                              DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                            HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                      WASHINGTON, DC




                                                                             AFI91-203_AFGM3

                                                                                  19 August 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION __
MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: AF/SE
SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated
          Occupational Safety Instruction

        By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this AF Guidance Memorandum is reissued to
immediately change AFI 91-203. This AFGM supersedes AFI 91-203_AFGM2 that was issued
on 25 July 2013. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions
are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance
with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

       In advance of a rewrite of AFI 91-203, the Attachment to this Memorandum is updated to
provide guidance changes that are effective immediately. An asterisk (*) indicates newly revised
material.

         The Memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon incorporation of an Interim Change or rewrite of AFI 91-203, whichever
is earlier.




                                             KURT F. NEUBAUER, Maj Gen, USAF
                                             Chief of Safety

Attachment:
Guidance Changes
                                           Attachment

                                        Guidance Changes


The below changes to AFI 91-203, dated 15 June 2012, are effective immediately.


1.3.1. The Air Force publishes industrial and general ground safety guidance as Air Force
instructions, which implement OSHA standards. The use of this instruction covers hazards which
exist in a wide variety of situations and is therefore considered to be applied as a horizontal
standard, the same as OSHA does with 29 CFR 1910. Area-specific instructions and technical
data include other safety criteria. When AFOSH guidance or safety criteria does not cover a
situation, use non-Air Force standards, including national consensus standards, professional
safety and health standards, and other Federal agency standards. Air Force activities must
comply with OSHA requirements at all times unless the military-unique exemption applies
according to DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health Program. Note: AFOSH
guidance must be followed at all times. They implement parts of 29 CFR, and include additional
requirements not addressed by the OSHA standards. In addition, safety, fire prevention and
occupational health requirements in equipment technical orders (TO) must be followed at all
times.

4.14.8. Is PPE provided and used when needed to protect the hands and feet of workers involved
in manual materials handling activities? Reference 4.7.1

4.14.9. Are wheeled hand trucks and dollies loaded so the cargo is stable and the loads won't
slip, shift or fall? Reference 4.9.1.5

4.14.10. Is the rated capacity on all lever operated hoists permanently and conspicuously marked
and easily visible? Reference 4.9.3.1.1

4.14.11. Are hoists equipped with a device (ratchet and pawl or load brake) that prevents a
suspended load from self-lowering and ensures loads are only lowered by operation of the hoist
lever? Reference 4.9.3.1.2

4.14.12. Are hoists inspected daily or prior to each use for items such as loose or worn parts,
cracked or broken welds, deformed hooks or chain, and bent or deformed pawls? Reference
4.9.3.2

4.14.13. Is an annual inspection accomplished on all MHE? Reference 4.9.3.3

4.14.14. Are identification tags attached to hoists indicating date of inspection, date of proof
test, capacity of hoist and identification number of hoist? Reference 4.9.3.4

4.14.15. Do hoist users maintain records of all tests? Reference 4.9.3.5.1
4.14.16. Are only approved lifting devices like slings used to lift loads? Reference 4.9.3.6.2
4.14.17. Do material handlers remove finger rings and jewelry prior to working with materials
or moving machinery? Reference 4.11.6

4.14.18. Are materials neatly stacked and the height limited to minimize the possibility for the
materials to fall or collapse? Reference 4.13.1

4.14.19. Delete.

5.2. Scraps and Combustible Waste. Provide sufficient metal or noncombustible containers
with self-closing lids for disposal or recycling of combustible wastes, rags or other items
contaminated with combustible or flammable materials. These containers shall be marked IAW
AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, and AFI 90-821, Hazardous Communications. Dispose of
contents IAW approved hazardous waste disposal procedures. Contact the installation
environmental management office for guidance. Ground areas around facilities where liquids are
stored, handled or used shall be kept free of weeds, trash or other unnecessary combustible
materials.

5.3. Combustible Materials. In industrial operating areas where flammable or combustible
liquids and other combustible materials, to include non-soiled excelsior (fine wood shavings),
straw, recyclable cardboard or paper, are used or stored, combustible materials shall be kept to a
minimum, stored in covered metal containers and disposed of daily. This requirement is
applicable when storage of flammable and combustible liquids exceeds:

5.3.1. 60 gallon capacity in fixed tanks.

5.3.2. 660 gallon capacity in portable tanks.

5.3.3. 793 gallon capacity in intermediate bulk containers.

5.9.7. Noncombustible materials shall be neatly kept in designated cabinets with their contents
plainly marked).

5.9.8. Clothing lockers shall be maintained in a clean, orderly condition. Apparel not needed to
perform official duties shall be stored in lockers. Objects shall not be stored on top of or under
clothing lockers and no flammable liquids shall be stored in lockers.

5.9.9. Machinery and equipment shall be kept clean of excess grease and oil and free of
excessive dust. Pressure gauges and visual displays shall be kept clean, visible and serviceable at
all times. Drip pans and wheeled or stationary containers shall be cleaned and emptied at the end
of each shift.

5.9.10. Certain cleaning compounds used in housekeeping activities may pose a hazard to
workers. To protect eyes, skin and clothing from these compounds, workers shall wear (as
required) safety glasses, face shields, aprons and gloves. Installation Ground Safety office and
BE shall be consulted with questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional
guidance.

5.9.11. All surfaces shall be maintained as free as practicable of accumulations of dust, lead,
chromium, cadmium or any other foreign particles. Floors shall be kept clean. Spills shall be
cleaned up as soon as possible.

5.9.12. Delete.

5.9.13. Delete.

6.2.3. Health Care Facilities. Facility managers and/or safety officers of health care occupancies
shall have in effect a written fire plan that addresses appropriate staff response to a fire
emergency and appropriate education and training for all elements of the fire plan. The plan will
address facility-wide needs in response to fire, area-specific needs for all areas, training for all
staff, employees and volunteers, and appropriate training for other non-staff personnel required
to participate in the fire plan. This fire plan shall be approved by the Installation Fire Chief.
Facility managers shall ensure fire exit drills are conducted IAW NFPA 101.

6.2.4.7. Visual Inspection. Managers and supervisors at all levels shall ensure a visual inspection
is performed and documented monthly for all fire extinguishers under their control.
Extinguishers with discrepancies shall be removed from service until repaired. This inspection
includes:

7.2.1.7.6. Newly constructed guard railings shall consist of securely mounted top rails,
intermediate rails and posts. The top rail vertical height shall be 42 inches, nominal, from the
upper surface of the top rail to the floor, platform, runway or ramp level. The intermediate rail
shall be approximately halfway (minimum of 21 inches high) between the top rail and the floor,
platform, runway or ramp.

7.5.2.7. Personnel Training. Personnel who use ladders at any working height shall be adequately
trained in the care and use of different types of ladders. The supervisor or a designated trainer
shall conduct this training when a worker is first assigned. Refer to paragraph 7.4.6 for additional
information on ladder training. Information presented during safety briefings shall satisfy the
periodic training requirement. All training shall include hands-on instruction to include
inspection of ladders for defects, possible electrocution hazards, proper positioning and
placement of ladders for various job sites. Training shall be documented IAW instructions in AFI
91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program (paper or electronic system may be
used).

7.7.59. Are personnel who use ladders adequately trained by the supervisor in the care and use
of different type ladders when a worker is first assigned? Reference 7.5.2.7

7.7.60. Are ladders stored in a way that provides easy access for inspection and permits their
safe withdrawal for use? Reference 7.5.2.5.3
7.7.61. Are wood ladders stored in a location free from exposure to the elements and excessive
heat or dampness? Reference 7.5.2.5.3

8.9.7. Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCI) shall be used on all 125-volt, single-phase, 15-,
20-, and 30-ampere receptacle outlets at job sites where the receptacles are not part of the
building/structure permanent wiring. Receptacles on a two-wire, single-phase portable or
vehicle-mounted electrical generator rated not more than 5 kilowatts (kW), where electrical
generator conductors are insulated from the generator frame and other grounded surfaces, shall
be permitted without GFCI protection. Receptacles shall be located outside wet process areas or
protected by a GFCI. To protect large areas, GFCI breakers shall be located in the circuit panel.
125-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere receptacles installed in locations below shall include
GFCI protection. See NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, Article 210.8, for exceptions, i.e., for
locations where GFCIs are not required.

8.9.7.2.6. Sinks – where receptacles are installed within six (6) feet of the outside edge of the
sink.

8.9.7.2.7. Indoor wet locations.

8.9.7.2.8. Locker rooms with associated showering facilities.

8.9.7.2.9. Garages, service bays and similar areas where electrical diagnostic equipment,
electrical hand tools or portable lighting equipment are to be used.

8.9.9. Delete.

8.11.5.2. Supervisors shall consult with installation Ground Safety office to determine if
insulating matting is required in their areas of responsibility. This includes areas where potential
shock hazards exist and additional protection is needed, floor resistance is lowered due to
dampness and where high voltage (greater than 600 volts, nominal) may be encountered, such as
high voltage consoles. Areas with electrical repair or test benches (shops), motors or equipment
and control panels require insulating matting.

8.12. Emergency Equipment (Electrical Safety). In addition to electrical PPE provided to
workers, functional managers shall ensure emergency equipment is available at each operating
location where maintenance is performed on energized circuits. High voltage is defined as over
600 volts, nominal. Equipment variations depend on local conditions and the squadron
commander or functional manager may add additional items. The equipment may be displayed
on a board, stored in an unlocked cabinet or made available in a portable kit, and shall be situated
in a conspicuous and prominent location at each site, well marked and readily accessible.
Equipment shall be protected against chemical, mechanical or environmental deterioration and
shall be inspected or tested for serviceability. Emergency equipment shall consist of:

8.12.8. High voltage insulated lineman’s rubber electrical gloves (both inner and outer gloves) –
if rescuer(s) is(are) likely to contact live wires, conductors or current carrying parts while
performing rescue. Voltage rating shall be suitable for voltages encountered in the work area.
Note 1: Electrical gloves shall be checked before use IAW UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety O
& M, and American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) F496-85, Specification for In-service
Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves, and shall be tested and marked with the next test due
date.
Note 2: High voltage is defined as greater than 600 volts, nominal.

8.18.2.3. Arc flash protection shall be provided for all Air Force operations exposing personnel
to energized parts greater than 50 volts. Protective clothing required, if any, shall be based on the
procedures outlined in UFC 3-560-01 and AFI 32-1064.

8.19.12. Are only qualified operators who are designated in writing by the supervisor allowed to
work on electrical installations and equipment? Reference 8.9.1

8.19.13. Delete.

10.4. Lifting Requirements. Procedures in Chapter 4, Manual Material Handling and Lifting
Techniques, shall be used when personnel lift heavy objects, such as files, books, paper, etc.
Team lifting shall be evaluated when the person doing the lifting (or their supervisor) considers
the item to be too heavy or awkward to lift safety, or the item or lifter is in an awkward position
or location. Use a dolly or other material handling equipment, if available, to move heavy or
awkward objects. Refer to Chapter 4 prior to using material handling equipment, as required.

11.3.8. Do all outside activities cease and do personnel seek adequate shelter during a lightning
warning? Reference 11.2.3.2

13.8. Additional Rescue Guidance. Where non-Air Force professional rescue agencies cannot
promptly rescue a fallen AF worker, the installation Ground Safety office and Fire Emergency
Services (FES) Flight may establish training for fire protection workers and adequate installation
personnel as authorized or competent rescuers. Training shall be documented IAW AFI 91-202.
Coordination with the installation Fire Chief is required to determine if the FES Flight is able to
support a fall rescue operation.

14.4.8.3. Arc-Flash Resistant Clothing. A flash hazard analysis (FHA) shall be performed for all
Air Force operations exposing personnel to exposed energized parts at 50 or more volts IAW
NFPA 70E, Electrical Safety in Workplace, Section 130.3, and UFC 3-560-02, Electrical Safety.
Protective clothing required, if any, shall be based on the FHA performed.

14.5.2. Upon request, the supervisor, with the assistance of the installation Ground Safety office,
shall inspect areas with electrical facilities and determine if insulating matting is required for
worker protection. Typical examples of areas where insulating matting is required include
locations where potential shock hazards exist and additional resistance is required, floor
resistance is lowered due to dampness, high voltages (greater than 600 volts, nominal) may be
encountered, such as high voltage consoles, and areas with electrical repair or test benches
(shops), motors or equipment and control panels.
14.6.2. Do supervisors ensure required PPE job safety training is documented as required by
AFI 91-202? Reference 14.3.2.1

16.4.3.1.2. For lines rated over 50 kV, the minimum clearance between lines and any part of the
aerial lift shall be at least 10 feet (305 cm) plus 4 inches (10 cm) for each 10 kilovolt over 50 kV,
or twice the length of the line insulator, but never less than 10 feet (305 cm).

16.4.4. Proximity Warning Devices. Proximity warning devices may be installed on aerial
platforms but will not release the operator from assuring safe clearance IAW paragraph 16.4.3.

16.5.1. Work platforms with work levels four (4) feet or higher and accessed by a ladder or
stairway at an angle over 60 degrees, shall have guardrails, midrails and toeboards IAW
paragraph 16.4.6.10 on all three (3) sides of the work platform, not including work platform
access opening. Refer to ANSI 92.3, paragraph 4.12.3.

16.5.3.8. Self-propelled elevating work platforms shall be in the lowered position prior to being
moved. Manually-propelled mobile work platforms shall not be moved with personnel on the
working platform unless allowed by manufacturer’s instructions. Locking pins or other devices,
as required, shall be in place before anyone is allowed to ascend the stairs or ladder. Tools and
equipment left on the work platform while the unit is moved shall rest securely on the floor of
the platform and be protected by a rail and toeboard IAW paragraph 16.4.6.10.

16.5.11.6. Mobile work platforms shall be operationally inspected IAW TO 00-20-1 by the user
daily, before use, for serviceability and leaks. Items to be inspected will include brakes, jacks,
wheel locks, cables, locking pins, hydraulic systems, anchor connections, railings and removable
attachments, including bolts, pins or other locking devices and overall equipment condition.
Maintenance work stands shall have at least two operational brakes, locks or permanently
installed jacks. At least two brakes shall be set and all wheel casters locked before any action,
i.e., maintenance, inspections, etc., is performed. Wheel chocks may be used in conjunction with
these requirements. Vehicle chocks may be constructed or locally manufactured IAW TO 00-25-
172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, Section 4.1.2. Platforms shall
be locked when not in use to avoid rolling down slanted surfaces or being moved by wind.
Stands with defects shall be tagged as unserviceable. Inspection should be documented on AFTO
Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record. Note: A daily inspection is not required for
days the stand is not used.

16.6.1. Do operators of aerial lifts near electric power lines maintain proper clearances?
Reference 16.4.3

16.6.25. Are work platforms secured against movement when not being transported? Reference
16.5.11.5

18.5.2.1.1. Supervisors will ensure either a fixed barrier guard, safeguard device or combination
of both is installed and used on every operation when the opening between the die (tool) and
base (anvil) is more than ¼ inch. The functional manager and installation Ground Safety office
must approve guarding by location. The use of hand-feeding tools, regardless of size, does not
replace a guard or device. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212 and 1910.217 for additional safe distance
and maximum opening requirements.

18.5.2.21.4. Belt dressing should not be applied when the belt or rope is in motion. However, if
necessary, it shall be applied where belts leave the pulleys, not where they approach them.

21.3.3.1. AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout Tag. The AF Form 983 and equivalent
DoD and commercial tags are authorized for lockout purposes and shall be used for lockout
situations. This tag shall be placed on equipment that has been removed from service for
maintenance purposes. All employees shall be instructed that these tags indicate that equipment
is locked out for maintenance.

21.4. LOTO Procedures. Only authorized workers shall perform LOTO procedures. Personnel
directly affected by the operation or shutdown of the equipment or machine shall be notified of
LOTO devices. Notification shall be given before controls are applied and after they are
removed. Refer to paragraph 21.7 for sample procedures. Procedures for applying locks or tags
shall include and be performed in the following order. Note: If not specifically called for by
governing directives for the task being performed, it is recommended that workers be assigned in
teams (minimum of two [2] people), one serving as a safety observer.

21.4.2.7.2. When the equipment to be worked on does not have normal controls, e.g., on/off
switch, etc., use the following procedure for isolation confirmation. Test potential energy sources
using appropriately rated and calibrated instruments or testers. Instruments used to test voltage,
pressure or temperature shall be checked for proper operation both before and after use. If the
authorized worker is not qualified to test the energy being isolated, he or she shall ensure the
energy is tested by a qualified person.

21.4.2.9. Step Nine – Before restoring machines and equipment to service, the supervisor or
authorized employee will:

21.4.2.9.1. Ensure all personnel, tools and maintenance or servicing equipment have removed
and guards have been reinstalled.

21.4.2.9.2. Notify personnel the locks or tags have been removed and equipment is in service.

21.4.2.9.3. Remove all locks or tags and restore the energy isolating device to the ‘ON’ position.

21.6.1. Self-Assessments. Shop LOTO self-assessments shall be conducted by an authorized
worker or supervisor annually, to ensure compliance with all program elements. Self-
assessments shall be designed to correct any deviations or inadequacies observed. Refer to
Figure 21.10 for a sample assessment sheet. The assessment shall be documented, provide for a
demonstration of the procedures and include, as a minimum:
                  EQUIPMENT SPECIFIC LOTO CHECKLIST
                  Figure 21.9. Equipment Specific LOTO Checklist. This is a tool and shall not replace a written LOTO program.



A. Equipment Identification:                                                                                                    Location:


B. This procedure covers servicing and maintenance of machines and equipment in which “unexpected” energization or start up of the machines or equipment,
or release of stored energy could injure employees. Authority: 29 CFR 1910.147(c)(4)

SCOPE OF THIS PROCEDURE:

C. HAZARDOUS ENERGY TYPE (Hazard): (Check All That Apply)


 1. Electrical: (shock, electrocution, arc flash)             2b. Mechanical: ( crush, drop, punch, pinch, grab, cut,      3.    Chemical: Explosion, Fire, Corrosion, Oxidization, Toxin,
                                                                rotate )                                                          Asphyxiation, Mutation, Instability
       a. Voltage: AC < 30 or DC < 50 volts
                                                              Include: Springs, Platforms (raised), Pendula, Bungees,
                                                                 Flywheels
                                                                                                                           4.    Radiation: Electro-magnetic, Microwave, Infrared, LASER,
                                                              2c. Vacuum: < 1 Atmosphere (crush, whipping, noise,                  Ultraviolet, Ionizing.
       b. Voltage: AC or DC but ≤ 600 volts                     shrapnel)

                                                              Include: Reservoirs, Receivers, Tanks
                                *                                                                                          5.    Other: Specify:
       c. Voltage: > 600 volts
                                                              2d.   Thermal, High temperature: > 120° F surface
                                                                    temperature     (burns)

                                                              2e. Thermal, Cryogenic: Unguarded delivery line
       d. High current: > 25 amperes at any voltage
                                                                or conduction to a part where exposure potential exists,
                                                                potential contact with a cryogenic liquid. (extreme
 Include: Capacitors and Batteries
                                                                freezing, asphyxiation)
 IAW AFI32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices

 2a. Pneumatic / Hydraulic: > 1 Atmosphere which results in
   hazardous energy (crush, whipping, noise, shrapnel)

 Include: Reservoirs, Receivers, Tanks
D.    JOB SPECIFIC LOCKOUT INFORMATION

D.1   Specific Lockout Locations     Lockout Procedure Order          D.2   Dissipate stored energy at these points:
       Identification                  Location/Isolation Device




                                                                      D.2   Block these parts/remove linkages:




E. NAMES OF AUTHORIZED WORKERS PERFORMING THIS LOCKOUT:            F. NAMES OF PERSONNEL AFFECTED BY THIS LOCKOUT:




G. VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:                                      H. SAFETY MEASURES/SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: (i.e. PPE)




I. LIST ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED:
J.      BASIC LOCKOUT PROCEDURES

                                                     K. RELEASE FROM LOCKOUT/TAGOUT
 1.            Preparation.


                                                      1.      Preparation and Notification.
 2.            Notification.

                                                      2.      Removal of Additional Devices.

 3.            Shutdown.

                                                      3.      Remove ALL Locks and Tags.
 4.            Isolation/Verification.

                                                     Notes/Comments:
 5             LOTO Device Application.


 6.            Additional Measures.



 7.            Isolation Confirmation.


 8.            Keep LOTO Devices in Place.

L. SIGNATURE

Signature:                                   Date:
       Checklist Instructions:




A.
      EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION: Identify equipment to be serviced or maintained and list location (i.e., Site, Bldg, Rm.).


B.
      SCOPE: Write brief description of work activity.



C.
      IDENTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS ENERGY: Identify all hazardous energy sources associated with the equipment to be serviced or maintained including those that
      may not require LOTO for activity being performed.




D1.   JOB SPECIFIC LOCKOUT OR TAGOUT INFORMATION. Identify and state location of specific hazardous energy sources associated with equipment that requires
      lockout or tagout to ensure personnel performing maintenance or service and personnel working near the equipment are protected from unexpected release of
      hazardous energy.


D2.
      List locations where stored energy requires de-energization.


D3.
      List parts/equipment/components that require blocking.


D4.
      List any other related system that may require shutdown during maintenance or servicing activity.


E.
      NAMES OF AUTHORIZED WORKERS PERFORMING THIS LOCKOUT: List names of all authorized workers performing LOTO (attach continuation sheet, if needed).

F.
     NAMES OF PERSONNEL AFFECTED BY THIS LOCKOUT: List names of personnel affected when performing this LOTO.



G.
     VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: Specific requirements for testing a machine or piece of equipment to determine and verify effectiveness of LOTO devices and other
     energy control measures.



H.
     SAFETY MEASURES/SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: List any special safety concerns associated with this work activity (i.e., electrically rated gloves, hearing protection,
     safety glasses, face shields, etc.).



I.
     ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: (Optional) List any additional information not identified elsewhere on this form (i.e. special sequencing, reference manuals, reference
     other TOs, etc.)


J.
     BASIC LOCKOUT PROCEDURES. Complete steps 1-8, as applicable.


K.
     RELEASE FROM LOCKOUT/TAGOUT: Complete steps 1-3, as applicable.


L.
     SIGNATURE: Signature of Authorized Worker completing form.


      RESTRICTIONS
      All workers shall comply with restrictions/limitations imposed on them while using LOTO.

      Authorized Workers shall perform the LOTO activities as prescribed in this procedure

      Only Authorized Workers are permitted to perform lockout activities prescribed by this procedure.

      This procedure shall be used during all activities involving maintenance (repair) or servicing (adjustments, modifications, cleaning, or inspections) of equipment. No
      worker shall attempt to start/energize or use/operate locked out equipment.

      If the designated Authorized Worker is replaced, relieved, or augmented, the new Authorized Worker(s) shall place his/her own lock & tag on the lockout devices
      before the relieved worker removes his/hers.
No worker shall provide locks/tags nor vouchsafe for another worker for any or all isolation points at any time.

If the Authorized Worker leaves sight of the job, even momentarily, that worker shall re-verify the lockout and zero energy state of the equipment before resuming
work.

In an emergency, the supervisor shall apply his lock over that of the Authorized Worker until the Authorized Worker can verify a safe state for the operation

In the event of undetermined (long-term) absence of an Authorized Worker who has not released the equipment from LOTO, the supervisor may remove the lock.

Removal shall be performed under the provisions of, paragraph 21.4.5., Release from Lockout/Tagout.

If this procedure is part of a larger, more general procedure, energy sources that are part of the larger procedure, but not applicable to this procedure, shall be
identified and listed, with an explanation of why they are not a hazard and not applicable or relevant to this procedure.

*
    Lockout of High Energy Electrical Sources

High energy electrical sources (over 600 volts) require special caution and attention to detail. The following steps are in addition to those required for a normal
lockout whenever equipment connected to high energy electrical sources is to be worked on.

1.         Workers should be assigned in teams (minimum of two [2] people) whenever high energy electrical sources are to be locked out.
2.         The high energy source shall be isolated from the equipment by at least two (2) energy isolating devices placed electrically in series unless otherwise
           authorized by URC 3-560-01. Both devices shall be locked open and tagged out before work begins. Each member of the team may elect to place one
           lock or two.
3.         Standard voltmeters shall not to be used to determine that the high energy source has been disconnected. Appropriately rated high energy non-contact
           voltage detectors or phasing voltmeters, i.e., tools suitable for use with “hot sticks,” with both audible and visual indications are the preferred instruments.
4.         After both locks are placed (following lockout procedure outlined above), the LINE side of the second energy isolating device shall be grounded. The
           grounds shall remain in place for the entire duration of the work.
5.         Workers shall ensure all stored energy, particularly from stray capacitance (in cables, lightning arrestors, power factor correction capacitors, etc.), is
           safely discharged from all parts of the circuit to be locked out. Grounds shall be in place on all conductors in the work area whenever work is in progress.
           If grounds are removed for any reason, they shall be replaced before continuing work.
6.         When removing locks from a high energy source, at least two (2) people shall independently perform complete inspections of the work area, the
           equipment worked on, and the entire circuit from the first lock to the equipment. All grounds shall be removed, all tools and parts stored, all areas clean,
           and all covers and other safety devices installed and secured.
22.5.2. Containers. Containers and portable tanks shall meet handling, storage and dispensing
requirements specified in this instruction for the product concerned. Refer to NFPA 30 for
additional guidance. Tanks and vats shall be installed so rupture or overflow is contained or
controlled through dikes, sumps, etc., per 29 CFR 1910.106, Flammable and Combustible
Liquids.

23.2.4.6. Evaluate potential worker exposure related to confined spaces IAW AFI 48-145,
Occupational and Environmental Health Program.

23.5.6.2. Non-permit confined spaces will be reviewed prior to each entry, but no less than
annually, to determine if changed conditions in or around the space could have introduced a
hazard that is immediately dangerous to life or health, thus changing the classification of the
space to permit-required. Well-ventilated, frequently-entered non-permit confined spaces such as
aircraft engine inlets/intakes/exhausts and avionics bays can normally rely on a visual review
prior to each entry, unless a changed condition in or around those spaces could have introduced
an atmospheric or other non-visual hazard, in which case, instrumented testing is warranted.

23.9. MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces (Reference Table 23.2 below). The
following figure identifies confined spaces contained within each aircraft weapons system as
defined by the MAJCOM Ground Safety office. This is not an all-inclusive list and is subject to
change based on modifications in procedures and weapons system design. The all-inclusive list
shall be maintained by each MAJCOM Ground office for each installation under its purview and
by the installation CSPT. Warning: Proper classification of a confined space depends heavily
on the activity that occurs within the space. Therefore, while confined spaces with no hazards
inherent within or introduced into the space are categorized as Non-Permit Required (NPR) in
the table below, all have the potential to contain a hazard that could change the classification to
Permit-Required.

23.9.1. If activity in the space introduces or generates any hazards, the installation CSPT must
be notified to assess the classification. The installation CSPT may upgrade the classification to
PR for that activity if there is potential to create a hazard.

23.9.2. Some confined spaces contain fuel lines that are normally intact and not designed to
release fuel into the space. In general, most of these spaces are classified as NPR in the table
below on the basis that leaks of fuel are a rare event and the entrant would be able to detect the
presence of fuel prior to entry. If there is any indication of fuel leakage (odor, visual evidence),
the space must be upgraded to PR. Entrants are strongly encouraged to sample air for fuel vapor
before entry into NPR confined spaces containing fuel lines as an additional means to verify no
leakage has occurred. Check with BE for assistance in selecting fuel vapor detection equipment.

23.9.3. In some confined spaces, lines containing nitrogen in liquid or gaseous form pass
through the space. These lines are normally intact and not designed to intentionally release
nitrogen into the space. In general, most of these spaces are classified as NPR in the table below
on the basis that nitrogen leaks are a rare event and the entrant can verify the integrity of the
nitrogen distribution system prior to entry. Any evidence of potential nitrogen leakage, e.g.,
pressure drops or maintenance history, drives an immediate upgrade of the space to PR.
Additionally, due to the odorless and colorless properties of nitrogen, entrants into NPR confined
spaces where nitrogen lines or bottles are present must continuously monitor for oxygen levels
while in the space to verify no leakage has occurred. Refer to TO 1-1-3, Inspection and Repair of
Aircraft Integral Tanks, and Fuel Cells, for additional guidance.

23.11.2. Does the commander and/or functional manager ensure personnel who support the
permit-required confined space program are properly trained, equipped and qualified? Reference
23.2.7.2

23.11.13. Do functional managers or commanders, in coordination with the CSPT, ensure the
organization’s confined spaces are evaluated and tested prior to being classified? Reference
23.3.2

23.11.22. Does the entry supervisor ensure a qualified on-site rescue team is present during all
known IDLH space entries? Reference 23.5.3.9

23.11.27. Is an AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, obtained by workers prior to performing
hot riveting, welding, cutting, burning or heating operations within a confined space? Reference
23.5.5

24.2.5.1. Compressed air shall not be used for cleaning purposes except when regulated to 30 psi
or less, and then only when effective chip guarding, air diffuser, and face shield and safety
goggles are used.

24.5.1. Strict adherence to standards ensures the safety of parked aircraft. Specific parking
locations shall be designated for each aircraft IAW AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements.
Generally, distances between parked aircraft, wingtip to wingtip, shall allow immediate access of
emergency vehicles and permit free movement of equipment and materials. Refer to AFMAN
32-1084 for specific aircraft wingtip distances. Also see UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport
Planning and Design. Refer to AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, and TO 11A-1-33,
Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft, for parking explosives loaded aircraft.

24.14.9. Roll-up Hangar Doors. Roll-up hangar doors shall be maintained in good operating
condition with door tracks free of debris and obstructions to allow smooth operation. Operators
shall conduct a visual inspection of door path and track-way and correct any discrepancies before
operating door. Individuals shall remain clear of door path while door is in motion. Hangar
auxiliary service roll-up doors, to include tow vehicle exit doors, shall meet the following
requirements:

24.14.9.2. Powered roll-up hangar doors equipped with one touch open or close buttons shall
have a crush sensor on the bottom of the door installed and operational. Note: Manual roll-up
hangar doors or powered roll-up doors equipped with dead man switches do not require crush
sensors.

24.15.1.3. Face shield and safety goggles are required when using compressed air for cleaning. All
shop and aircraft maintenance personnel authorized to use air compressors shall be trained in
operation and maintenance of air compressors. Compressed air for general cleaning purposes shall be
limited to less than 30 psi. Effective chip guarding shall be provided and have a finger-actuated press
(on)/release (off) control. Compressed air shall not be used for cleaning benches, floors, work areas,
aircraft interior, clothing or exposed body surfaces. Aircraft pitot-static systems shall not be cleaned
with compressed air to prevent instrument diaphragm damage. Refer to paragraph 24.2.5 for
additional information on cleaning with compressed air.

24.16.7.3. No stand will be used unless all brakes are set and all wheel casters locked. Wheel will be
locked either 90 or 180 degrees from the caster lock pin if it interferes with the wheel brake handle.
Wheel chocks may be used to supplement these requirements. Stands will be locked when not in use
to avoid rolling down slanted surfaces or being moved by the wind when outdoors. Chocks will be
constructed or locally manufactured IAW TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static
Grounding/Bonding.

24.16.7.4. Self-propelled elevating work platforms shall be in the lowered position prior to being
moved. Manually-propelled mobile work platforms shall not be moved with personnel on the
working platform unless allowed by manufacturer’s instructions. Locking pins or other devices,
as required, shall be in place before anyone is allowed to ascend the stairs or ladder. Tools and
equipment left on the work platform while the unit is moved shall rest securely on the floor of
the platform and be protected by a rail and toeboard IAW paragraph 16.4.6.10.

24.18.36. Are passengers prevented from riding on tow tractors unless adequate seats are
provided for that purpose? Reference 24.13.21

24.18.37. Are pintle assemblies and towing connections secured with a pintle hook safety
locking device or cotter pin that will positively lock towing connections? Reference 24.7.16

24.18.55. Are locking pins installed, hydraulic pressure released, platform eased down onto the
locks and the hydraulic valve closed before anyone is allowed on the maintenance stand?
Reference 24.16.7.4

25.5.2. Fire extinguishers with a rating of at least 2A:20BC shall be installed in shop areas
located so an extinguisher is available within 50 feet. The number of extinguishers depends upon
the size and layout of the facility. The installation FES Flight shall be consulted for more
detailed information on the type, selection, installation, inspection, maintenance and hydrostatic
testing of portable fire extinguishers. Fire extinguishers will:

25.12.2.3.11. All controls shall be tested by the operator at the start of a new shift. If any
controls do not operate properly, they shall be adjusted or repaired before the operation is
continued.

25.18.1.1. Explosive Gases. The most common sewer gases are methane, carbon monoxide and
hydrogen sulfide. These gases, when mixed with air and a spark, can explode with great force.
Such explosions are most common and dangerous in confined spaces such as tanks, underground
lift stations or manholes. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is generally encountered more frequently in
wastewater systems than any other hazardous gas. In light concentrations, it has a foul odor
similar to rotten eggs. After continued exposure, H2S will over-stimulate the olfactory sensors
and will no longer register as an odor. It is heavier than air and usually collects in low areas.
Methane is lighter than air and will escape with proper ventilation. Closed tanks and tight rooms
are the greatest danger areas. They shall be tested for oxygen and methane or H2S with approved
meters.

25.18.1.5. Federal and some state agencies set exposure limits to protect workers against
exposure to hazardous substances. The Air Force incorporates the most appropriate limits as the
Occupational and Environmental Exposure Limits (OEEL). OEELs are the Air Force limits on
the amount or concentration of a substance in air. OEELs may also contain a skin designation.
Contact BE for questions related to OEELs.

26.3.5. Do supervisory personnel ensure operators have PPE such as head, eye and ear
protectors, gloves, respirators, etc.? Reference 26.2.3.1

26.3.11. Are all guards secured in place and kept in place during machine use? Reference
26.2.3.2

26.3.12. Are items not permanently installed, such as tools, radios, water coolers, etc., secured
so they do not pose a hazard to operators or equipment should the tractor malfunction or
overturn? Reference 26.2.3.3

26.3.13. Does the operator prohibit other riders from riding on the tractor? Reference 26.2.3.4

26.3.14. Does operator clean the windshield and other transparent surfaces of ice, snow, dirt,
grass and other obstructions from tractors equipped with cabs to ensure clear vision prior to use?
Reference 26.2.3.5

26.3.15. Does the operator ensure cracked or severely scratched windshield or transparent
surfaces for vision are reported and repaired or replaced? Reference 26.2.3.5

26.3.16. Does the operator keep personnel clear of operating machinery or attachments?
Reference 26.2.3.6

26.3.17. Does the operator stop the engine, disconnect the power sources, and wait for all
machine movement to stop before servicing, adjusting, or cleaning the equipment (except where
the machine must be running to properly service or maintain the equipment)? Reference 26.2.3.7

26.3.18. Do mowing machine operators refrain from attempting to mow on slopes that exceed 4
inches (20-25°) of drop or rise per foot of travel? Reference 26.2.3.8

26.3.19. When using a sickle bar attachment for mowing, does the operator always position the
sickle bar on the up-slope side of the tractor? Reference 26.2.3.8

26.3.20. Does the operator park the tractor on a level surface, lower the attachment so it rests on
the surface, place the transmission in low or reverse after the engine has stopped (automatic
transmission in “park”) and shut the engine off, before the operator dismounts the vehicle?
Reference 26.2.3.9
26.3.21. For flex-winged mowers, does the operator ensure the appendages are folded in the
“up” position and the locking pins are securely in place when parking? Reference 26.2.3.9

26.3.23. Are all ROPS-equipped tractors fitted with seatbelts? Reference 26.2.7

26.3.24. Have all tractors and attachments been subjected to a noise hazard survey and those
whose noise level exceeds 85 dBA placarded with noise hazard warning? Reference 26.2.8

26.3.25. Are approved “Slow Moving Vehicle” emblems and flashing amber light units installed
on agricultural tractors used at night in high traffic areas? Reference 26.2.9

26.3.26. Are all power takeoff shafts shielded? Reference 26.2.10.1

26.3.27. Are guards capable of withstanding 250 pounds of downward or inward force?
Reference 26.2.10.2

26.3.28. Are guards free of burrs and sharp edges or projections and securely fastened to the
unit? Reference 26.2.10.3

26.3.29. Are all guards that were removed for servicing and maintenance reinstalled prior to
placing units in use? Reference 26.2.10.4

26.3.30. Are batteries, fuel tanks, oil reservoirs, and coolant systems constructed and located or
sealed to assure that spillage will not occur in the event of an upset? Reference 26.2.11

26.3.31. For flight line operations, does the operator ensure a “Slow Moving Vehicle” placard is
affixed to the rear of the tractor, have a radio and keep in contact with the tower at all times?
Reference 26.2.12

27.3.13. An AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, (see Figure 27.1) is required whenever
there is cutting ,welding or brazing being accomplished outside of the designated shop area. The
directions for filling out and signing the AF Form 592 are contained in Table 27.2. The hot
work permit must be obtained from the installation FES Flight prior to starting welding
operations. The requirements for usage of the AF Form 592 are outlined in Table 27.2. Note:
BE assistance and coordination may be required, i.e., BE survey report, PPE
listing/recommendation, etc.

27.5.1. Inside Areas. A specific area shall be designated and approved by the installation FES
Flight, Ground Safety office and BE for welding and cutting operations. It shall be of fire
resistant or noncombustible construction appropriate for its hazard classification, free of
combustible and flammable materials, and segregated from adjacent areas. This area shall be
exempt from requiring an AF Form 592 on a daily basis.

27.19.35. Is only approved respirator equipment used when working in atmospheres of
hazardous concentrations of airborne contaminants? Reference 27.7.8
27.19.36. Do all welding helmets meet 29 CFR 1910.252, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing -
General Requirements, requirements? Reference 27.7.9.1

27.19.37. When two or more welders are exposed to each other's arc, are filter lens goggles
worn under the welders‘ helmets to protect them from the harmful rays? Reference 27.7.9.2

27.19.38. Are goggles or other suitable eye protection used during all gas welding or oxygen
cutting operations? Reference 27.7.9.3

27.19.39. Is eye protection in the form of suitable tinted goggles or spectacles provided for
brazing operations? Reference 27.7.9.5

27.19.40. Are workers trained to arrange helmets to protect the face, neck and ears from the arc's
radiant energy? Reference 27.7.10.2

27.19.41. Are ventilated goggles used to prevent fogging of the lenses? Reference 27.7.10.5

27.19.42. Are hand-held shields, designed to shield the face and eyes, prohibited from use?
Reference 27.7.10.10

27.19.51. Is the fire guard informed to stop the welding operation if a hazardous condition
develops? Reference 27.10.16.10

28.19.65. Are only non-copper beryllium spark-resistant tools used during cleaning operations?
Reference 28.13.3

28.19.68. Are only properly trained, qualified and physically-fit personnel permitted to work
around electrostatic apparatus? Reference 28.14.7

28.19.69. Are warning signs posted designating the spray process zone as dangerous ?
Reference 28.14.8

28.19.70. Is a red “ON” light installed in the interlocked power transformer circuit? Reference
28.14.8

30.4.2.3. Hazard Communication Training. All workers who may be potentially exposed to
chemical hazards during the course of work shall require hazard communication training IAW
AFI 90-821 upon initial assignment and thereafter when a new hazard or chemical is introduced
into the work area/shop or a worker is assigned new or different tasks with new hazards. Prior to
any task requiring the use of or exposure to hazardous materials, safety precautions for materials
shall be covered in the pre-task safety briefing.

30.7. High Voltage. High voltage is defined as greater than 600 volts (root-mean-square
[RMS]), nominal, or greater. However, much lower voltage can be lethal. The design and
development of all military electronic equipment shall provide fail-safe features for safety of
workers during the installation, operation, maintenance or interchanging of a complete
equipment assembly or component part. Operators and technicians shall not attempt to adjust any
electronic equipment when there is a possibility of injury from unprotected high voltage.
Adjustments on operating high voltage equipment, other than those specified by TO or
manufacturer‘s manuals, shall only be authorized by the unit commander. The unit commander
shall consider all operational requirements, TOs, manufacturer‘s guidance, safety precautions
and emergency procedures before authorizing work to proceed. Workers using high voltage to
troubleshoot and/or test cables shall be instructed in the precautions necessary for their safety
and the safety of others. Workers shall be warned to stay clear while voltage is applied.

31.1.2. The battery shop, room or area shall be designed to eliminate certain hazards associated
with battery maintenance and shall conform to the specific requirements in this document and 29
CFR 1910.178, Powered Industrial Trucks, 29 CFR 1926.403, General Requirements
(Electrical), 29 CFR 1926.441, Batteries and Battery Charging, NFPA 70, National Electrical
Code, including Articles 480, Storage Batteries, and Chapter 5, Special Occupancies, which
includes Article 500, Hazardous (Classified) Locations, Article 501, Class I Locations, and
Article 503.14, Storage – Battery Charging Equipment. The installation Ground Safety office,
BE, Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight and Environmental Management office shall evaluate
and certify battery rooms, shops or areas to ensure they conform to safe design and operating
practices. Refer to the provisions of AFMAN 32-1084, paragraphs 7.6.1. through 7.6.5., for
additional guidance.

31.8.3. Use straps for lifting and carrying batteries. If straps cannot be used, exercise extreme
caution when lifting to prevent worker strain, particularly when removing batteries installed in
vehicles. When possible, use two people to handle batteries located in places that put a person in
an awkward position.

31.8.7. Vent Cap Maintenance. Vent caps are designed to help keep the electrolyte or chemical
paste within the battery and to keep dirt and other contaminants out. Vent caps shall be kept
clean and firmly in place to avoid electrolyte spray, unless authorized by the applicable TO.

31.8.8. Vehicle Battery Jump-Starting. Battery jump-starting procedures shall only be
accomplished by trained and qualified personnel. Follow TO guidance for proper jump-start
procedures. If not available, follow manufacturer‘s guidance. If manufacturer‘s guidance is not
available, follow steps in Figure 31.1, Jump-Start Diagram. Workers shall identify the positive
and negative terminals on both batteries. Improper connections may cause a large flaming spark
and cause both batteries to explode. Note: Workers shall NOT connect positive (+) to negative
(-) or negative (-) to positive (+) when jump-starting a vehicle. Jumper cables shall be grasped by
the insulated handles and not by the bare metal ends. Additionally, workers shall not place their
heads close to the battery when connecting jumper cables.

31.8.9. Exercise care when handling and storing batteries to prevent damage to the cases and to
avoid electrolyte spills. Caution: Use care when handling broken battery cases to avoid acid-
alkali burns from spilled electrolyte. When handling damaged batteries, follow specific
equipment TO maintenance procedures for damaged batteries.
31.8.10. The battery in most industrial trucks also serves as a counterweight for the carried load.
A replacement battery shall never be installed when its service weight is not within the range of
battery weights marked on the truck nameplate. A lighter weight battery could change the truck‘s
center of gravity and upset a loaded truck.

31.8.11. Batteries encased in steel trays have lifting holes for moving the battery. Lifting devices
shall be designed so vertical lifting stresses are confined to the battery tray. Lifting batteries with
two chains attached to a hoist at a single central point (to form a triangle with the battery) is
unsafe. Not only does the safe load capacity of a double sling decrease as the angle increases, but
the angular stress on the lifting ears of the battery may cause the chain hook to tear out of the
steel battery case. A properly insulated spreader bar, or other device as permitted by the
applicable TO or manufacturer‘s instructions, of ample size shall be used with any overhead
hoist.

31.8.12. Before a battery is removed from a truck or is recharged in a truck, the electrical circuit
of the truck shall be open, the battery unplugged from the truck and the brakes set or the wheels
chocked. When moving a battery to a recharging location by overhead crane, the battery shall not
be pulled or led by the battery cables. Personnel shall not stand under suspended loads.

31.8.13. When an enclosed/covered battery is charged, the cover of the steel tray of the battery
shall always be kept open throughout the entire recharging period. If a battery remains in the
truck for recharging, all battery compartment covers of the truck shall be kept open to help
promote cooling of the battery and release of the gases freed during the recharging process.
Excessive charging of batteries shall not be permitted, as hydrogen gas is generated. Batteries
shall not be disassembled when taken directly from the charger or worked on immediately after
being discharged under a heavy load. In either case, the battery may be off-gassing rapidly and
may explode if an ignition source is present.

31.8.14. The contact surface of mating plugs or connectors on vehicles/equipment, batteries and
chargers shall be maintained free of pitting or oxidation to prevent a high-resistance contact
condition. Such a condition can result in a decrease of voltage delivered to the truck, with
possible premature or sudden stopping of the vehicle. This could be a hazard if rapid withdrawal
from a hazardous situation is required. Any work on battery plug contacts shall include
precautions to avoid shorting out the battery.

31.8.15. Visual inspections are usually sufficient to determine the condition of contacts, which
shall be cleaned or replaced if they show evidence of oxidation or pitting. Excessive heating of
current-carrying parts indicates a poor electrical contact which shall be investigated.

31.10.13. Is jump-starting of vehicles only accomplished by qualified personnel? Reference
31.8.7

31.10.14. Do workers adhere to the Note against connecting positive (+) terminal to negative (-)
terminal and vice versa when jump-starting a vehicle? Reference 31.8.8.7
31.10.15. Do workers exercise care when handling broken battery cases to avoid the possibility
of acid-alkali burns from spilled electrolyte? Reference 31.8.8

31.10.16. Do workers ensure the electrical circuit of the vehicle/equipment is open, the battery is
unplugged from the vehicle/equipment and the brakes set or wheels chocked, before a battery is
removed or recharged in the vehicle/equipment? Reference 31.8.11

31.10.17. Do workers ensure the cover of the steel battery tray is kept open throughout the
recharging period when an enclosed/covered battery is charged? Reference 31.8.12

31.10.18. Is the contact surface of mating plugs or connectors on vehicles/equipment, batteries
and chargers maintained free of pitting or oxidation to prevent high-resistance contact?
Reference 31.8.13

32.16.3. Are tools not in use kept in suitable containers? Reference 32.3.4

33.8.6. Is the appropriate PPE available and worn when handling composite materials and
chemicals? Reference 33.2.1.6

33.8.16. Do facilities offering unreacted composite materials (i.e., auto body fillers, fiberglass
repair kits, etc.) ensure the materials are kept in their original containers and that all
manufacturer’s precaution and usage information is provided to purchaser at time of sale?
Reference 33.4.2

34.5.7.4. When personnel are exposed to and working on energized high voltage circuits, i.e.,
greater than 600 volts, nominal, safety observers trained in CPR shall be present, unless the area
supervisor determines the risk of the operation does not warrant a safety observer. Personnel
shall follow guidance in UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, when an arc-flash exists.
Table 34.1. Frequently Performed PMEL Operations Where PPE is Required.

             Frequently Performed PMEL Operations Where PPE is Required
                  Operation                                  Type PPE
Battery Servicing/Handling (Wet Cell)     Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety
                                          glasses with side shields)
                                          Face Shield
                                          Gloves, rubber
                                          Apron, rubber
Cathode Ray Tube Installation or Removal  Face shield/Safety glasses
                                          Gloves

Heavy Lifting                                   Safety-toe shoes
Compressed Air Cleaning                         Side and frontal eye protection
Laser Operations                                Laser Eye Protection (LEP)
Use of Hydrazine Related Equipment              Respirators (when engineering controls and
                                                work practices are not sufficient to reduce
                                                exposures to below the permissible exposure
                                                limit)
                                                Impervious gloves
Liquid Nitrogen Handling                        Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety
                                                glasses with side shields)
                                                Face Shield
                                                Apron, rubber
                                                Gloves, insulated
                                                Long sleeve garment
Oil Analysis Instrument Testing                 Light Shields and Filters
Mercury Servicing/Clean-up                      Rubber gloves
                                                Respirator approved for use with mercury
                                                Goggles
Working in Hazardous Noise Area (Noise          Approved hearing protection
Level 85 Decibels (dB) or Greater
Soldering                                       Respirator (when BE’s OEH risk assessment
                                                requires)
                                                Eye protection (side and frontal)
                                                Face shield or safety goggles
Liquid Fluorocarbon (Freon)                     Impervious gloves
                                                Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety
                                                glasses with side shields)
                                                Face Shield
Note: PPE listed above are the minimum requirements. Functional managers, ground safety
office, BE and Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), shall be consulted to
determine specific PPE requirements for all PMEL Operations.

35.1.5.3. Mandatory Monthly Inspections. Wire ropes, chains and hooks shall be thoroughly
inspected monthly. Inspections for each item shall be documented (separate documentation) on
the AFTO Form 95 or MAJCOM or locally devised paper or automated system IAW paragraph
35.1.1 and maintained on file for one year. Documentation will include date and time of the
monthly inspection, signature of the inspector, an identifier for the equipment inspected and
condition of the equipment. Inspection criteria will be IAW applicable paragraphs from this
chapter and applicable manufacturer instructions, as required.

35.1.5.4. Frequency. Inspections identified as monthly and annual inspections will be considered
as such and not a 30 or 365 day inspection. The next inspection must occur by the last day of the
perspective month. For example, a monthly inspection conducted on 4 February, the next
inspection must be completed by 31 March. An annual inspection conducted on 4 February 2009,
the next inspection must be completed by 28 February 2010.

35.12. Portable Automotive Lifting Devices (PALD) and Related Equipment.

35.12.1. Requirements. All personnel shall observe all safety precautions in this chapter and
those recommended by the manufacturers of the PALD. Always read the owner‘s manual before
operating the PALD. The owner’s manual/instructions spell out the proper operating procedures
and basic function of the components, which includes the recommended replacement fluid,
maintenance and inspection procedures and intervals as applicable.

35.12.2. Maintenance and Inspection.

35.12.2.1. Maintenance. The PALD shall be maintained IAW the product instructions.

35.12.2.2. Inspection.

35.12.2.2.1. Visual inspection shall be made before each use of the PALD by checking for
abnormal conditions, such as cracked welds, leaks and damaged, loose or missing parts.

35.12.2.2.2. Other inspections shall be made per product operating instructions.

35.12.2.2.3. Each PALD shall be inspected immediately if the lift is believed to have been
subjected to abnormal load or shock. It is recommended that this inspection be made by a
manufacturer’s or supplier’s authorized repair facility.

35.12.2.2.4. Owners and/or operators should be aware that repair of this equipment may require
specialized knowledge and facilities. It is recommended that an annual inspection of the PALD
be made by a manufacturer’s or supplier’s repair facility and that any defective parts, decals or
safety labels or signs are replace with manufacturer’s or supplier’s specified parts. A list of repair
facilities is available from the manufacturer or supplier.
Table 35.24. Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling and Storage Equipment.

Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling and Storage Equipment
Note: This table provides a general overview of requirements outlined in this standard. Refer to specific
paragraphs identified in parenthesis for more detailed information. See Table 35.25. for additional testing
and inspection requirements for hoisting equipment used for critical and nuclear loads.
                               Load Tests                          Inspections
                                        Following
                       Initial            Repair,                                            Specialized
    Type of         (Generally       Modifications,     Daily or Prior                        Operator
  Equipment        Manufacturer)           etc.             to Use           Periodic       Qualifications
Manual                  Yes                Yes               Yes            Annually             No
Hoisting           100% – 125%        100% – 125%        (35.5.2.3.1.)     (35.5.2.3.2.)
Devices            (35.5.2.5.2.1.)    (35.5.2.5.2.2.)
Powered                  No                 No               Yes                 No              Yes
Industrial                                                 (35.3.6.)                           (35.3.3.)
Trucks
Conveyors                No                 No               Yes                 No              Yes
                                                          (35.4.2.4.)                         (35.4.2.2.)
Hoists                  Yes                Yes               Yes               Yes               Yes
                   100% – 125%        100% – 125%        (35.6.3.5.1.)     (35.6.3.5.2.)      (35.6.3.3.)
                    (35.6.3.7.2.)      (35.6.3.7.2.)                          Other
                                                                             (35.1.3.)
Slings                  Yes                Yes               Yes               Yes                No
                   100% – 200%        100% – 200%        (35.7.2.3.1.)     (35.7.2.3.2.)
                    (35.7.3.1.1.,      (35.7.3.1.1.,
                     35.7.3.2.1.,       35.7.3.3.1.,
                     35.7.3.2.6.,      35.7.3.5.1.)
                     35.7.3.3.1.,
                     35.7.3.4.1.,
                    35.7.3.5.1.)
Overhead and            Yes                Yes               Yes                Yes              Yes
Locomotive         100% – 125%        100% – 125%        (35.8.2.5.1.)      (35.8.2.5.2.)     (35.8.2.3.)
Cranes              (35.8.2.7.2.)      (35.8.2.7.2.)                           Other
                                                                              (35.1.3.)
Mobile Cranes            No                Yes               Yes              Monthly            Yes
                                      100% – 110%        (35.9.2.4.1.,      (35.9.2.4.1.)     (35.9.2.2.)
                                      (35.9.2.6.2.1.)     35.1.5.5.)         Annually
                                                                            (35.9.2.4.2.)
                                                                               Other
                                                                              (35.1.3.)
Related                  Yes                Yes              Yes                Yes               No
Hoisting            (35.11.3.1.1.,    100% – 110%       (35.11.2.2.1.,     (35.11.2.2.2.)
Equipment           35.11.3.2.1.,      (35.11.5.1.1.,   35.11.3.1.4.,         Monthly
(Chain, Wire,       35.11.7.6.2.)      35.11.7.6.2.)    35.11.5.1.3.)      (35.11.2.2.1.,
Rope, Hook,                                                                35.11.3.1.4. ,
Personnel                                                                   35.11.5.1.3.)
Platforms)                                                                     Other
                                                                           (35.11.2.2.3.,
                                                                            35.11.2.4.3.)
Derricks                 Yes                No               Yes                Yes               No
                     (35.10.2.1.)                       (35.10.1.1.1.,      (35.10.1.2.)
                                                          35.1.5.5.)           Other
                                                                              (35.1.3.)
Table 35.25. Additional Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling Equipment
Used for Critical and Nuclear Loads.

   Additional Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling Equipment Used for
                                       Critical and Nuclear Loads
Note: This table provides a general overview of requirements outlined in this standard. Refer to specific
paragraphs identified in parenthesis for more detailed information.
Requirements outlined in this table are additional requirements to those outlined in Table 35.24.
Type of Equipment                           Annual Load Test                    Periodic Inspection
Hoists
Nuclear Load                                        Yes                            Semiannually
                                     Not less than 100% or more than                (35.6.3.5.2.)
                                       125% of the rated capacity
                                                (35.6.3.7.3.)
Critical Load                                       Yes
                                     Not less than 100% or more than
                                       125% of the rated capacity
                                                (35.6.3.7.4.)
Slings
Nuclear Load                                        Yes                                 Yes
                                            Per 11N Series TOs                  Per 11N Series TOs
                                                 (35.7.2.4.)                         (35.7.2.3.)
Overhead Cranes
Nuclear Load                                        Yes                            Semiannually
                                     Not less than 100% or more than                (35.8.2.5.2.)
                                                   110%
                                                (35.8.2.7.3.)
Mobile and Locomotive Cranes
Nuclear Load                                         Yes
                                     Not less than 100% or more than
                                                    110%
                                                (35.9.2.6.2.2.)
Related Hoisting
Equipment                                  NDI Hook Annually
Critical and Nuclear Load                    (35.11.5.1.4.)



35.13. Materials Handling Equipment Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like
all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter.
Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs,
FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command
or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.

35.13.1. Have qualified personnel been identified as training instructors? Reference 35.3.3.1

35.13.2. Have training outlines been developed for all material handling equipment? Reference
35.3.3.2

35.13.3. Does the instructor provide written certification of training completion to the OR&L?
Reference 35.3.3.3
35.13.4. Do instructors evaluate each operator at least once every three (3) years and provide
refresher training in relevant topics when there is reason to believe there is a need? Reference
35.3.3.7

35.13.5. Are safety pallets used to lift personnel designed correctly? Reference 35.3.4.6

35.13.6. Do operators follow all applicable requirements for safe operation of powered industrial
trucks? Reference 35.3.5

35.13.7. Do materials handling and lifting equipment operators conduct daily or prior-to-use
inspections and document them on AF Form 1800 per requirements of paragraph 35.1.1?
Reference 35.3.6.

35.13.8. Is materials handling and lifting equipment cleaned in designated locations and only
with cleaning agents approved by the FES Flight and BE? Reference 35.3.7.2

35.13.9. Do conveyors meet all required design and safety features? Reference 35.4.2

35.13.10. Are all personnel trained on procedures for operating conveyors? Reference 35.4.2.2

35.13.11. Are inspections of manual hoisting and pulling devices conducted annually?
Reference 35.5.2.3.2

35.13.12. Do identification tags attached to hoists include date of annual inspection, date of load
test, capacity of hoist and identification number of hoist? Reference 35.5.2.3.3

35.13.13. Are hoists operated only by personnel who are trained and qualified to use the
equipment? Reference 35.6.3.3

35.13.14. Are inspections of hoists and related equipment performed periodically and
documented per requirements of paragraph 35.1.1? Reference 35.6.3.5.2.

35.13.15. Do maintenance activities use lockout/tagout procedures IAW Chapter 21? Reference
35.6.3.6.5.1

35.13.16. Have operational (no load) and load tests been performed on all new hoists and those
which have had load-suspension parts altered, replaced or repaired? Reference 35.6.3.7.1

35.13.17. Are annual load tests performed on nuclear-certified hoists? Reference 35.6.3.7.3

35.13.18. Are annual load tests performed on hoists required to lift critical loads? Reference
35.6.3.7.4

35.13.19. Are records of periodic inspections, repairs and tests of hoists maintained indefinitely?
Reference 35.6.3.8
35.13.20. Do all slings comply with the design and manufacturing requirements of 29 CFR
1910.184 and ANSI B30.9? Reference 35.7.2.1

35.13.21. Are slings marked or identified with all required information on the sling or a durable
and legible tag or label? Reference 35.7.2.2

35.13.22. Are documented sling inspections conducted by a qualified person? Reference
35.7.2.3.2

35.13.23. Are all repaired or reconditioned slings appropriately load tested? Reference
35.7.2.4.2

35.13.24. Is a record of each sling‘s most recent load test maintained on file? Reference
35.7.2.4.2

35.13.25. Is the rated capacity plainly marked on each side of a crane, and if the crane has more
than one hoisting unit, is the rated capacity marked on each unit? Reference 35.8.2.2.2

35.13.26. Do pendant and cab hoist controls for trolley and bridge movement use compass
points as the preferred identification wherever possible? Reference 35.8.2.2.6

35.13.27. Is access to the cab or bridge walkway gained by a conveniently placed fixed ladder,
stairs or platform requiring no step over any gap in excess of 12 inches? Reference 35.8.2.2.8

35.13.28. Is a fire extinguisher, rated at least 10 BC, located in the cab of the crane? Reference
35.8.2.2.9

35.13.29. Are only properly trained and qualified personnel permitted to operate cranes?
Reference 35.8.2.3

35.13.30. Do cab-operated and pulpit-operated equipment operators meet the minimum physical
qualifications? Reference 35.8.2.3.1.2

35.13.31. Are the standard hand signals posted on or near all cranes? Reference 35.8.2.4.6

35.13.32. Do personnel involved in materials handling wear all appropriate personal protective
equipment? Reference 35.8.2.4.7

35.13.33. Is a preventive maintenance program established and records maintained and readily
available? Reference 35.8.2.6.1.1

35.13.34. Are hazardous energy control (lockout/tagout) procedures developed and used during
powered crane maintenance activities? Reference 35.8.2.6.2.1.3

35.13.35. Have all cranes received the required operational (no load) test? Reference
35.8.2.7.1.1
35.13.36. Is a clearly legible rating chart located in view of the operator in the crane cab?
Reference 35.9.2.1.2.1

35.13.37. Are those portions of crane cabs that extend beyond the main chassis when rotated
color coded on the lower areas to denote a strike hazard to personnel on the ground? Reference
35.9.2.1.2.5

35.13.38. Is an audible warning device provided when hoisting operations or moving equipment
might endanger personnel in the work area, and is the device control within easy reach of the
operator? Reference 35.9.2.1.2.10

35.13.39. Is a warning permanently posted in the cab of the crane which states: ―DANGER
HIGH VOLTAGE, Do Not Operate Within 10 Feet of Electric Power Lines‖? Reference
35.9.2.1.2.11

35.13.40. Have man-rated cranes been approved prior to acquisition or use? Reference
35.9.2.1.2.13

35.13.41. Are all crawler, locomotive, truck and mobile hydraulic crane operators licensed to
operate cranes? Reference 35.9.2.2

35.13.42. Is a list of qualified operators maintained by the using organization? Reference
35.9.2.2

35.13.43. Do all operators meet the minimum physical qualifications? Reference 35.9.2.2.1.2

35.13.44. Do operators follow correct procedures prior to leaving a crane unattended? Reference
35.9.2.3.5

35.13.45. During periods of non-use, high winds or weather alerts, do operators lower the boom
to ground level or a resting platform or otherwise ensure the boom is secure against movement
from wind or other forces? Reference 35.9.2.3.6

35.13.46. Are outriggers used when required and is blocking to support the outriggers of
sufficient size and strength to prevent shifting or toppling of the crane under load? Reference
35.9.2.3.24

35.13.47. When rotating the crane, is a tag line used when necessary to control rotation of the
load? Reference 35.9.2.3.30

35.13.48. Are procedures in place to ensure safe operations in the vicinity of electrical power
lines? Reference 35.9.2.3.39

35.13.49. Is appropriate personal protective equipment worn by crane crew personnel and
construction personnel involved in crane operations? Reference 35.9.2.3.41
35.13.50. Are energy control (lockout/tagout) procedures used during crane maintenance
activities? Reference 35.9.2.5.1.1.2

35.13.51. Are all required load tests of mobile and locomotive cranes conducted and records
maintained? Reference 35.9.2.6

35.13.52. Are frequent and periodic inspections of derricks performed as required and
documented? Reference 35.10.1

35.13.53. Have all required load tests of derricks been performed? Reference 35.10.2.1

35.13.54. Is a preventive maintenance program established for derricks, and are these
maintenance activities documented? Reference 35.10.3.1.1

35.13.55. Are running ropes visually inspected daily or prior to use and are those inspections
documented? Reference 35.11.2.2.1

35.13.56. Is a full, written, dated and signed report of wire rope condition kept on file for a
minimum of one year and readily available? Reference 35.11.2.2.1

35.13.57. Are hoist chains inspected before use and monthly, and are these inspections
documented? Reference 35.11.3.1.4

35.13.58. Are hooks with more than 5% of normal throat opening or any apparent bend or twist
from the plane from the original baseline measurements removed from service and replaced?
Reference 35.11.5.1.1

35.13.59. Are all hooks visually inspected daily or prior to use and thoroughly inspected each
month? Reference 35.11.5.1.3

35.13.60. If operations require removal or replacement of hooks and/or lifting fixtures, is the
lifting capacity of the hooks/lifting fixtures readily identifiable to the hoist/crane operator?
Reference 35.11.5.4

35.13.61. If an approved crane is used to lift personnel, is the platform used to suspend
personnel designed correctly? Reference 35.11.7

37.2.4. Delete.

37.4.1. Are hazards engineered out, isolated, guarded against or a safer chemical used whenever
possible before considering the use of PPE? Reference 37.1.1

37.4.2. Are electrostatic discharge (ESD) sensitive equipment computers, printers and data
processing equipment protected as needed to prevent damage from static electricity? Reference
37.1.4
37.4.3. Do supervisors prohibit eating and drinking in hazardous work areas? Reference 37.2.2

37.4.4. Is sufficient cooling air available for computers, printers and related equipment?
Reference 37.2.3

37.4.5. Is the area around computers, printers and related equipment kept clean to prevent
buildup of paper and other materials which could pose a fire hazard or restrict cooling airflow
and cause excessive temperatures which could damage equipment or pose a fire hazard?
Reference 37.2.3

37.4.6. Delete.

37.4.7. Are cords and cables placed such that they do not pose a fire hazard or a tripping hazard
to personnel? Reference 37.2.5

37.4.8. Are used laptop batteries disposed of IAW direction from the installation Environmental
Management office? Reference 37.2.7

37.4.9. Are power taps and extension cords prohibited from use with high current items, such as
coffee makers, microwave ovens, heaters, food preparation equipment, etc.? Reference 37.2.8

37.4.10. Does equipment plugged into power taps exceed the capacity of the power tap or
facility wiring? Reference 37.2.8

37.4.11. Are all aisle ways within data processing rooms clearly defined and kept free of
obstructions? Reference 37.3.3

37.4.12. Are suitable noncombustible containers used for scraps and wastes as they accumulate?
Reference 37.3.4

37.4.13. Are building floors, especially raised floors in data processing rooms, kept smooth,
clean and free of obstructions and slippery materials? Reference 37.3.6.1

37.4.14. Are floor loading capacities identified and posted? Reference 37.3.6.2

37.4.15. Are rooms with conductive floors cleaned and maintained with products which will not
adversely affect the conductivity of the floor? Reference 37.3.6.3

37.4.16. Are sub-floors under raised floors in data processing rooms cleaned periodically, but
not less than once every 60 days, unless extended by the FES Flight? Reference 37.3.6.4

37.4.17. Is storage prohibited in sub-floor areas? Reference 37.3.6.4

37.4.18. Is the area beneath raised floors cleaned if any spilled material penetrates the raised
floor? Reference 37.3.6.5
37.4.19. Are signs prohibiting food or drinks posted at each entrance to data processing rooms
and at each remote terminal location? Reference 37.3.11

37.4.20. If supervisors determine food and drink are authorized in data entry equipment rooms,
is such authorization posted in each data entry room or area? Reference 37.3.11

37.4.21. Is storage of materials above suspended ceilings prohibited? Reference 37.3.12

37.4.22. Are plainly marked emergency control switches installed in all data processing rooms
and located at designated exit doors? Reference 37.3.13

37.4.23. Does the FES Flight approve the location, method and quantity of tapes, disk packs and
other data storage media stored in a facility? Reference 37.3.16

37.4.24. Are battery-operated emergency lighting units immediately repaired or replaced when
found to be defective or inoperative? Reference 37.3.21

37.4.25. Are illuminated exit signs provided for each exit and passageway? Reference 37.3.22

37.4.26. Has a survey of each data processing facility been completed by the installation CE to
determine if a water hazard exists? Reference 37.3.23.2

39.8.1. Are signs prominently displayed reminding workers to wash their hands after using toilet
facilities? Reference 39.1.3

39.8.2. Are plumbing and appliances installed IAW AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention
Program? Reference 39.2.4

39.8.3. Is ingestion and preparation of food items prohibited in working areas? Reference 39.2.6

39.8.5. Is proper ventilation provided to remove hazardous vapors and excess moisture from the
facility? Reference 39.2.9

40.2.18.6. Extremely Cold (Cryogenic). A cryogenic liquid has a boiling point below minus
130o F (minus 90o) at 14.7 psia.

41.2.2. Lodging facilities shall comply with DoD standards, UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection
Engineering for Facilities, Air Force directives and NFPA 101, The Life Safety Code. The
installation CE shall ensure applicable directives are included when contracting for construction
of new lodging facilities or renovation of existing facilities. The building custodian shall ensure
correct phone number for the installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight, security forces
and medical facility are updated monthly and posted on telephones.

41.2.2.1. Delete.

41.2.2.2. Delete.
41.2.2.2.1. Delete.

41.2.2.2.2. Delete.

41.2.2.2.3. Delete.

41.2.2.2.4. Delete.

41.2.2.2.5. Delete.

41.2.2.2.6. Delete.

41.2.2.3. Delete.

41.2.2.4. Delete.

41.2.2.5. Delete.

41.2.6.7. All electrical receptacles (125 volt, single phase, 15- and 20-ampere) installed in
bathrooms, kitchens or where receptacles are installed within six (6) feet of the outside edge of
any sink shall have Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupter (GFCI) protection.

4.4.1. Delete.

4.4.2. Does the building custodian ensure correct phone numbers for the FES Flight, security
forces and medical facility are posted on telephones on a monthly basis? Reference 41.2.2

41.4.3. Are all fire exits clearly marked the path of exit kept clear of equipment and materials?
Reference 41.2.4

41.4.4. Are all employees trained in proper evacuation procedures? Reference 41.2.4

42.7.7. Do personnel who may be exposed to ionizing radiation during their duties or occupation
wear personal radiation monitoring devices? Reference 42.2.4.3

43.5.1.1. Personnel handling or transferring LN2 or LOX shall follow PPE requirements in
Figure 43.3. Non-absorbent long sleeves shall extend to the gloves. Cuff-less trousers shall be
worn outside leather boots or over high-top leather shoes to shed spilled liquid. Boots and shoes
shall have no mesh sides or air holes and will be tightly laced to prevent spilled cryogen seeping
inside. Only tightly woven materials shall be worn during LN2 or LOX operations. A face shield,
eye protection (safety goggles or safety glasses with side shields) and apron (leather or other BE-
approved) shall be worn.

43.12. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for LN2 and LOX Operations. The following
(Figure 43.3) is a quick reference guide for minimum PPE requirements for activities and
equipment in LN2 and LOX operations. It is not all inclusive and the omission of an activity or
item of equipment does not mean that PPE is not required. The supervisor is ultimately
responsible for providing and enforcing the wear of PPE recommended or required by the
installation Ground Safety office or BE. Specific PPE for each work area and worker is
determined through coordination with the supervisor, unit commander, Ground Safety office and
BE. BE is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and installation authority for determining
respiratory protection requirements IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection
Program. The worker is responsible for the care and proper use of PPE provided. PPE shall be
used wherever inhalation, absorption or physical contact injuries may occur. Refer to Chapter
14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and
Static Grounding/Bonding, for more details on PPE, recommended usage, national stock
numbers (NSNs) and other relevant information.

Figure 43.3. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) For LN2 and LOX Operations.

Operation                              Minimum Required PPE
Operating LN2 and LOX Generating       Thermal Gloves
Plant                                  Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety glasses
                                       with side shields)
                                       Face Shield
                                       Ear Protection (Consult BE’s OEH risk
                                       assessment)
Cleaning LN2 and LOX Generating        Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety glasses
Plant                                  with side shields)
                                       Face Shield
                                       Chemical Gloves (Consult BE’s OEH risk
                                       assessment)
                                       Chemical Apron
                                       Respirator (Consult BE’s OEH risk assessment)
Mixing Chemicals                       Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety glasses
                                       with side shields)
                                       Face Shield
                                       Chemical Gloves (Consult BE’s OEH risk
                                       assessment)
                                       Chemical Apron
Moving Chemicals                       Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety glasses
                                       with side shields)
                                       Face Shield
                                       Chemical Gloves (Consult BE’s OEH risk
                                       assessment)
                                       Chemical Apron
Storage and Transfer of LOX            Head cover
                                       Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety glasses
                                       with side shields)
                                       Face Shield
                                       Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder’s gauntlet
                                       cuff (DLA-A-50022) (NSN 8415-00-268-7860),
                                 medium with gloves, cloth, work, cotton knit
                                 (DLA-A-55213) (NSN 8415-00-964-4760),
                                 medium as an insert; or
                                 Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-
                                 268-7871) with glove inserts, wool (NSN 8415-
                                 00-682-6673) or equivalent
                                 Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108)
                                 Coveralls, cotton white (mandatory) (NSN 8405-
                                 00-037-9274)
                                 Cuff-less trousers
                                 Long sleeve shirt (Optional)
                                 Jacket (Optional)
                                 Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with
                                 rubber soles and heels (no mesh sides or air
                                 holes)
Storage and Transfer of LN2      Head cover
                                 Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety glasses
                                 with side shields)
                                 Face Shield (NSN 4240-00-542-2048)
                                 Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder’s gauntlet
                                 cuff (Federal Specification KKG486, Type II,
                                 NSN 8415-00-268-7860), medium with gloves,
                                 cloth, work, cotton knit (MIL G-1057E),
                                 medium as an insert; or
                                 Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-
                                 268-7871) with glove inserts, wool (NSN 8415-
                                 00-682-6673)
                                 Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108)
                                 Cuff-less trousers
                                 Long sleeve shirt (Optional)
                                 Jacket, or
                                 Coveralls, cotton white (NSN 8405-00-037-
                                 9274)
                                 Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with
                                 rubber soles and heels (no mesh sides or air
                                 holes)
Servicing of Aircraft with LOX   Head cover
(Consult TO 00-25-172)
                                 Eye Protection (safety goggles or safety glasses
                                 with side shields)
                                 Face Shield or locally purchased hard hat face
                                 shield combination
                                 Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder’s gauntlet
                                 cuff (DLA-A-50022) (NSN 8415-00-268-7860),
                                 medium with gloves, cloth, work, cotton knit
                                 (DLA-A-55213) (NSN 8415-00-964-4760),
                                         medium as an insert; or
                                         Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-
                                         268-7871) with glove inserts, wool (NSN 8415-
                                         00-682-6673) or equivalent
                                         Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108)

                                         Coveralls, cotton white (mandatory) (NSN 8405-
                                         00-037-9274)
                                         Cuff-less trousers
                                         Long sleeve shirt (Optional)
                                         Jacket (Optional)
                                         Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with
                                         rubber soles and heels (no mesh sides or air
                                         holes)

44.3.6.5. Hoods and ducting shall be kept free of grease accumulation. Hood filters over grease
vapor producing activities (for example, deep fat fryers and grills) shall be washed at least daily.
Hood filters in other areas shall be washed at least weekly. Ducting shall be cleaned as necessary
but at least once every six (6) months. Cleaning of filters and ducts shall be documented IAW
local procedures. Cooking shall not be permitted under hoods without properly installed filters or
when the fire extinguishing system is not operating. Exhaust hoods shall be vented outside the
facility. Refer to NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial
Cooking Operations, for additional guidance. Exception: Cleaning of hood and exhaust ducts
serving food service equipment may be extended to every two years if a dining facility prepares
less than 10 meals per month.

44.5.11. Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupters (GFCI). These devices safeguard personnel from
current leakage to ground and are mandatory in all new food services facilities, facilities
undergoing modification in areas subject to wash down and in all areas where excessive water
presents an electrical shock hazard. They shall be used IAW paragraph 8.9.7.2. GFCIs are not
required for appliances such as freezers or refrigerators. A GFCI breaker installed in the circuit
panel can provide GFCI protection for large areas.
BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-203
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  15 JUNE 2012

                                                                                           Safety

                                                           AIR FORCE CONSOLIDATED
                                                  OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY INSTRUCTION




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSC/SEG                                                            Certified by: AF/SE
                                                                     (Maj Gen Gregory A. Feest)
                                                                                      Pages: 967

Supersedes: AFOSHSTD 91-501, 7 July 2004; AFOSHSTD 91-1, 1 August 1997;
AFOSHSTD 91-5, 1 May 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-8, 1 October 1998; AFOSHSTD 91-10, 1 July
1998; AFOSHSTD 91-17, 1 September 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-20, 1 September 1998;
AFOSHSTD 91-25, 1 February 1998; AFOSHSTD 91-38, 1 September 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-
46, 1 August 2002; AFOSHSTD 91-50, 1 August 1998; AFOSHSTD 91-54, 1 September 1997;
AFOSHSTD 91-64, 1 August 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-66, 1 October 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-67, 1
October 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-68, 1 October 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-90, 1 May 1997;
AFOSHSTD 91-100, 1 May 1998; AFOSHSTD 91-110, 1 July 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-118, 1
April 1997; AFOSHSTD 91-119, 1 March 1996; AFOSHSTD 91-300, 1 May 1997



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Programs, and
consolidates all Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) 91-series standards. Refer
to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, for
guidance on submitting requests for variance to requirements of this instruction. Report conflicts
in guidance between this instruction, federal standards or other Air Force directives through
MAJCOM, DRU or FOA ground safety offices to Headquarters Air Force Safety Center, Ground
Safety Division, Policy and Procedures Branch (HQ AFSEC/SEGP), 9700 G Avenue SE,
Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
 2                                                                                                      AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012



Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional‘s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Records Disposition: Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management Systems (AFRIMS)
Records      Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)     located     at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims. This instruction defines the Air Force‘s minimum safety, fire protection
and occupational health standards. Requirements in this publication are mandatory, unless
indicated otherwise, and apply to all US Air Force organizations and personnel, including US Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units, all Air National Guard (ANG) personnel, with the
exception of state employees. In addition, it includes ANG Air Technicians during their daily
operations as well as when deployed as a federal military force. This standard implements parts
of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 29 Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR), and includes additional requirements not addressed by the OSHA standard. Not included
are safety, fire prevention and occupational health requirements addressed in specific equipment
technical orders (TOs). Note: MAJCOMs may have more stringent or restrictive requirements
than those contained in this instruction or other Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
(AFOSH) instructions/standards. Therefore, all requests for interpretations or clarifications
concerning these publications must be forwarded through the servicing MAJCOM/DRU/FOA
safety, health and/or civil engineering organization, as applicable.

No TO, Instruction or Operating Instruction can address every hazard or potential hazard that
may arise from a specific task or combination of tasks. Where situations exist that are not
covered by existing directives, use a Risk Management (RM) process to assess risk associated
with those situations and determine adequate safeguards or procedures to manage the risk. Refer
to AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, for guidance
on using the RM process. Note: The RM process may not be used to violate directives or other
regulatory guidance. Normal waiver or variance procedures must be followed in all cases (refer
to AFI 91-202).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document, AFI 91-203, replaces and substantially changes Air Force Occupational Safety
and Health (AFOSH) Standard 91-501 and all other 91-series AFOSH standards. This document
updates and merges Air Force safety principles, concepts and program elements into a single
consolidated occupational safety and health document. This instruction incorporates the safety
principles and concepts of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and other
national consensus safety agencies.

Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                       26
       1.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   26
       1.2.    How to Use This Document. ..................................................................................                  26
       1.3.    Applying Standards. ...............................................................................................           26
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                       3



       1.4.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       27
       1.5.    Job Safety Analysis (JSA). ....................................................................................               29
       1.6.    Military-Unique and Nonmilitary-Unique Policy. .................................................                              30
       1.7.    National Consensus Standards. ..............................................................................                  31
       1.8.    Medical Facilities. ..................................................................................................        31
       1.9.    Qualified Person. ...................................................................................................         31
       1.10.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................         31
       1.11.   Variances and Exemptions. ....................................................................................                32
       1.12.   First Aid, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Bloodborne Pathogen
               (BBP) Training. .....................................................................................................         33
Figure 1.1.    Job Safety Analysis Guide. ....................................................................................               34
Figure 1.2.    Job Safety Analysis Worksheet. ............................................................................                   35

Chapter 2—HUMAN FACTORS                                                                                                                      36
       2.1.    Human Factors. ......................................................................................................         36
       2.2.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       37
       2.3.    Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. ..........................................                                37

Chapter 3—PHYSICAL HAZARDS                                                                                                                   38
       3.1.    Hazards. .................................................................................................................    38
       3.2.    Housekeeping. ........................................................................................................        39

Chapter 4—MANUAL MATERIAL HANDLING AND LIFTING TECHNIQUES                                                                                    40
       4.1.    Special Requirements (Hazards and Human Factors). ...........................................                                 40
       4.2.    Manual Handling. ..................................................................................................           40
       4.3.    Lifting and Carrying. .............................................................................................           40
       4.4.    Training. .................................................................................................................   40
       4.5.    Minimizing Manual Material Handling Hazards. ..................................................                               41
       4.6.    Proper Lifting Methods. .........................................................................................             41
Figure 4.1.    How to Lift Properly. .............................................................................................           42
       4.7.    Carrying Methods. .................................................................................................           43
       4.8.    Carrying Items Up or Down Stairways: .................................................................                        43
       4.9.    Manual Material Handling Equipment (MHE). .....................................................                               44
       4.10.   Inspection of Materials. .........................................................................................            47
       4.11.   Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). ..................................................................                       47
 4                                                                                                      AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      4.12.   Inspection and Maintenance of Manual Material Handling Equipment (MHE). ...                                                    47
      4.13.   Other Safety Requirements. ...................................................................................                 47
      4.14.   Manual Material Handling and Lifting Techniques Checklist. ..............................                                      48

Chapter 5—HOUSEKEEPING                                                                                                                       50
      5.1.    Floors and Walking Surfaces. ................................................................................                  50
      5.2.    Scraps and Combustible Waste. .............................................................................                    50
      5.3.    Packing Supplies and Recycled Materials. ............................................................                          50
      5.4.    Electric Buffing Machines. ....................................................................................                50
      5.5.    Walls and Ceilings. ................................................................................................           50
      5.6.    Stacking Materials. ................................................................................................           50
      5.7.    Lighting Fixtures. ...................................................................................................         50
      5.8.    Trash. .....................................................................................................................   50
      5.9.    Industrial Areas. .....................................................................................................        51
      5.10.   Snow and Ice. .........................................................................................................        52
      5.11.   Housekeeping Checklist. ........................................................................................               52

Chapter 6—FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION                                                                                                     53
      6.1.    Hazards. .................................................................................................................     53
      6.2.    General Requirements. ...........................................................................................              53
      6.3.    Exits and Exit Markings. ........................................................................................              62
      6.4.    Fire Protection and Prevention Checklist. .............................................................                        62

Chapter 7—WALKING SURFACES, GUARDING FLOOR AND WALL OPENINGS,
           FIXED INDUSTRIAL STAIRS, AND PORTABLE AND FIXED
           LADDERS                                                                                                                           64
      7.1.    Specific Hazards Associated with Walking and Working Surfaces. .....................                                           64
      7.2.    Requirements. ........................................................................................................         64
      7.3.    Fixed Industrial Stairs and Ramps. ........................................................................                    70
      7.4.    Fixed Ladders. .......................................................................................................         73
      7.5.    Portable Ladders. ...................................................................................................          76
      7.6.    Additional Requirements for Stepladders. .............................................................                         81
Table 7.1.    Uniform Combination of Stairway Rise and Tread Dimension. ............................                                         82
Table 7.2.    Ramp Installation Dimension. ...............................................................................                   82
Table 7.3.    ANSI Standard on Ladders. ...................................................................................                  82
Table 7.4.    Ladders Workload Ratings. ...................................................................................                  82
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                        5



Table 7.5.    Minimum Overlap for Multi-Section Extension Ladders. .....................................                                      83
      7.7.    Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs,
              and Portable and Fixed Ladders Checklist. ............................................................                          83

Chapter 8—ELECTRICAL SAFETY                                                                                                                   87
      8.1.    General Information. ..............................................................................................             87
      8.2.    Receptacles. ...........................................................................................................        87
      8.3.    Plugs. .....................................................................................................................    88
      8.4.    Flexible Cords and Extension Cords. .....................................................................                       88
      8.5.    Disconnecting Means (Circuit Breakers and Disconnect Switches). .....................                                           90
      8.6.    Guarding of Live Parts. ..........................................................................................              90
      8.7.    Equipment Grounding. ...........................................................................................                91
      8.8.    Restrictions. ...........................................................................................................       91
      8.9.    Electrical Installations and Equipment. .................................................................                       91
      8.10.   Additional Electrical Equipment Requirements. ...................................................                               92
      8.11.   Electronic Equipment. ...........................................................................................               93
      8.12.   Emergency Equipment (Electrical Safety). ............................................................                           94
      8.13.   Automated External Defibrillator (AED). .............................................................                           95
      8.14.   Lighting. .................................................................................................................     95
      8.15.   Moisture Guarding. ................................................................................................             96
      8.16.   Undervoltage Protection. .......................................................................................                96
      8.17.   Control Switches. ...................................................................................................           96
      8.18.   Work on Energized Equipment. .............................................................................                      96
      8.19.   Electrical Safety Checklist. ....................................................................................               98

Chapter 9—JEWELRY                                                                                                                            100
      9.1.    Finger Rings. ..........................................................................................................       100
      9.2.    Other Jewelry. ........................................................................................................        101
      9.3.    Jewelry in Industrial Areas. ...................................................................................               101
      9.4.    Jewelry Checklist. ..................................................................................................          101

Chapter 10—OFFICE SAFETY                                                                                                                     102
      10.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................            102
      10.2.   Basic Office Safety Procedures. ............................................................................                   102
      10.3.   Office Ergonomics. ................................................................................................            103
 6                                                                                                        AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      10.4.      Lifting Requirements. ............................................................................................            104
      10.5.      General Office Equipment. ....................................................................................                104
      10.6.      Working with Video Display Terminals (VDT). ...................................................                               106
      10.7.      Elevators. ...............................................................................................................    107
      10.8.      Storage. ..................................................................................................................   107
      10.9.      Lighting. .................................................................................................................   107
      10.10. Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC). ............................................                                    108
      10.11. Pest Control. ...........................................................................................................         108
      10.12. Noise. .....................................................................................................................      108
      10.13. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). ..................................................................                           108
      10.14. Training on Office Tasks and Equipment. .............................................................                             108
      10.15. Office Safety Checklist. .........................................................................................                109

Chapter 11—WEATHER SAFETY                                                                                                                      110
      11.1.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       110
      11.2.      General Lightning Safety for all AF Activities and Operations. ...........................                                    110
      11.3.      Weather Safety Checklist. ......................................................................................              111

Chapter 12—HAND TOOLS AND PORTABLE POWER TOOLS                                                                                                 113
      12.1.      Hazards and Human Factors. .................................................................................                  113
      12.2.      Tool Procurement. .................................................................................................           113
      12.3.      General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             113
      12.4.      Non-powered Hand Tools. .....................................................................................                 114
      12.5.      Powered Portable Hand Tools. ..............................................................................                   117
      12.6.      Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................             119
      12.7.      Personal Protective Clothing and Equipment. .......................................................                           122
      12.8.      Hand Tools and Portable Power Tools Checklist. .................................................                              122

Chapter 13—FALL PROTECTION                                                                                                                     125
      13.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................           125
      13.2.      Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................             125
      13.3.      Protection From Falls. ............................................................................................           126
      13.4.      Fall Protection Equipment. ....................................................................................               127
Table 13.1.      Minimum Required Horizontal Distance. ..............................................................                          128
      13.5.      Supervisor, Qualified Person and Competent Person Fall Protection Duties and
                 Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       132
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                        7



       13.6.   Training. .................................................................................................................   133
       13.7.   Rescue Plan. ...........................................................................................................      133
       13.8.   Where non-Air Force professional rescue agencies cannot promptly rescue a
               fallen AF worker, the installation Ground Safety office and Fire Emergency
               Services (FES) Flight may establish training for fire protection workers and
               adequate installation personnel as authorized or competent rescuers. ...................                                      133
       13.9.   Fall Protection Checklist. .......................................................................................            134

Chapter 14—PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE)                                                                                               135
       14.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................           135
       14.2.   Job Safety Analysis (JSA). ....................................................................................               135
       14.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       135
       14.4.   General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             136
       14.5.   Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................             150
Table 14.1.    Rubber Insulating Equipment Voltage Requirements. ..........................................                                  151
Table 14.2.    Alternating Current (AC) Proof Test Requirements (Gloves Only). .....................                                         152
Table 14.3.    Glove Test – Water (NOTES: ................................................................................                   152
       14.6.   Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Checklist. ..................................................                             152

Chapter 15—GROUNDS, LAWN CARE AND MOWING SAFETY                                                                                              155
       15.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................           155
       15.2.   Landscape and Grounds Maintenance. ..................................................................                         156
Figure 15.1.   Reel Mower. ...........................................................................................................       156
Figure 15.2.   Rotary Mower. .......................................................................................................         157
Figure 15.3.   Commercial Reel Mower. ......................................................................................                 158
Figure 15.4.   Commercial Rotary Mower. ..................................................................................                   158
Figure 15.5.   Commercial Zero Turn Radius (ZTR) Rotary Mower. ..........................................                                    158
Figure 15.6.   Agricultural Tractor, Two Wheel Drive. ...............................................................                        160
Figure 15.7.   Agricultural Tractor, Four Wheel Drive. ...............................................................                       160
Figure 15.8.   Agricultural Tractor, Tracked. ...............................................................................                161
Figure 15.9.   Agricultural Tractor Sickle Bar Mower, Mounts to Tractor Three Point Hitch. ...                                               161
       15.3.   Tree and Hedge Trimming. ....................................................................................                 161
       15.4.   Fertilizers, Herbicides and Insecticides. ................................................................                    162
       15.5.   Irrigation Systems. .................................................................................................         163
       15.6.   Grounds, Lawn Care and Mowing Safety Checklist. .............................................                                 163
 8                                                                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Chapter 16—MOBILE ELEVATING WORK PLATFORMS                                                                                                     165
       16.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................          165
       16.2.      Hazards. .................................................................................................................   165
       16.3.      General Requirements. ...........................................................................................            165
       16.4.      Vehicle-Mounted Elevating and Rotating Work Platforms. ..................................                                    165
       16.5.      Manually-Propelled and Self-Propelled Mobile Work Platform and Scaffolds
                  (Towers). ................................................................................................................   170
Figure 16.1.      Ascending/Descending Work Platform. ................................................................                         178
       16.6.      Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Checklist. ........................................................                          178

Chapter 17—SCAFFOLDING                                                                                                                         181
       17.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................          181
       17.2.      Hazards and Human Factors. .................................................................................                 181
       17.3.      General Requirements. ...........................................................................................            181
       17.4.      Tube and Coupler Scaffolds. ..................................................................................               184
       17.5.      Tubular Welded Frame Scaffolds. .........................................................................                    185
       17.6.      Masons‘ Adjustable Multiple-point Suspension Scaffolds. ...................................                                  187
       17.7.      Two-Point Suspension Scaffolds (Swinging Scaffolds). .......................................                                 187
       17.8.      Stone Setters‘ Adjustable Multiple-Point Suspension Scaffolds. ..........................                                    189
       17.9.      Single-Point Adjustable Suspension Scaffolds. .....................................................                          189
       17.10. Boatswains‘ Chairs. ...............................................................................................              190
       17.11. Carpenters‘ Bracket Scaffolds. ..............................................................................                    190
       17.12. Bricklayers‘ Square Scaffolds. ...............................................................................                   191
       17.13. Horse Scaffolds. .....................................................................................................           191
       17.14. Needle Beam Scaffolds. .........................................................................................                 191
       17.15. Plasterers, Decorators and Large Area Scaffolds. ..................................................                              192
       17.16. Interior Hung Scaffolds. .........................................................................................               192
       17.17. Ladder-Jack Scaffolds. ...........................................................................................               193
       17.18. Window-Jack Scaffolds. ........................................................................................                  193
       17.19. Roofing Brackets. ..................................................................................................             193
       17.20. Crawling Boards or Chicken Ladders. ...................................................................                          193
       17.21. Float or Ship Scaffolds. .........................................................................................               193
Table 17.1.       Scaffold Grade Planking. .......................................................................................             194
Table 17.2.       Insulated Lines. ......................................................................................................      194
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                             9



Table 17.3.          Uninsulated Lines. .................................................................................................         195
Table 17.4.          Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Light Duty. ............................................................                        195
Table 17.5.          Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Medium Duty. .......................................................                            195
Table 17.6.          Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Heavy Duty. ..........................................................                          195
Table 17.7.          Outrigger Scaffolds. ...............................................................................................         196
Table 17.8.          Ladder-Type Platforms. .........................................................................................             196
Table 17.9.          Bricklayers‘ Square Scaffolds. ...............................................................................               197
Table 17.10. Horse Scaffolds. .....................................................................................................               197
          17.22. Scaffolding Checklist. ............................................................................................              197

Chapter 18—MACHINERY                                                                                                                              199
          18.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................          199
          18.2.      Hazards. .................................................................................................................   199
          18.3.      General Requirements. ...........................................................................................            199
          18.4.      Woodworking Machinery. .....................................................................................                 203
          18.5.      Metal Working Machinery. ....................................................................................                215
          18.6.      Permanently Installed Grinding Machines. ............................................................                        227
Table 18.1.          OSHA Standards. ...................................................................................................          235
Figure 18.1.         Tapping Locations on Ring Test. ...........................................................................                  236
Figure 18.2.         Flange Installation. .................................................................................................       236
Figure 18.3.         Types 16, 17, 18, 18R and 19 Cone and Plug Wheels. ..........................................                                237
Figure 18.4.         Bench and Floor Stand Grinder Guard Exposure Angles. .....................................                                   237
Figure 18.5.         Bench and Floor Stand Grinder Guard Exposure Angles When Contact Below
                     the Horizontal Plane of the Spindle is Required. ...................................................                         238
Figure 18.6.         Cylindrical Grinder Guard Exposure Angles. ........................................................                          238
Figure 18.7.         Top Grinding Guard Exposure Angles. .................................................................                        238
          18.7.      Machinery Checklist. .............................................................................................           239

Chapter 19—EMERGENCY SHOWER AND EYEWASH UNITS                                                                                                     246
          19.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................          246
          19.2.      OSHA Requirements. ............................................................................................              246
          19.3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................      247
          19.4.      Equipment. .............................................................................................................     247
          19.5.      Location. ................................................................................................................   248
 10                                                                                                        AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       19.6.      Installation. ............................................................................................................   248
       19.7.      Control Valve and Actuating Mechanism. .............................................................                         248
       19.8.      Alarms and Lights. .................................................................................................         249
       19.9.      Maintenance and Testing. ......................................................................................              249
       19.10. Training. .................................................................................................................      250
       19.11. Water Supply. ........................................................................................................           250
       19.12. Performance Specifications and Installation Requirements for Permanently-
              Installed Units. .......................................................................................................         250
Figure 19.1.      Permanent Combination Emergency Shower and Face and Eyewash Unit. ..........                                                 252
Figure 19.2.      Self-Contained Non-Pressurized Eye Wash Unit. .................................................                              252
Figure 19.3.      Eyewash Bottle. .....................................................................................................        253
Figure 19.4.      Hand-Held Drench Hose (Permanent). ..................................................................                        253
Figure 19.5.      Activating Mechanisms. ........................................................................................              254
Figure 19.6.      Multiple-Spray Shower and Eyewash. ...................................................................                       255
Figure 19.7.      Wall-Mounted Permanent Eye and Face Wash. ....................................................                               256
       19.13. Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units Checklist. ...............................................                                    256

Chapter 20—SAFETY COLOR CODING, LABELING AND MARKING FOR PIPING
            SYSTEMS                                                                                                                            258
       20.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................          258
       20.2.      Hazards and Human Factors. .................................................................................                 258
       20.3.      General Requirements. ...........................................................................................            258
Table 20.1.       Piping Materials. ....................................................................................................       258
       20.4.      Worker Training. ...................................................................................................         261
       20.5.      Classification of Material in Piping Systems. ........................................................                       261
Table 20.2.       Legend and Color Band Dimensions. ....................................................................                       261
Figure 20.1.      Exact Identification Always by Name of Material Contained. ..............................                                    262
Table 20.3.       Examples of Legend. .............................................................................................            262
Table 20.4.       Classification of Hazards of Materials and Designation of Colors¹. ......................                                    262
       20.6.      Safety Color Coding, Labeling and Marking For Piping Systems Checklist. .......                                              263

Chapter 21—HAZARDOUS ENERGY CONTROL (LOCKOUT AND TAGOUT)                                                                                       264
       21.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................          264
       21.2.      Specific Information. .............................................................................................          264
       21.3.      Specifications for Lockout/Tagout (LOTO). .........................................................                          265
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                          11



         21.4.     LOTO Procedures. .................................................................................................           272
         21.5.     LOTO Training. .....................................................................................................         281
         21.6.     LOTO Program Evaluations. .................................................................................                  282
         21.7.     Sample Lockout/Tagout Procedures. .....................................................................                      283
         21.8.     Contractors. ............................................................................................................    285
Figure 21.1.       Lockout/Tagout Methods. ......................................................................................               286
Figure 21.2.       AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout Tag. ................................................                                287
Figure 21.3.       AF Form 979, Danger Tag. ....................................................................................                287
Figure 21.4.       AF Form 980, Caution Tag. ...................................................................................                288
Figure 21.5.       AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag. ...........................................................................                   288
Figure 21.6.       AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag. ...........................................................................                   289
Figure 21.7.       Basic LOTO Checklist. ..........................................................................................             289
Figure 21.8.       Basic Release From LOTO Checklist. ...................................................................                       291
Figure 21.9.       Equipment Specific LOTO Checklist. ...................................................................                       292
Figure 21.10. LOTO Self-Assessment Tool (Example). ..............................................................                               297
Figure 21.11. LOTO Annual Inspection Sheet (Example). ..........................................................                                298
Figure 21.12. LOTO Log Book Sheet (Example). .......................................................................                            299
Figure 21.13. Lockout/Tagout Decision Flow Chart, Page 1 of 4. ..............................................                                   300
         21.9.     Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout) Checklist. ................................                                    304

Chapter 22—FLAMMABLES AND COMBUSTIBLES                                                                                                          305
         22.1.     General Information. ..............................................................................................          305
         22.2.     Human Factors. ......................................................................................................        306
         22.3.     Hazards. .................................................................................................................   306
         22.4.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................      307
         22.5.     General Requirements. ...........................................................................................            307
         22.6.     Specific Applications. ............................................................................................          314
         22.7.     Military Exchanges, Commissaries and Associate Retail Stores. ..........................                                     315
         22.8.     Small Gasoline Engine Powered Equipment. ........................................................                            316
Table 22.1.        Maximum Allowable Size Containers and Portable Tanks. ..................................                                     318
Table 22.2.        Storage in Inside Rooms. .......................................................................................             318
Table 22.3.        Indoor Container Storage. ......................................................................................             318
Table 22.4.        Indoor Portable Tank Storage. ...............................................................................                319
 12                                                                                                        AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 22.5.       Outdoor Container Storage. ...................................................................................                320
Table 22.6.       Outdoor Portable Tank Storage. ............................................................................                   321
Table 22.7.       Maximum Allowable Size of Containers — General Laboratories. ......................                                           321
Table 22.8.       Maximum Allowable Size of Containers — Health-Related Laboratories. ..........                                                322
Table 22.9.       Maximum Allowable Quantities per Control Area. ...............................................                                322
Table 22.10. Classifications of Flammable and Combustible Liquids. ......................................                                       323
        22.9.     Flammable and Combustible Checklist. ................................................................                         323

Chapter 23—CONFINED SPACES                                                                                                                      328
        23.1.     General Information. ..............................................................................................           328
        23.2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       328
        23.3.     General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             338
        23.4.     Confined Spaces Classification—Atmospheric Conditions (Reference Table 23.1.
                  below). ...................................................................................................................   343
Table 23.1.       Confined Spaces Classification—Atmospheric Conditions. .................................                                      344
        23.5.     Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................             345
        23.6.     Emergency and Rescue Procedures. ......................................................................                       350
        23.7.     TRAINING. ...........................................................................................................         352
        23.8.     Contractor Requirements. ......................................................................................               354
Figure 23.1.      Permit-Required Confined Space Decision Flow Chart. .......................................                                   356
        23.9.     MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces (Reference Table 23.2. below).                                                      356
Table 23.2.       MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces. .................................................                                  357
Figure 23.2.      AF Form 1024, Confined Space Entry Permit. ......................................................                             362
        23.10. INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE AF FORM 1024. ..........................                                                         364
        23.11. Confined Spaces Checklist. ...................................................................................                   365

Chapter 24—AIRCRAFT FLIGHT LINE – GROUND OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
                                                                                                                                                369
        24.1.     General Information. ..............................................................................................           369
        24.2.     Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................             369
        24.3.     Flight Line Potentially Hazardous Areas and Operations. .....................................                                 372
        24.4.     Additional PPE Requirements. ..............................................................................                   374
        24.5.     Aircraft Parking Requirements. .............................................................................                  376
        24.6.     Adverse Weather Conditions. ................................................................................                  378
Table 24.1.       Adverse Weather High Wind Safeguards. .............................................................                           379
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                         13



       24.7.      Towing and Taxiing Aircraft. ................................................................................                380
Figure 24.1.      Swept Wing Aircraft Hazard. ................................................................................                 387
       24.8.      Aircraft Jacking Operations. ..................................................................................              388
       24.9.      Aircraft Engine Operations. ...................................................................................              390
       24.10. Jet Aircraft Requirements. .....................................................................................                 392
       24.11. Aircraft Cleaning. ..................................................................................................            394
       24.12. Aircraft Tire Mounting and Servicing Operations. ................................................                                395
       24.13. Flight Line Vehicle Operations. .............................................................................                    398
Figure 24.2.      AFVA 11-240, Airport Signs and Markings. .........................................................                           403
Figure 24.3.      AFVA 13-221, Control Tower Light Signals. .......................................................                            404
       24.14. Aircraft Hangar Operations. ...................................................................................                  407
       24.15. Aircraft Shop and Flight Line Maintenance Operations. .......................................                                    412
       24.16. Fall Protection Requirements. ................................................................................                   420
       24.17. Safety in Flight Line Contractor Operations. .........................................................                           425
       24.18. Aircraft Flight line – Ground Operations and Activities Checklist. ......................                                        426

Chapter 25—CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                                                                                   430
       25.1.      Hazards. .................................................................................................................   430
       25.2.      Supervisory Responsibilities. .................................................................................              432
       25.3.      Occupational Health. .............................................................................................           435
       25.4.      Shop Layout, Equipment, General Walking and Working Surfaces. ....................                                           436
       25.5.      Fire Prevention. ......................................................................................................      441
       25.6.      Compressed Air. ....................................................................................................         442
       25.7.      Jacks and Portable Hoists. ......................................................................................            443
       25.8.      Shoring and Trenching. ..........................................................................................            443
       25.9.      Barricades and Traffic Signs. .................................................................................              445
       25.10. Sanitation. ..............................................................................................................       445
       25.11. Restrictions. ...........................................................................................................        446
       25.12. Equipment Operations and Pavements. .................................................................                            446
       25.13. Carpentry and Structural Maintenance. .................................................................                          455
       25.14. Protective Coating Maintenance. ...........................................................................                      460
       25.15. Plumbing Maintenance. .........................................................................................                  461
       25.16. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Maintenance. ................................................                                 464
 14                                                                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       25.17. Heating Systems and Central Heating Plant Maintenance. ....................................                                        467
       25.18. Water and Wastewater Treatment. .........................................................................                          476
       25.19. Aircraft Arresting Systems (AAS). ........................................................................                         486
       25.20. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for CE Operations. ....................................                                        491
Figure 25.1.      Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) For CE Operations. ...................................                                     491
       25.21. Civil Engineering Checklist. ..................................................................................                    496

Chapter 26—AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS AND IMPLEMENT ATTACHMENTS                                                                                       503
       26.1.      Hazards and Human Factors. .................................................................................                   503
       26.2.      Requirements. ........................................................................................................         503
       26.3.      Agricultural Tractors and Implement Attachments Checklist. ..............................                                      506

Chapter 27—WELDING, CUTTING AND BRAZING                                                                                                          509
       27.1.      Hazards and Human Factors. .................................................................................                   509
       27.2.      Acquisition. ............................................................................................................      510
       27.3.      Operating Precautions. ...........................................................................................             510
       27.4.      Welding Equipment Precautions. ...........................................................................                     512
       27.5.      Facilities. ................................................................................................................   513
       27.6.      Installed Equipment. ..............................................................................................            516
       27.7.      Clothing and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). .............................................                                516
       27.8.      Training and Qualification. ....................................................................................               518
       27.9.      Gas Leaks. ..............................................................................................................      518
       27.10. Welding Safety. .....................................................................................................              519
       27.11. Purging and Inert. ..................................................................................................              523
       27.12. Vehicle Maintenance Shops. ..................................................................................                      524
       27.13. Portable Gas Welding Units. ..................................................................................                     524
       27.14. Portable Electric Welding Units. ...........................................................................                       525
       27.15. Arc-Welding. .........................................................................................................             525
       27.16. Resistance Welding. ...............................................................................................                526
       27.17. Welding in Confined Spaces. .................................................................................                      526
       27.18. Hazards Associated with Fluxes, Coverings, Filler Metals and Base Metals. .......                                                  527
Table 27.1.       Selection of Proper Shade Number for Welding Operations. ................................                                      528
Figure 27.1.      AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit. ................................................................                            530
Table 27.2.       How To Fill Out AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit. ....................................                                        531
       27.19. Welding, Cutting and Brazing Checklist. ..............................................................                             532
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                           15



Chapter 28—INTERIOR SPRAY FINISHING                                                                                                              536
       28.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................            536
       28.2.      Safety. ....................................................................................................................   536
       28.3.      Health/Environmental Protection. ..........................................................................                    537
       28.4.      Fire Prevention and Protection. ..............................................................................                 538
       28.5.      Ventilation Systems. ..............................................................................................            539
       28.6.      Storage and Handling. ............................................................................................             540
       28.7.      Electrical. ...............................................................................................................    540
       28.8.      Location of Paint Shops, Dope Shops and Spray-Finishing Operations. ...............                                            541
       28.9.      Paint Spray Booths. ................................................................................................           541
       28.10. Compressed Air Paint Spraying. ............................................................................                        542
       28.11. Drying Ovens. ........................................................................................................             543
       28.12. Spray Painting of Aircraft. .....................................................................................                  544
       28.13. Painting Radio and Radar Equipment. ...................................................................                            544
       28.14. Electrostatic Paint Spraying. ..................................................................................                   545
       28.15. Airless Paint Spraying. ..........................................................................................                 546
       28.16. Aerosol Cans of Spray Paint. .................................................................................                     547
       28.17. Powder Coating. .....................................................................................................              548
       28.18. Organic Peroxide Coating. .....................................................................................                    548
       28.19. Interior Spray Finishing Checklist. ........................................................................                       549

Chapter 29—MISHAP PREVENTION SIGNS AND TAGS                                                                                                      555
       29.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................            555
       29.2.      Specific Information. .............................................................................................            555
       29.3.      Requirements. ........................................................................................................         556
       29.4.      AF Form 1118 and AF Form 979. .........................................................................                        560
       29.5.      Specifications For and Use of Safety, Fire Prevention and Health Tags. ..............                                          560
       29.6.      General Requirements for Use of Tags. .................................................................                        561
       29.7.      Specific Requirements For Use of Tags. ...............................................................                         562
       29.8.      Guidance for Completing Reverse Side of AF Forms 979, 980 and 982 ..............                                               564
       29.9.      Guidance for Completing Reverse Side of AF Form 981 (Figure 29.12. ..............                                              564
Figure 29.1.      Danger Sign. ..........................................................................................................        565
Figure 29.2.      Warning Sign. ........................................................................................................         565
 16                                                                                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 29.3.        Caution Sign. .........................................................................................................       566
Figure 29.4.        Directional Signs. ...................................................................................................        566
Figure 29.5.        Instruction and Identification Signs. ......................................................................                  566
Figure 29.6.        Examples of Symbol/Pictograph with a Major Message. ......................................                                    567
Figure 29.7.        Examples of Signs with Symbols/Pictographs and Message Panel. ......................                                          567
Figure 29.8.        Standard Biological Hazard Symbol. .....................................................................                      568
Figure 29.9.        AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard. .........................................................................                     568
Figure 29.10. AF Form 979, Danger Tag. ....................................................................................                       569
Figure 29.11. AF Form 980, Caution Tag. ...................................................................................                       569
Figure 29.12. AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag. ...........................................................................                          570
Figure 29.13. AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag. ...........................................................................                          570
Table 29.1.         Standard Criteria & Proportions for Locally Manufactured Signs (Letter Size
                    Versus Legibility Distance). ..................................................................................               571
Table 29.2.         Standard Proportions for Danger Signs. ................................................................                       571
Table 29.3.         Standard Proportions for Caution Signs. ...............................................................                       572
Table 29.4.         Standard Proportions for Instruction and Identification Signs. ..............................                                 572
Table 29.5.         Standard Proportions for Directional Signs. ..........................................................                        573
Table 29.6.         Examples of Color Applications. ...........................................................................                   574
Table 29.7.         Examples of Wording for Mishap Prevention Signs. ............................................                                 575
          29.10. Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags Checklist. .......................................................                              576

Chapter 30—COMMUNICATION CABLE, ANTENNA AND COMMUNICATION
            SYSTEMS                                                                                                                               577
          30.1.     General Information. ..............................................................................................           577
          30.2.     Specific Hazards. ...................................................................................................         577
          30.3.     General Safety Practices. .......................................................................................             580
          30.4.     Training. .................................................................................................................   584
          30.5.     Safety Equipment and Devices. .............................................................................                   585
          30.6.     Tools and Equipment. ............................................................................................             587
          30.7.     High Voltage. .........................................................................................................       588
          30.8.     Rubber Insulating Floor Matting. ..........................................................................                   589
          30.9.     Aerial Work. ..........................................................................................................       590
          30.10. Antenna Supports (Towers and Poles). ..................................................................                          596
          30.11. Single Phase Portable and Vehicle-Mounted Generators. .....................................                                      597
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                           17



       30.12. Repairs and Adjustments. ......................................................................................                    597
       30.13. Power Distribution Panels. .....................................................................................                   598
       30.14. Cathode Ray Tubes (CRT). ....................................................................................                      598
       30.15. Radar and Microwave Equipment. ........................................................................                            599
       30.16. Entering Manholes and Unvented Vaults. .............................................................                               600
       30.17. Cables. ....................................................................................................................       600
       30.18. Special Purpose Vehicles. ......................................................................................                   601
       30.19. Ground Controlled Approach (GCA) Radars. .......................................................                                   602
Figure 30.1.      Location of Warning Devices – Manhole Off Highway. .......................................                                     602
Figure 30.2.      Location of Warning Devices – Manhole in Two-Lane Highway. ........................                                            603
Figure 30.3.      Location of Trailer. ................................................................................................          603
Figure 30.4.      Night Warning – Arrangements of Warning Signs. ...............................................                                 603
Figure 30.5.      Night Warning – Use of Floodlights. .....................................................................                      604
       30.20. Communications Cable, Antenna and Communications Systems Checklist. ........                                                       604

Chapter 31—BATTERIES – MAINTENANCE, HANDLING AND STORAGE
            REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                         607
       31.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................            607
       31.2.      Safety. ....................................................................................................................   607
       31.3.      General Facility and Equipment Requirements for Battery Rooms and Areas. ....                                                  609
       31.4.      Fire Protection and Prevention. ..............................................................................                 611
       31.5.      Ventilation Systems. ..............................................................................................            611
       31.6.      Storage and Handling. ............................................................................................             612
       31.7.      Electrical. ...............................................................................................................    613
       31.8.      Installation and Care of Vehicle and Support Equipment Batteries. .....................                                        613
       31.9.      Aircraft Battery and Electrical System Specific Requirements. ............................                                     615
Figure 31.1.      Jump-Start Diagram. ..............................................................................................             616
       31.10. Batteries – Maintenance, Handling and Storage Requirements Checklist. ............                                                 616

Chapter 32—MOTOR VEHICLE—OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE                                                                                              618
       32.1.      Specific Hazards. ...................................................................................................          618
       32.2.      General Safety. .......................................................................................................        619
       32.3.      Occupational Health. .............................................................................................             620
       32.4.      Facility and Equipment Requirements for Vehicle Maintenance Operations. .......                                                621
 18                                                                                                        AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       32.5.      Fire Prevention. ......................................................................................................       624
       32.6.      Ventilation. ............................................................................................................     624
       32.7.      Hazardous Materials Storage and Handling. ..........................................................                          626
       32.8.      Electrical. ...............................................................................................................   627
       32.9.      Cleaning With Solvents. ........................................................................................              627
       32.10. Paint Shop. .............................................................................................................         629
       32.11. Air Compressors. ...................................................................................................              631
       32.12. Compressed Gas Cylinders. ...................................................................................                     632
       32.13. Lifting Devices. .....................................................................................................            634
       32.14. Wheel and Tire Maintenance. ................................................................................                      638
       32.15. Maintenance Operations. .......................................................................................                   644
Table 32.1.       PPE Requirements For Frequently Performed Vehicle Maintenance Operations
                  Where PPE Is Required. ........................................................................................               650
Table 32.2.       Cylinder Data for Commonly Used Gases. ............................................................                           652
Figure 32.1.      Effects of Rim Design On Proper Mounting Position. ..........................................                                 653
Figure 32.2.      Using Extension Hose to Inflate a Tire. .................................................................                     653
Figure 32.3.      Tire Inflator Cage. ..................................................................................................        654
Figure 32.4.      Trajectory for Rim and Tire Fragments. ................................................................                       655
       32.16. Motor Vehicles – Operation and Maintenance Checklist. .....................................                                       655

Chapter 33—COMPOSITE MATERIALS                                                                                                                  658
       33.1.      Hazards and Human Factors. .................................................................................                  658
       33.2.      Specific Responsibilities. .......................................................................................            658
       33.3.      General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             658
       33.4.      Specific Applications. ............................................................................................           660
       33.5.      Hazardous Waste Disposal. ...................................................................................                 661
       33.6.      Special Mishap Considerations. .............................................................................                  661
       33.7.      Use of Composite Materials in New System Acquisition, and System and Process
                  Modifications. ........................................................................................................       661
       33.8.      Composite Materials Checklist. .............................................................................                  661

Chapter 34—PRECISION MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT LABORATORY (PMEL)                                                                                    664
       34.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................           664
       34.2.      Specific Hazards. ...................................................................................................         664
       34.3.      Supervisor Responsibilities. ...................................................................................              669
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                              19



          34.4.      Ventilation Systems. ..............................................................................................            670
          34.5.      Electrical Safety for PMEL Operations. ................................................................                        670
          34.6.      Radioactive Material Safety. ..................................................................................                672
          34.7.      Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs). ..................................................................................                   673
          34.8.      Equipment/Component Cleaning. ..........................................................................                       674
          34.9.      Tools and Equipment. ............................................................................................              674
Table 34.1.          Frequently Performed PMEL Operations Where PPE is Required. ......................                                             675
          34.10. Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) Checklist. .....................                                                 676

Chapter 35—MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT                                                                                                             678
          35.1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................            678
          35.2.      Special Requirements. ...........................................................................................              680
          35.3.      Powered Industrial Trucks. ....................................................................................                682
          35.4.      Conveyors. .............................................................................................................       690
          35.5.      Manual Hoisting and Pulling Devices. ..................................................................                        692
          35.6.      Hoists. ....................................................................................................................   695
          35.7.      Slings. ....................................................................................................................   703
          35.8.      Overhead, Gantry, and Underhung Cranes and Monorail Systems. ......................                                            710
          35.9.      Mobile and Locomotive Cranes. ............................................................................                     722
          35.10. Inspection, Maintenance and Testing of Derricks. ................................................                                  735
          35.11. Related Hoisting Equipment. .................................................................................                      738
Figure 35.1.         Approved Safety Pallet. .........................................................................................              748
Figure 35.2.         Extension Forks Used With The Safety Pallet. ......................................................                            749
Figure 35.3.         High-Lift Truck. .....................................................................................................         749
Figure 35.4.         High-Lift Truck. .....................................................................................................         750
Figure 35.5.         Low-Lift Truck. .....................................................................................................          750
Figure 35.6.         Motorized Hand Truck. ..........................................................................................               751
Figure 35.7.         Industrial Tractor. ..................................................................................................         751
Figure 35.8.         Motorized Hand or Rider Truck. ...........................................................................                     752
Figure 35.9.         Reach Trucks. ........................................................................................................         752
Figure 35.10. Side-Loader Truck. ................................................................................................                   753
Figure 35.11. Order Picker Truck, High Lift. ..............................................................................                         754
Figure 35.12. Narrow-Aisle Truck (Also known as a Straddle Truck). .......................................                                          755
 20                                                                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.13. Truck, Straddle, Carry. ..........................................................................................                         756
Figure 35.14. Truck, Warehouse, Double-Handle Type, 2-Wheel, Solid Rubber Tires. .............                                                           756
Figure 35.15. Truck, Hand, Platform, 4-Wheel. ...........................................................................                                757
Figure 35.16. Crane Truck, Warehouse, Electric. ........................................................................                                 757
Figure 35.17. Crane Truck, Warehouse, Gasoline. ......................................................................                                   758
Figure 35.18. Basic Sling Configuration With Vertical Legs. .....................................................                                        759
Figure 35.19. Sling Configuration With Angled Legs. ................................................................                                     760
Figure 35.20. Basic Synthetic Web Sling Configuration. ............................................................                                      761
Figure 35.21. Hand Signals for Controlling Overhead and/or Gantry Crane Operations. ...........                                                          762
Figure 35.22. Hook Inspection Areas. ..........................................................................................                          763
Figure 35.23. Right and Wrong Way of Using Cable Clips. ........................................................                                         763
Figure 35.24. Proper Method of Installing Cable Clips. ..............................................................                                    764
Figure 35.25. Double Base Clamp. ..............................................................................................                          764
Figure 35.26. Joining Wire Ropes. ...............................................................................................                        765
Figure 35.27. Dead-Ending Rope in a Socket. .............................................................................                                765
Figure 35.28. Correct and Incorrect Way to Measure Wire Rope. ...............................................                                            766
Figure 35.29. Wire Rope Wear and Damage. ..............................................................................                                  766
Figure 35.30. Hook Showing Block Interface (Shank). ...............................................................                                      767
Table 35.1.         Maximum Safe Working Load ―A‖ Type Alloy Steel Chain Single Vertical Sling.
                     .................................................................................................................................   767
Table 35.2.          Minimum Allowable Chain Size at Any Point of Link. ........................................                                         768
Table 35.3.          Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification
                     Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Fiber Core (FC). .....................................                                          769
Table 35.4.          Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification
                     Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Independent Wire Rope Core (IWRC). ..                                                           770
Table 35.5.          Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, Cable Laid Rope - Mechanical Splice
                     Only, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7 x 19 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7 x 6 x
                     19 IWRC Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope. ...................................                                            771
Table 35.6.          Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 8-Part and 6-Part Braided Rope, 6 x 7
                     and 6 x 19 Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 Construction
                     Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope. ..........................................................................                          772
Table 35.7.          Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37
                     Classification Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Fiber Core (FC). ..............                                                  773
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                               21



Table 35.8.           Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37
                      Classification Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Independent Wire Rope
                      Core (IWRC). .........................................................................................................         774
Table 35.9.           Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, Cable Laid Rope-
                      Mechanical Splice Only, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7 x 7 x 19 Constructions Galvanized
                      Aircraft Grade Rope, 7x6x19 IWRC Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade
                      Rope. ......................................................................................................................   775
Table 35.10. Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 8-Part and 6-Part Braided
             Rope, 6 x 7 and 6 x 19 Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7
             Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope. .....................................................                                      776
Table 35.11. Rated Capacities for Strand Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked, Improved Plow Steel
             Grade Rope. ...........................................................................................................                 778
Table 35.12. Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked, 7 x 6 x 7 and 7 x 6 x 19
             Constructions Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 x 7 Construction
             Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope. ..........................................................................                              778
Table 35.13. Rated Capacities for Strand Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, Improved
             Plow Steel Grade Rope. .........................................................................................                        779
Table 35.14. Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7
             x 7 x 19 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7 x 6 x 19 IWRC
             Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope. ...................................................                                        780
Table 35.15. Rated Capacities Carbon Steel and Stainless Steel Metal Mesh Slings. ................                                                   781
Table 35.16. Manila Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds). ..................................................                                       783
Table 35.17. Nylon Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds). ...................................................                                       785
Table 35.18. Polyester Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds). ..............................................                                        786
Table 35.19. Polypropylene Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds). ......................................                                            787
Table 35.20. Synthetic Web Slings. ............................................................................................                      789
Table 35.21. Synthetic Web Slings. ............................................................................................                      789
Table 35.22. Synthetic Web Slings. ............................................................................................                      790
Table 35.23. Number of Spacing of Clips for Ropes of Various Sizes. .....................................                                            791
Table 35.24. Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling and Storage
             Equipment. .............................................................................................................                792
Table 35.25. Additional Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling
             Equipment Used for Critical and Nuclear Loads. ..................................................                                       793
           35.12. Materials Handling Equipment Checklist. .............................................................                              794

Chapter 36—HYDROCARBON FUELS                                                                                                                         798
           36.1.      Specific Hazards. ...................................................................................................          798
 22                                                                                                      AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       36.2.   Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................              801
       36.3.   Fuel Storage Systems. ............................................................................................             802
       36.4.   Fuel Servicing Operations. .....................................................................................               806
       36.5.   Fuel Laboratory Operations. ..................................................................................                 811
Table 36.1.    Maximum Allowable Size of Containers and Metal Portable Tanks For
               Flammable Liquids/Combustible Liquids. .............................................................                           815
Figure 36.1.   Safety Instructions for Fuels Laboratories (To be posted in all installation fuels
               laboratories). ..........................................................................................................      815
       36.6.   Safety Guide For Hydrocarbon Fuels. ...................................................................                        816
       36.7.   Hydrocarbon Fuels Checklist. ................................................................................                  818

Chapter 37—OFFICE/SHOP COMPUTER AND AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING
            EQUIPMENT (ADPE) AND FACILITIES                                                                                                   820
       37.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................            820
       37.2.   Desktop and Laptop Computers and Related Equipment. .....................................                                      820
       37.3.   ADPE and Facility Requirements. .........................................................................                      821
       37.4.   Office/Shop Computer and Automatic Data Processing Equipment (ADPE)
               Checklist. ...............................................................................................................     825

Chapter 38—MULTIMEDIA OPERATIONS                                                                                                              828
       38.1.   Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................              828
       38.2.   Communications. ...................................................................................................            828
       38.3.   Eyewash and Emergency Shower Units. ...............................................................                            828
       38.4.   Fire Safety and Emergency Requirements. ............................................................                           829
       38.5.   Electronic Flash Equipment. ..................................................................................                 829
       38.6.   Photography of Research Materials. ......................................................................                      829
       38.7.   Disposal of Photographic Chemicals. ....................................................................                       830
       38.8.   Multimedia Operations Checklist. .........................................................................                     830

Chapter 39—LAUNDRIES AND DRY CLEANING OPERATIONS                                                                                              832
       39.1.   Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................              832
       39.2.   Facility Requirements. ...........................................................................................             832
       39.3.   Supervisors Responsibilities. .................................................................................                834
       39.4.   Safety. ....................................................................................................................   835
       39.5.   Fire Prevention and Protection. ..............................................................................                 835
       39.6.   Storage and Handling. ............................................................................................             835
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                       23



       39.7.   Hospital/Health Care Facility Laundry. .................................................................                      836
       39.8.   Laundries and Dry Cleaning Operations Checklist. ...............................................                              836

Chapter 40—COMPRESSED GASES                                                                                                                  838
       40.1.   General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             838
       40.2.   Specific Care and Use. ...........................................................................................            838
       40.3.   Storage. ..................................................................................................................   841
       40.4.   Disposal and Shipping. ..........................................................................................             842
Table 40.1.    DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders (Data from MIL-
               STD-101B, Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders, 3
               December 1970). ....................................................................................................          843
Figure 40.1.   Examples of Typical Cylinder Parts and Markings. ..............................................                               846
Figure 40.2.   Examples of Typical Cylinder Hand Trucks. .........................................................                           847
Figure 40.3.   Examples of Properly and Improperly Securing Compressed Gas Cylinders. ......                                                 848
Figure 40.4.   Examples of Signage to be Used In/On Cylinder Storage Areas, Workplace Areas
               and for Transport. ..................................................................................................         848
       40.5.   Compressed Gases Checklist. ................................................................................                  849

Chapter 41—LODGING                                                                                                                           851
       41.1.   General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             851
       41.2.   Lodging Facilities. .................................................................................................         852
       41.3.   Specific Applications. ............................................................................................           855
       41.4.   Lodging Checklist. .................................................................................................          860

Chapter 42—NDI AND OIL ANALYSIS                                                                                                              862
       42.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................           862
       42.2.   General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             862
       42.3.   NDI Specific Requirements. ..................................................................................                 865
       42.4.   Oil Analysis Program (OAP) Specific Requirements. ...........................................                                 869
       42.5.   Aircraft Maintenance NDI Operations. ..................................................................                       869
       42.6.   NDI Equipment and Fire Protection Systems. .......................................................                            869
       42.7.   NDI and Oil Analysis Checklist. ...........................................................................                   869

Chapter 43—LIQUID NITROGEN (LN2), OXYGEN (LOX) AND CRYOGENS                                                                                  871
       43.1.   Specific Hazards. ...................................................................................................         871
       43.2.   General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             872
 24                                                                                                        AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 43.1.       Physical Properties of LN2 and LOX. ...................................................................                       873
Figure 43.1.      Cutaway Drawing of a Typical LN2 and LOX Storage Tank. ..............................                                         874
Figure 43.2.      Generating Plant Flow. ..........................................................................................             874
       43.3.      Cryogenic Facility Siting. ......................................................................................             875
Table 43.2.       Minimum Separation Distance Between Stationary Cryogenic Containers and
                  Exposure Hazards. .................................................................................................           875
       43.4.      Occupational Health. .............................................................................................            876
Table 43.3.       Minimum Separation Distances Between Bulk LOX Systems and Exposure
                  Hazards. .................................................................................................................    876
       43.5.      Safety Precautions When Working With LN2 and LOX. ......................................                                      877
       43.6.      Fire Prevention and Protection. ..............................................................................                878
       43.7.      Electrical Safety. ....................................................................................................       879
       43.8.      Housekeeping. ........................................................................................................        879
       43.9.      Receipt, Storage and Issue of LN2 or LOX. ..........................................................                          879
       43.10. Mission-limiting Weather Conditions. ...................................................................                          880
       43.11. Common Cryogenic Liquids, Their Properties and Precautions. ...........................                                           880
Table 43.4.       Common Cryogenic Liquids and Their Physical Properties. .................................                                     881
       43.12. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for LN2 and LOX Operations. ..................                                                884
Figure 43.3.      Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) For LN2 And LOX Operations. ................                                              885
       43.13. Liquid Nitrogen (LN2), Oxygen (LOX) and Cryogens Checklist. ........................                                              886

Chapter 44—FOOD SERVICE OPERATIONS                                                                                                              889
       44.1.      Specific Hazards. ...................................................................................................         889
       44.2.      General Requirements. ...........................................................................................             889
       44.3.      Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................................             890
       44.4.      Walking, Working Surfaces, Aisles and Passageways. .........................................                                  894
       44.5.      Electrical. ...............................................................................................................   895
       44.6.      Machinery and Equipment, Machine Guarding and Power Transmissions. ..........                                                 898
       44.7.      Machine Layout. ....................................................................................................          899
       44.8.      Fire Protection and Prevention. ..............................................................................                900
       44.9.      Receiving/Loading Dock. ......................................................................................                901
       44.10. Trash. .....................................................................................................................      903
Table 44.1.       Minimum Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for Food Service Operations. ...                                                  903
       44.11. Food Service Operations Checklist. .......................................................................                        904
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                     25



Chapter 45—TRAINING SYSTEMS                                                                                                                906
       45.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................         906
       45.2.   General Requirements. ...........................................................................................           907
       45.3.   Facility Requirements. ...........................................................................................          908
       45.4.   Training Systems Requirements. ...........................................................................                  910
       45.5.   Requirements of Wheeled Vehicle Egress Assistance Trainers. ...........................                                     911
       45.6.   Requirements for Aircraft Flight and Similar High Value Training Systems. ......                                            911
Figure 45.1.   Motion Base (Side View). ......................................................................................             916
Figure 45.2.   Motion Base (Top View). ......................................................................................              916
Figure 45.3.   Sprinkler System Piping (Side View) ....................................................................                    917
Figure 45.4.   Sprinkler System Piping (Top View). ....................................................................                    917
       45.7.   Upgrade of Existing Aircraft Flight and Similar High Value Training Systems. ..                                             917
       45.8.   Training Systems Checklist. ..................................................................................              917

Chapter 46—PROCESS SAFETY MANAGEMENT (PSM)                                                                                                 920
       46.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................         920
       46.2.   Application. ............................................................................................................   920
       46.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................     920
       46.4.   Associated and Corollary Guidance Documents. ..................................................                             923

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             924

Attachment 2—MINIMUM MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS FOR AERIAL LIFT
             TRAINING AND TRAINING PLANS                                                                                                   966
 26                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012



                                           Chapter 1

                                      INTRODUCTION

1.1. Purpose.
   1.1.1. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) safety guidance published in
   the Department of Labor 29 series Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) provides workers a
   safe and healthy workplace. OSHA dictates what must be accomplished in the workplace, but
   not necessarily how it will be accomplished, or by whom.
   1.1.2. Commanders are responsible for the safety of their facilities and personnel, including
   the correction of all hazards and deficiencies in their workplaces. This instruction assigns
   responsibilities to individuals or functions to help Commanders manage their safety and
   health programs, ensuring they comply with OSHA and Air Force guidance. This instruction
   provides a uniform program, which MAJCOM/Wing/Installation Commanders may
   supplement, as necessary, to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
1.2. How to Use This Document.
   1.2.1. This instruction is a consolidation of all material in the 91-series Air Force
   Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) standards relating to Air Force general operations.
   References to other Air Force publications, OSHA standards and national safety consensus
   standards are provided as appropriate.
   1.2.2. This instruction is intended for use by installation ground safety officials,
   commanders, functional managers, supervisors and workers at all levels, including Air Force
   civilians. The information in this instruction is derived from many sources and includes non-
   Air Force and Air Force directives in a single document for protection of workers and
   compliance with Federal law. Note 1: This instruction does not include state employees.
   Note 2: This instruction may contain criteria that are not fully compatible with host-nation
   safety criteria. In cases of conflict, local safety offices shall coordinate with MAJCOM
   Ground Safety office to resolve these issues.
1.3. Applying Standards. All Air Force units must comply with applicable safety guidance
during all Air Force operations. MAJCOMs, DRUs and FOAs may supplement AFOSH
guidance when additional or more stringent safety, fire prevention and health criteria are
required. When there is conflicting guidance, use the guidance that provides the most protection.
   1.3.1. The Air Force publishes industrial and general ground safety guidance as Air Force
   instructions, which implement OSHA standards. Area-specific instructions and technical data
   include other safety criteria. When AFOSH guidance or safety criteria do not cover a
   situation, use non-Air Force standards, including national consensus standards, professional
   safety and health standards, and other Federal agency standards. Air Force activities must
   comply with OSHA requirements at all times unless the military-unique exemption applies
   according to DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health Program. Note: AFOSH
   guidance must be followed at all times. They implement parts of 29 CFR, and include
   additional requirements not addressed by the OSHA standards. In addition, safety, fire
   prevention and occupational health requirements in equipment technical orders (TO) must be
   followed at all times.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        27



   1.3.2. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Requirements.
       1.3.2.1. Air Force safety officials cannot grant exemptions to OSHA standards, only DoL
       has the authority to grant exemptions to OSHA standards. Refer to AFI 91-202, Chapter
       8, for additional information. Air Force Safety Center and higher headquarters and
       installations safety offices may establish more stringent requirements than those
       established by OSHA. Note: OSHA references in this standard list the CFR number, part
       number and part title, as applicable, i.e., 29 CFR 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations
       and Emergency Response.
       1.3.2.2. Some non-OSHA requirements in this standard cannot be waived without
       specific permission of HQ AFSEC/SEG, AF/SG or HQ AFCESA/CEO/CEX, as
       appropriate. In those instances, a statement indicating who to contact is included.
1.4. Responsibilities. This paragraph describes specific responsibilities to ensure the safety of
facilities and personnel. In addition, see AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention
Program.
   1.4.1. Air Staff. All Air Staff elements shall ensure policies and procedures are consistent
   with the guidance of this instruction.
   1.4.2. Air Force Safety Center (HQ AFSEC) shall:
       1.4.2.1. Formulate and execute policy. Clarify roles, responsibilities and guidance
       applicable to all areas of safety.
       1.4.2.2. Act as approval authority for safety variances. Note: Requests for variances
       shall be processed through the Major Command (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Unit
       (DRU) or Field Operating Agency (FOA) ground safety offices, who, in turn, will
       forward to AFSEC/SEG.
   1.4.3. Major Commands (MAJCOMs), DRUs and FOAs shall provide program oversight
   and supplement safety and health guidance, as necessary.
   1.4.4. Commanders, Functional Managers and Supervisors shall:
       1.4.4.1. Ensure applicable Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) guidance for
       workplace and operations is available to all personnel.
       1.4.4.2. Ensure compliance with occupational safety, fire prevention and health program
       requirements in their areas of responsibility.
       1.4.4.3. Ensure AFOSH program requirements are part of subordinate employees‘
       performance measurements in all activities.
       1.4.4.4. Ensure pertinent OSHA documents and AFOSH guidance are available at
       installation ground safety offices. Also, commanders, functional managers and
       supervisors at OCONUS locations shall ensure applicable host-nation safety guidance is
       available. Note: Electronic or paper products are acceptable.
       1.4.4.5. Provide a safe and healthful workplace and conduct monthly self-inspections for
       hazards or deficiencies.
28                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


     1.4.4.6. Provide employees training in job safety, fire prevention and health, as required
     by OSHA and AFOSH directives, Air Force Policy Directives (AFPD), Air Force
     Instructions (AFI), Air Force Manuals (AFMAN) and any other associated directives.
     1.4.4.7. Provide employees necessary personal protective equipment (PPE) and ensure
     compliance with program requirements. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective
     Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
  1.4.5. Supervisors. Supervisors must recognize potential mishap factors in the workplace.
  Supervisors shall not require personnel to work in environments and conditions hazardous to
  their safety or health without first providing adequate engineering, administrative controls
  and/or PPE. Supervisors shall:
     1.4.5.1. Ensure safe working conditions.
     1.4.5.2. Provide necessary protective equipment.
     1.4.5.3. Ensure required guards and protective equipment are provided, used and
     properly maintained.
     1.4.5.4. Ensure tools and equipment are properly maintained and used.
     1.4.5.5. Plan the workload and assign employees only to jobs they are qualified to
     perform.
     1.4.5.6. Ensure employees understand the work to be done, the hazards that may be
     encountered and the proper procedures for doing the work safely.
     1.4.5.7. Take immediate action to correct any violation of safety rules observed or
     reported to them.
     1.4.5.8. Ensure workers exposed or potentially exposed to hazardous chemicals or
     materials are trained on the hazards of those chemicals and materials per AFI 90-821,
     Hazard Communication, including information from the Material Safety Data Sheet
     (MSDS) for each chemical or material used. However, Bioenvironmental Engineering
     (BE) and installation Ground Safety office shall be consulted for selection of PPE.
     1.4.5.9. Conduct Job Safety Analysis (JSA) of job tasks as required to ensure a safe work
     environment. Note: A JSA shall be accomplished when new equipment is installed,
     equipment is relocated or new procedures are implemented in critical or hazardous
     operations. Part of the JSA process overlaps BE efforts to link tasks to hazards and
     identifying Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH) PPE requirements. The JSA
     shall involve BE to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure proper awareness of process
     changes. Refer to paragraph 1.5 of this instruction and AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
     Mishap Prevention Program, and installation Ground Safety office for additional
     guidance.
  1.4.6. Air Force Personnel (military and civilian) shall:
     1.4.6.1. Comply with OSH guidance.
     1.4.6.2. Promptly report unsafe working conditions/activities including any safety, fire
     and health hazards and deficiencies to the supervisor.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           29



       1.4.6.3. Promptly report injuries and illnesses to the supervisor, i.e., occupational illness
       and on-duty injury to DoD military and civilian personnel, and off-duty injury to DoD
       military personnel.
       1.4.6.4. Comply with PPE requirements, including its use, inspection and care.
       1.4.6.5. Give due consideration to personal safety and the safety of fellow workers while
       performing assigned tasks.
       1.4.6.6. Ensure workers comply with required medical surveillance examinations.
1.5. Job Safety Analysis (JSA). Supervisors shall ensure JSAs are conducted on all work
processes, where appropriate, to identify potential hazards, determine appropriate PPE and
include preventative measures in procedures to mitigate the hazards. AFI 91-202 is the
prescribing directive for JSAs. General PPE requirements are also located in 29 CFR 1910.132,
Personal Protective Equipment-General Requirements. See Figures 1.1 and 1.2 for a sample
JSA and JSA Worksheet. Training or retraining may be required when a JSA is conducted. Note:
A JSA is not required when existing guidance adequately covers all safety requirements of an
operation or process.
   1.5.1. Documentation. Each work center shall conduct and document JSAs where
   appropriate. JSAs shall include the following data:
       1.5.1.1. Work procedure evaluation, to include the following elements:
          1.5.1.1.1. Basic steps of work task.
          1.5.1.1.2. Potential hazards with each step of the work task.
          1.5.1.1.3. Appropriate PPE required for work task.
          1.5.1.1.4. Preventative measures to mitigate the hazards.
          1.5.1.1.5. Recommended safe task procedures.
       1.5.1.2. Name and signature of person certifying the JSA has been performed.
   1.5.2. Training. Training shall include discussion on work task steps, potential hazards, any
   PPE requirements identified in BE and safety surveys and preventative measures to mitigate
   work task hazards. At a minimum, training should emphasize these requirements and shall
   include:
       1.5.2.1. When PPE is necessary.
       1.5.2.2. How to put on, take off, adjust and wear PPE.
       1.5.2.3. Limitations of PPE.
       1.5.2.4. Care, maintenance, useful life and disposal of PPE.
       1.5.2.5. An opportunity for each employee to demonstrate knowledge and understanding
       of training, as well as an ability to properly use PPE (hands-on training prior to work).
   1.5.3. Retraining is required when:
       1.5.3.1. Employee exhibits a lack of understanding or skill with the required work task,
       hazards involved with the work task or PPE.
 30                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       1.5.3.2. Changes in the workplace render previous training inadequate or obsolete.
       1.5.3.3. Changes in the types of PPE used render previous training inadequate or
       obsolete.
   1.5.4. Supervisor shall verify affected employees have received and understand required
   training through written certification that contains:
       1.5.4.1. Name of each employee trained.
       1.5.4.2. Dates of training.
       1.5.4.3. Subject of certification.
Note: This should be documented IAW AFI 91-202, i.e., respirator, fire extinguisher, personal
protective eye equipment.
1.6. Military-Unique and Nonmilitary-Unique Policy. The Air Force policy is to comply
with AFOSH, OSHA, DoD and other non-DoD regulatory safety and health standards and
guidance as provided under federal law and in accordance with DoD policy with respect to
military-unique and nonmilitary-unique workplaces, operations, equipment and systems.
   1.6.1. Military-Unique. The term military-unique refers to military and civilian workplaces,
   operations, equipment and systems unique to the national defense mission. This includes
   combat and operation, testing and maintenance of military-unique equipment and systems
   such as military weapons, military-unique aircraft, early warning systems, military space
   systems, ordnance and tactical vehicles. It also includes operations such as peacekeeping
   missions; field maneuvers; combat training; aerospace operations; military flight and missile
   operations; military-unique research, development, test and evaluation activities; and actions
   required under national defense contingency conditions.
       1.6.1.1. The Air Force shall apply AFOSH, OSHA, DoD and other non-DoD regulatory
       safety and health standards and guidance to military-unique workplaces, operations,
       equipment and systems in whole or in part, insofar as practicable.
       1.6.1.2. When military design, specifications or operational requirements render
       compliance with applicable standards or guidance unfeasible or inappropriate in whole or
       in part, procedures will be codified via technical orders, job guides, operations orders, a
       JSA or some other means to address residual hazards and alternative protective measures.
       1.6.1.3. The installation or wing commander, or their subordinate group commanders
       who oversee the workplace, operation, equipment or system in question, will employ the
       guidance in this instruction, DoDI 6055.1 and 29 CFR 1960 when making military-
       unique determinations.
       1.6.1.4. IAW DoDI 6055.1, OSHA representatives have no jurisdiction over military-
       unique operations or equipment. Per DoDI 6055.1, paragraph E3.5.4., OSHA and NIOSH
       officials, acting as representatives of the Secretary of Labor, are authorized to conduct
       announced or unannounced inspections of all DoD workplaces, except military-unique
       workplaces and nonmilitary-unique workplaces staffed exclusively with military
       personnel. Additionally, OSHA officials are not authorized to inspect workplaces or
       operations for compliance with any standard implementing 10 U.S.C. 172 (explosive
       safety) or 42 U.S.C., Sections 2012, 2021 or 2022 (nuclear safety).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        31



   1.6.2. Nonmilitary-Unique. The term nonmilitary-unique refers to military and civilian
   workplaces, operations, equipment and systems that are comparable generally to those of the
   private sector. Examples include facilities involved and work performed in the repair and
   overhaul of weapons, aircraft or vehicles (except for equipment trials); construction; supply
   services; civil engineer or public works; medical services; and office work. USAF shall
   comply with AFOSH, OSHA, DoD and other non-DoD regulatory safety and health
   standards and guidance with respect to nonmilitary-unique workplaces, operations,
   equipment and systems, regardless of whether work is performed by military or civilian
   personnel.
1.7. National Consensus Standards. Select committees of federal, industrial and private sector
personnel develop these standards under the sponsorship of one of the national standards-setting
organizations. Examples are: American National Standards Institute (ANSI), National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME).
National consensus standards are not directive, unless adopted by a regulatory federal agency or
the Air Force. Note: National consensus standards referenced in this document have been
adopted for Air Force use and list the standard, part/document number and part/document title, as
applicable. Examples are: ANSI B71.1, Outdoor Power Equipment – Walk-Behind Mowers and
Ride-on Machines with Mowers – Safety Specifications, and NFPA 70, National Electrical Code.
1.8. Medical Facilities. Medical facilities and operations shall follow guidance contained in
this instruction (AFI 91-203), and maintain a safety program compatible with The Joint
Commission or the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) standards,
as applicable. Typically, installation hospitals shall follow guidance provided by The Joint
Commission and clinics shall follow guidance provided by AAAHC. The safety program within
medical facilities and operations shall also meet NFPA Codes and Standards, pertinent federal
regulations and national consensus standards.
1.9. Qualified Person. A qualified person is one who has been designated by the commander or
designated representative and by reason of training, experience or instruction has demonstrated
the ability to perform duties at a required level of competence. The qualified person shall be
trained to recognize hazards of an operation and evaluate those anticipated hazards. The
definition of a qualified person may vary depending on discipline. However, the prerequisites
required to become a qualified person rest with the supervisor and shall be documented in
appropriate training records.
1.10. Documentation. This instruction specifies use of AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical
Data, AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record, or other appropriate inspection,
maintenance and general purpose forms for documenting maintenance and inspection actions.
With expanding use of automated systems for tracking these activities, requiring specific paper
forms may impede use of more efficient automated processes. Therefore, use of automated
systems for documenting inspections, maintenance and other activities is acceptable in place of
specified AFTO Forms 95 and 244 or other appropriate inspection, maintenance and general
purpose forms. Electronic signatures or other unique personal identifiers (not initials) are
acceptable. While this instruction eliminates the requirement for paper forms, MAJCOMs,
NAFs, local procedures, Technical Orders and other Air Force guidance may continue to require
use of these forms. Please check the prescribing directive(s) before discontinuing use of any
forms. Maintenance units shall follow documentation guidance in AFI 21-101, Aircraft and
 32                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Equipment Maintenance Management, and 00-20 series TOs, and lock out/tag out requirements
in Chapter 21. Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) maintenance units shall follow
documentation guidance in AFI 21-202V1, Missile Maintenance Management.
1.11. Variances and Exemptions. The affected work center shall process a request for variance
or exemption when it is impossible to meet AFOSH guidance due to operational needs, mission
impact or technical reasons. When requesting a variance or exemption, the work center
leadership must identify and implement interim control measures to reduce the degree of risk
associated with the hazard in order to protect personnel, equipment and/or property. The process
for requesting a variance or exemption is provided in AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap
Prevention Program.
   1.11.1. AFSEC may grant a variance or exemption to AFOSH guidance that is more
   stringent than OSHA standards, whereas only OSHA can grant variances or exemptions to
   Title 29 (OSHA) requirements. Requests for variances or exemptions shall be forwarded
   through the MAJCOM safety office to AFSEC. If the request for variance or exemption is to
   an OSHA standard, the AFSEC will serve as the liaison between OSHA and the Air Force
   requester.
   1.11.2. Variances are temporary and are granted with the understanding that permanent
   control measures are planned and will be in place within a time period not to exceed five
   years. Exemptions grant permanent relief from a requirement and can be approved when the
   applicant can substantiate their proposed methods, equipment or facilities protect the worker
   as well or better than the AFOSH guidance or OSHA standards. Note: A unit‘s inability to
   fund corrective action does not constitute sufficient justification to request a variance or
   exemption. Request extensions for variances through the MAJCOM safety office to HQ
   AFSEC/SEG.
   1.11.3. The installation Ground Safety office, with assistance from the affected work center,
   will assemble a thorough and detailed staff package with the following attributes.
       1.11.3.1. Clearly defines the safety-related variance or exemption being requested, i.e., a
       description of the situation identifying the AFOSH guidance/publication, paragraph and
       specific reason(s) compliance is not possible.
       1.11.3.2. States the rationale why the AFOSH guidance/publication cannot be followed.
       1.11.3.3. A description and risk assessment of permanent control measures planned, date
       they will be in place, plus identify interim control measures used to protect personnel,
       equipment or property, or used to mitigate the risk or hazard.
       1.11.3.4. Identifies the number of personnel exposed and protected by interim control
       measures relative to the operation or condition on a regular basis, and any major items of
       Air Force property involved.
       1.11.3.5. A Job Safety Analysis (JSA) will be conducted on all work processes, where
       appropriate, to identify potential hazards, preventative measures in procedures to mitigate
       the hazards and proper personal protective equipment (PPE), if required.
       1.11.3.6. In the case of a variance request, spells out a way ahead to resolve the problem,
       or a description of why it is believed the problem cannot be resolved.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           33



       1.11.3.7. In the case of an exemption request, spells out how the proposed methods,
       equipment or facilities protect the worker as well or better than the AFOSH guidance.
       1.11.3.8. Proposes a plan to remedy the problem.
       1.11.3.9. Includes drawings, photographs, maps, etc. to clearly and thoroughly document
       all of the above.
   1.11.4. Installation safety office will then forward the request to the appropriate MAJCOM
   safety office through appropriate command channels.
   1.11.5. The MAJCOM safety staff reviews and, if recommended for approval, forwards
   requests to AFSEC/SEG (safety-related issues), AFCESA/CC (fire prevention-related issues)
   or AFMOA/SGZ (health-related issues), as appropriate, for final approval. Note: Requests
   received without MAJCOM coordination will be returned to requestor without action.
   1.11.6. The appropriate agency will review the request for merit and adherence to the
   requirements stipulated in Step 3. In the case of requests for variance or exemption to Air
   Force standards the MAJCOM/SEG will be notified of approval or non-approval.
   1.11.7. The MAJCOM/installation Ground Safety Manager (GSM) will maintain a master
   file of approved variances or exemptions that apply to the installation/MAJCOM/AF as long
   as they are in effect and for one year thereafter. The GSM will distribute copies of variances
   and exemptions to the appropriate fire, health and functional managers, as needed.
   1.11.8. Functional managers must inform and train affected employees personnel and
   employee representatives on approved variances, exemptions, or any special procedures
   required. This training will be documented. Copies of the variance or exemption will be
   posted in affected work areas until integrated in the JST guide.
1.12. First Aid, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Bloodborne Pathogen (BBP)
Training. Workers who perform duties with risk of cuts, burns or electrocution, or perform
duties in remote locations away from emergency medical responders (911/fire
department/ambulance), will have a plan for immediate medical response pending definitive
transfer and care. Workers who may be expected to provide immediate medical response will
receive training in first aid to include bleeding control and bloodborne pathogens awareness,
shock management and emergency care of persons having open wounds and burns. In particular,
workers who install, maintain, relocate or inspect communications systems, work with high-
voltage systems, or perform duties as safety observers will receive this training. Initial first aid
and CPR training shall be accomplished with 30 days after an individual is assigned. All workers
requiring CPR training will receive refresher training before current CPR certification expires.
Workers not passing certification tests will repeat training at least annually, and supervisors
should mitigate risk by having workers who have passed certification tests be available during
higher risk and more remote activities. Whether by the local Medical Group, the American Red
Cross or other appropriate organization, CPR training shall be provided for unit instructors, who,
in turn, will train unit personnel. If CPR training is not provided by the host medical facility,
instructor training shall be obtained from an approved source, i.e., American Red Cross,
American Heart Association, military network, etc. Note: Universal precautions must be
observed. Infection control requires the supervisor and worker to assume that all human blood
and specified human body fluids are infectious for HBV, HIV and other bloodborne pathogens.
 34                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Where differentiation of types of body fluids is difficult, all body fluids are to be considered as
potentially infectious. Any person in the performance of their duties who could reasonably be
expected to come in contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials must be trained
IAW 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens.

Figure 1.1. Job Safety Analysis Guide.
JOB:                                                   DATE:
WORKCENTER:                                            SUPERVISOR:
TITLE OF WORKER WHO PERFORMS TASK:
REQUIRED PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE):
ANALYSIS BY:                                           REVIEWED BY:
F1.1. Sequence of Basic Steps. Break the task down into its basic steps. For example, what is
done first, what is done next, etc. You can do this by: (1) observing the task, (2) discussing it
with workers, (3) using your experience and knowledge of the task or (4) a combination of all
three. Record task steps in the task in their normal order of occurrence. Describe what is done;
not the details or how it is done. Three or four words are normally enough to describe each task
step.
F1.2. Potential Mishap Causes or Hazards. For each task step, ask yourself what mishap
could happen to workers performing the task and what the probability would be of the mishap
occurring. Get the answers by: (1) observing the task, (2) discussing the task with workers and/or
(3) using ―lessons learned‖ from other mishaps. Ask the questions:
F1.2.1. Can workers be struck by or contacted by anything?
F1.2.2. Can they strike against or be exposed to any item that can cause injury?
F1.2.3. Can they be caught in or between anything?
F1.2.4. Can they fall?
F1.2.5. Can they overexert themselves?
F1.2.6. Are they required to do repetitive lifting or heavy lifting?
F1.2.7. Are there potential hazards such as chemical substances, physical agents (including
noise, ergonomic and thermal stress), ionizing and non-ionizing radiation or biological
exposures?
F1.3. Recommended Safe Task Procedure. For each potential mishap cause or hazard
identified, consider the following questions:
F1.3.1. How should workers perform the task step to avoid a mishap or eliminate the potential
hazard?
F1.3.2. What can be done to eliminate or mitigate the hazard by redesigning the work area or
equipment?
F1.3.3. How can the procedure be modified to eliminate the hazard? Note: Be sure to describe
in detail the precautions workers must take and ensure that these steps are placed in the task
procedure or checklist. Take special care to ensure important steps or details are not
inadvertently omitted from the task and that guidance is clear, specific and easily understood by
workers. Also, the JSA shall include the requirements in paragraph 1.5.1.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                     35



JOB SAFETY ANALYSIS WORKSHEET

Figure 1.2. Job Safety Analysis Worksheet.
JOB: _________________________________________ DATE: ___________________
WORKCENTER: _______________________________ SUPERVISOR: _____________
TITLE OF WORKER WHO PERFORMS TASK: ________________________________
REQUIRED PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE): _____________________
ANALYSIS BY: ______________________ REVIEWED BY: ______________________

                     Job Safety Analysis Worksheet
1. SEQUENCE OF BASIC 2. POTENTIAL HAZARDS 3. RECOMMENDED
   STEPS:               OR MISHAP CAUSES:          PROCEDURES OR
                                                   ACTIONS:
 36                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012



                                           Chapter 2

                                     HUMAN FACTORS

2.1. Human Factors. Human factors are not just about humans. It is about how features of
people‘s tools, tasks and working environment systemically influence human performance.
Mishaps are rarely attributed to a single cause, or in most cases, even a single individual. Every
organization should work to identify what factors and conditions create potential hazards, and
if/when a mishap occurs, determine why and how to prevent it from happening again. For
additional information on human factors and human error, refer to AFI 91-204, Safety
Investigations and Reports, Attachment 5.
   2.1.1. Physiological factors such as unhealthy emotions, job or domestic pressures,
   distractions, job knowledge, shift-work, hurrying or feeling rushed can contribute to an
   unsafe attitude and negatively impact worker performance. Examples include workers:
       2.1.1.1. With insufficient training and lack of awareness, i.e., inattention to tasks and
       lack of familiarity with the work area.
       2.1.1.2. Ignoring directions from supervisors and work leaders.
       2.1.1.3. Failing to use personal protective equipment (PPE) or proper tools.
       2.1.1.4. Performing a task while distracted by personal problems or interpersonal
       situations.
       2.1.1.5. Using equipment when not properly trained or qualified.
       2.1.1.6. Being unaware of the hazardous properties of flammable and combustible
       liquids or materials and their proper control. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard
       Communication, for additional information. CAUTION: Complying with and reading
       instructions on Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) or labels of cleaning products can
       prevent mixing of incompatible products.
   2.1.2. Physical factors such as fatigue, strength limits, lack of sleep, ergonomic design
   constraints, and the influence of alcohol/drugs may contribute to behavior that leads to a
   mishap. Examples include workers:
       2.1.2.1. Not following established procedures or taking unauthorized shortcuts to save
       time.
       2.1.2.2. Performing job tasks while taking prescribed medications that may cause
       drowsiness.
       2.1.2.3. Performing job tasks while under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs.
       2.1.2.4. Exposed to moving parts that can get clothing, hair or body parts caught in the
       machinery. The potential for a machine-related mishap is greater when a worker is
       physically fatigued.
   2.1.3. Organizational factors such as inadequate staffing, emphasis on production over safety
   and lack of workplace supervision can also lead to a mishap. Examples include many of the
   errors listed in paragraphs 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 above.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         37



2.2. Responsibilities. Managers, supervisors and workers must be aware of human factors such
as fatigue, worry, anger, inattention, illness or improper attitudes that can lead to worker error
and may result in injury. Engineers, functional managers and supervisors can, in some cases,
mitigate the effects of human factors in the workplace by considering personnel exposure and
work processes when placing machinery and equipment in the workplace. The supervisor shall
ensure ear plugs fit the individual prior to employee use. Personnel not actually involved in the
work, but within the area affected by the noise, shall also be provided hearing protection. If
process not already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment.
2.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities.
   2.3.1. IAW AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, BE
   accomplishes occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments. These
   assessments identify sources of inherent health risk, to include chemical, biological,
   radiological, noise, ergonomic stress, thermal stress and physical threats/hazards. BE
   recommends controls to mitigate health risks associated with identified health
   threats/hazards. Controls options include engineering and administrative controls or the use
   of PPE. When different guidance (BE survey reports, technical orders, AF instructions,
   OSHA Standards, etc.) prescribes different levels of PPE, personnel shall contact the
   installation BE to determine the most appropriate level of protective equipment.
   2.3.2. BE shall identify hazardous noise areas and recommend appropriate control or
   protective measures IAW AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing
   Conservation Program. Newly acquired equipment which generates potentially hazardous
   noise shall be evaluated by BE within 30 days of its reciept in the workcenter. When noise
   level surveys identify a need for hearing protection, ear plugs or ear muffs (or both) shall be
   provided by their organization to affected personnel and their use strictly enforced by
   supervision.
 38                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 3

                                   PHYSICAL HAZARDS

3.1. Hazards.
   3.1.1. Before considering the use of PPE, hazards shall be engineered out, substituting a less
   hazardous material or less hazardous process, isolating operations, providing work-around
   procedures, rearranging or moving elevated or tall objects or furniture, or providing
   administrative controls whenever possible. The use of protective equipment is considered the
   least preferred method of controlling hazards and shall not be relied on alone to protect
   against hazards. Protective equipment shall be used in conjunction with guards, engineering
   controls and sound manufacturing practices. When PPE will be used to protect workers from
   physical hazards, consider that eye, face and body injuries may be caused by exposure to
   chemicals, materials thrown from machines and when substances are propelled by air
   pressure or similar energy sources. Eye and face injuries may occur when liquids are sprayed,
   squirted, splattered, dropped or applied. When PPE is required, it must be matched to the
   identified hazards. This is accomplished by reviewing the JSA and material safety data sheets
   (MSDS) for the task. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), or contact
   the installation Ground Safety office or BE for assistance. Eyewash units, eye/face units,
   deluge showers and similar devices are emergency equipment and are not substitutes for
   protective devices. Refer to Chapter 19, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units, for
   additional guidance.
   3.1.2. Examples of physical hazards include:
      3.1.2.1. Soaps and solvents can cause slippery surfaces and lead to slips and falls.
      Contact can also cause health problems such as dermatitis and eye irritation. Other
      medical problems can occur if soaps and solvents are inhaled.
      3.1.2.2. Some cleaning solvents may ignite if heated or applied to hot surfaces, causing
      fires and/or injuries to workers.
      3.1.2.3. Pressure cleaners and steam cleaners operate at pressures in excess of 100
      pounds per square inch (psi) and temperatures near 200 degrees Fahrenheit (F) and can
      cause severe burns, scalds, and penetrate skin.
      3.1.2.4. Flying or falling objects may pose hazards in the work area.
      3.1.2.5. Improper Lifting. Refer to Chapter 4, Manual Material Handling and Lifting
      Techniques, for additional guidance and information.
      3.1.2.6. Skin contact with natural elements such as poison ivy, poison oak or foreign
      substances that may cause irritations or adverse reactions to an individual.
      3.1.2.7. Inhalation. This is the most common method of worker exposure to potential
      contaminants. The exposure levels and type of respiratory protection required are based
      on the recognized safe exposure levels to contaminants known or suspected to be in the
      workplace. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, for
      additional guidance and information.
      3.1.2.8. Poor lighting.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         39



       3.1.2.9. Radiation. Ionizing and non-ionizing are the two basic types of radiation.
       Radiation safety shall be a part of the installation safety program. 29 CFR 1910.1096,
       Ionizing Radiation, and AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, list requirements for
       working in an area with ionizing radiation. Non-ionizing radiation includes most RF
       energy sources, light sources and lasers. Protection levels and requirements are outlined
       in AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, and AFOSH Standard
       48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program.
       3.1.2.10. Thermal Injuries. Temperatures can vary depending on work location and/or
       environment. Hot and cold temperatures can cause thermal injuries that threaten life and
       limb, and serious mission degradation or failure. Cold temperatures can cause
       dehydration, slowing of reflexes, freezing and non-freezing cold injuries such as frost-
       bite, trench-foot, hypothermia or death. Hot temperatures can cause heat illness,
       exhaustion, cramps, heat stress and even death. Personnel newly assigned to a work
       location may be highly susceptible to thermal injuries until they are acclimated to the new
       work location and environment. Periodic breaks are recommended when working outside
       in extreme cold or heat. Refer to AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury, for guidance and
       additional information on thermal injuries and their prevention/treatment.
       3.1.2.11. Noise can cause hearing loss or prevent hearing of warning signals. Noise shall
       be controlled at the source when feasible. When control methods fail to bring exposure
       within allowable limits, appropriate hearing protection, such as ear muffs, ear plugs or
       both, shall be worn when required or working in hazardous noise environments.
       Identified hazardous noise sources shall be labeled (where possible) with the appropriate
       Air Force Visual Aid (AFVAs 48-101, 48-103, 48-104 and/or 48-105) to warn operators
       to wear hearing protection. BE conducts OEH risk assessments, then recommends
       appropriate engineering controls, administrative actions or PPE. Refer to AFOSH 48-20,
       Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program, for additional guidance.
3.2. Housekeeping. Quality housekeeping, personal appearance, work habits, condition of
equipment and job organization directly contribute to safe and efficient workplace operations.
Refer to Chapter 5, Housekeeping, for additional guidance.
 40                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                            Chapter 4

           MANUAL MATERIAL HANDLING AND LIFTING TECHNIQUES

4.1. Special Requirements (Hazards and Human Factors). Strains, sprains, hernias,
fractures, bruises and lacerations may result from poor manual material handling and lifting
practices. Lifting, carrying, dropping and lowering are the common physical acts responsible for
these injuries. Many strains result from improper lifting techniques, lifting with no assistance or
failure to use required and available manual material handling equipment.
4.2. Manual Handling. Influencing factors when manually lifting materials include the size,
shape and weight of the object to be lifted, and distance to be moved. Proper lifting techniques
are as important as the weight of the object. Heavy materials or awkward positions may require
mechanical assistance or team lifting be used. Refer to paragraph 4.6.3 for additional guidance
on team lifting.
4.3. Lifting and Carrying. Several variables influence a worker‘s ability to manually handle
and lift materials. Physical capabilities of the individual and variables in the work environment
need consideration. Proper consideration and knowledge of worker limitations and the use of
correct lifting and carrying techniques will reduce the possibility of injury.
   4.3.1. Physical characteristics include factors such as strength, mobility, fatigue and motor
   functions of the individual.
   4.3.2. Psychological considerations include the motivation, emotional state, job satisfaction
   and attitude of the individual toward work.
   4.3.3. Pre-existing worker injuries should also be considered, if known.
   4.3.4. Task variables include the weight, size, shape, distribution, degree of shift (of the load
   in the container) and the location of the center of gravity (CG) of the load to be handled.
   4.3.5. Workplace layout and the degree of movement required, obstacles, distances moved
   and direction of movement shall be considered.
   4.3.6. Level of demand to include frequency of lift, duration of lifting task, accelerations and
   velocities of lift, shift duration, degree of precision and relative proportion of muscles
   involved in the lift shall be considered.
   4.3.7. Environmental variables such as heat and cold stress, noise and vibration, lighting,
   toxic agents, traction, stability of the work platform and atmospheric contaminants shall also
   be considered.
4.4. Training. Supervisors shall ensure their workers receive thorough instruction and training
on proper manual lifting techniques both routine or high risk and any PPE required. In addition,
workers shall be instructed in the use of available manual lifting devices. To the new worker,
hand trucks and wheelbarrows look deceptively easy to use. Supervisors shall instruct workers
on their use. Improvements in work methods, eliminating manual material handling hazards and
understanding the stresses involved during manual handling are important and need to be
addressed during training. This training shall include both verbal and written materials that
explain how to do the task correctly with practice and proper motions. Training shall be
documented IAW AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program. Additional
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          41



information on establishing a program may be found in this chapter and in the National Safety
Council (NSC) Accident Prevention Manual for Industrial Operations, Engineering, and
Technology. Supervisors may contact the installation Public Health (PH) office for assistance in
developing the program and to review the NSC publication. The supervisor shall consider having
personnel evaluated for physical fitness for duty when job tasks require continuous manual
lifting. Workers with physical profile changes shall be evaluated for possible reassignment to
prevent recurring injuries.
4.5. Minimizing Manual Material Handling Hazards.
   4.5.1. Engineering Controls. The preferred method to minimize risks of manual lifting is the
   use of engineering controls/mechanical assists to decrease force, repetition, distance of travel
   and frequency of manual handling activities. Some examples include use of scissor tables,
   elevators, conveyors and gravity chutes.
   4.5.2. Administrative Controls. Job rotation schedules and mandatory work-rest cycles can
   be used to reduce mishap potential, but do not eliminate the hazard and are not as reliable as
   engineering controls.
   4.5.3. Work Design Principles. Conduct a JSA (refer to Figure 1.1) to identify potential
   hazards and, when practical, arrange tasks and select workstations using the following
   principles: (Note: A JSA is not required when existing guidance adequately covers all safety
   requirements of an operation or process.)
       4.5.3.1. Place objects to be lifted at the approximate height of the knuckles when the
       arms dangle at side of the body.
       4.5.3.2. Place object as close to the body as possible.
       4.5.3.3. Do not twist the back while picking up, putting down, carrying or changing
       direction with an object. When rotating, rotate with the hip joint. Crouch down while
       keeping the object close in to lower the object.
       4.5.3.4. Limit stack height to shoulder level. If items must be stacked higher, provide
       step-up access to eliminate lifting above shoulder level.
       4.5.3.5. Use grips, handles and other devices to provide better control of items.
       4.5.3.6. Slide materials instead of lifting, whenever possible.
       4.5.3.7. Use gravity assist in moving materials.
       4.5.3.8. Ensure adequate maneuvering space to eliminate the need to twist the body.
       4.5.3.9. Team lifting will be used when items are known to weigh more than 25 pounds
       or when items are lifted from an awkward position or location. Refer to paragraph 4.6.3
       for additional guidance on team lifting.
4.6. Proper Lifting Methods. No single technique exists to prevent injury during lifting and
material handling. The best prevention strategy is to utilize effective ergonomic techniques, i.e.,
ensure workstations are properly designed, loads are manageable in both size and weight
distribution, the frequency and duration of lifting are not excessively stressful and workers can
demonstrate a knowledge of proper techniques for material handling. There are three basic
 42                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


methods of lifting: straight back-bent knees, free style and kinetic. Each has advantages and
limitations. Refer to Figure 4.1 for an illustration of proper lifting technique.
   4.6.1. The kinetic method is the most widely accepted and taught because it provides more
   stability for the worker while reducing load on the back muscles and intervertebral disks.
       4.6.1.1. Inspect the object before lifting to make certain no grease or slippery substance
       will cause the object to slip. Also inspect the object for slivers, sharp edges and rough or
       slippery surfaces before attempting to lift.
       4.6.1.2. Position feet correctly. Place feet far enough apart for balance with one foot to
       the rear of the object and the other foot slightly ahead of the other foot and to the side of
       the object.
       4.6.1.3. Crouch close to the load. Stay close to the load to minimize strain on the back
       muscles.
       4.6.1.4. Always keep the back as straight as possible. It may not be possible to keep the
       back in the vertical plane but avoid arching the back. Bend from the hips and not from the
       middle of the back.

Figure 4.1. How to Lift Properly.




       4.6.1.5. Pick up materials with a full palm grip. Do not attempt to pick up items using a
       fingertip grip. Gloves (leather or leather-palmed) shall be worn when lifting objects
       which have sharp or burred edges, or splintered surfaces.
       4.6.1.6. With the arms, slide the object towards the body putting it in motion (kinetic
       energy). At the same time, lift the object with the legs and bring the back to a vertical
       position. Keep the object close to the body; avoid twisting while lifting.
   4.6.2. Setting the Object Down. Use the same motion as when lifting, but reverse it to set an
   object down. Lower the load by bending the legs and crouching with the back straight. Take
   care when releasing the load to prevent injury to fingers, hands or feet.
   4.6.3. Team Lifting. Always seek and obtain assistance, when it is necessary to move heavy
   or unusually shaped items manually. Assign additional workers to the task when it is not
   practical to use mechanical equipment. When two or more people are required to move or
   carry an object, adjust the load so each person carries an equal part. If possible, use workers
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         43



   similar in size and train them in team-lifting. Workers need to understand that if one worker
   lifts too soon, shifts the load, or lowers improperly, that person or their partner(s) may be
   overloaded and strained. Test lifts should be made before proceeding. The key to lifts using
   two or more people is to make every move in unison. Assign one person to give orders to
   ensure the necessary coordination for movement. The supervisor and workers are responsible
   for assessing all available methods to safely handle materials and for using mechanical
   assistance whenever possible.
4.7. Carrying Methods. Acceptable carrying methods differ based upon the type of material,
distance and number of workers. Workers should be instructed during initial training in each
procedure. For example: neck, shoulder, side, tray, two-person, under-arm carry methods, etc.
   4.7.1. Points to remember:
       4.7.1.1. Use appropriate PPE for each task, such as gloves and protective footwear, as
       required by paragraph 14.4.10.
       4.7.1.2. Keep fingers away from pinch and shear points.
       4.7.1.3. Make sure the path of travel is clear.
       4.7.1.4. Do not carry a load that obstructs the view of the direction of travel.
       4.7.1.5. Do not twist with the back to change direction or put an object down. When
       rotating, rotate with the hip joint. Crouch down while keeping the object close in to lower
       the object.
   4.7.2. Following are descriptions of various types of carrying methods:
       4.7.2.1. Neck Carry Method. In this method, the material is carried on the back of the
       neck and shoulders with both arms lifted to shoulder height and the hands grasping the
       sides or top of the load.
       4.7.2.2. Should Carry Method. The load rests on one shoulder with the near arm helping
       to support the weight and the other arm brought across the body to steady the load.
       4.7.2.3. Side Hand Carry Method. This is simply the suitcase method and can be used
       only where the load may be grasped by a handle or equivalent.
       4.7.2.4. Tray Carry Method. The material is carried in front of the abdomen with both
       hands placed under the bottom surface and the body serving as the balancer.
       4.7.2.5. Two Person Carry Method. A load is carried by two people who use oral signals
       to coordinate their movements. They decide on appropriate emergency signals to be
       given if the grasp of either person should slip. They walk in step to coordinate their
       movements.
       4.7.2.6. Under-arm Carry Method. The material is carried under one arm with the other
       arm brought across in front of the body to steady and balance the load. Also called Side
       Under-arm Carry Method.
4.8. Carrying Items Up or Down Stairways:
   4.8.1. Adhere to the guidance provided by the supervisor.
 44                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   4.8.2. Try to reduce the bulk or size of the object carried to allow for maximum visibility.
   4.8.3. Use assistance when required and available.
   4.8.4. Use mechanical material handling equipment whenever loads are too heavy or bulky
   to be lifted or carried efficiently or safely by hand.
4.9. Manual Material Handling Equipment (MHE). This equipment shall be used whenever
loads are too heavy or bulky to be lifted or carried efficiently or safely by hand. Hand trucks,
dollies, two-wheeled hand trucks and wheelbarrows (when properly used) simplify materials
handling and greatly reduce the hazards of handling supplies and equipment.
   4.9.1. Hand Trucks, Dollies and Wheelbarrows. Hand trucks, dollies, wheelbarrows or other
   manual devices shall be used to lift and/or carry bulky or heavy items whenever possible.
   Apply the following basic principles when using this equipment:
       4.9.1.1. Tip the load to be lifted forward slightly so the tongue of the handling equipment
       goes under the load.
       4.9.1.2. Make sure the tongue of the hand truck is all the way under the load prior to
       movement.
       4.9.1.3. Keep the center of gravity of the load as low as possible. Place heavy objects at
       the bottom of the load. Keep feet clear of the wheels.
       4.9.1.4. The center of gravity of the load on both the hand truck and wheelbarrow shall
       be kept as low as possible. The weight should be forward so it will be carried by the axle,
       not the handles. If loaded correctly, the material handling equipment should carry the
       load—the operator need only balance and push.
       4.9.1.5. Place the load so it will not slip, shift or fall. Load only to a height that allows a
       clear view ahead. For added safety, strap or chain bulky or dangerous cargo, such as
       cylinders or drums, to the handling equipment‘s frame.
       4.9.1.6. Avoid walking backward with handling equipment if possible. This eliminates
       the need for workers to look over their shoulder to see clearly.
       4.9.1.7. Never brake handling equipment by putting your foot on a wheel; keep your feet
       clear of the wheels at all times.
       4.9.1.8. Move the handling equipment at a safe speed. Do not run. Keep the handling
       equipment constantly under control.
       4.9.1.9. When handling equipment is loaded in a horizontal position, proper lifting
       procedures discussed in paragraph 4.6 shall be used to prevent operator injury.
       4.9.1.10. Two-wheeled hand trucks and wheelbarrows are designed in a variety of shapes
       and sizes for both general and special purposes. Preference shall be given to procuring
       hand trucks and wheelbarrows equipped with knuckle guards.
       4.9.1.11. Secure and store unused trucks in a designated area where they don't create a
       hazard or traffic obstruction.
   4.9.2. Multi-Wheel Trucks. As with two-wheeled equipment, multi-wheeled trucks and
   dollies vary greatly in design and use. Most mishaps occur due to improper parking, causing
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           45



  the worker to fall over the equipment, or improper loading of material, which causes the cart
  to tip. Extra emphasis shall be placed on worker training in these two areas, along with
  frequent observation of work practices to immediately correct unsafe acts. In addition:
     4.9.2.1. When loading, arrange the cargo so items won‘t fall.
     4.9.2.2. If the truck has no drawbar, push it. Keep hands behind the cart.
     4.9.2.3. If the truck has a drawbar, pull it, to allow for a better line of sight. Stand to one
     side to keep the truck from running into ankles.
     4.9.2.4. If there are floor markings, stay within their boundaries.
     4.9.2.5. When storing the truck, lock or block its wheels.
     4.9.2.6. Don‘t misuse the truck.
     4.9.2.7. Don‘t ride on a truck designed for a walking operator.
     4.9.2.8. Don‘t carry other people on the truck.
     4.9.2.9. Don‘t exceed the truck‘s maximum load capacity.
     4.9.2.10. Ensure the weight of the truck, plus its load, does not exceed posted floor loads.
     4.9.2.11. Ensure adequate clearance in aisles and other tight areas.
     4.9.2.12. Remember that the momentum of a truck can make it hard to change speed or
     direction.
     4.9.2.13. Watch for pedestrians—always give them the right-of-way.
     4.9.2.14. Don‘t block aisles, doorways or material another worker may need.
  4.9.3. Lever-Operated Hoists.
     4.9.3.1. Acquisition. Lever-operated hoists shall meet industry standard requirements
     and specifications.
         4.9.3.1.1. Capacity of all lever-operated devices shall be permanently and
         conspicuously marked in an easily visible place on the hoist.
         4.9.3.1.2. Only ratchet and pawl, and load brake hoists, with a means to prevent a
         suspended load from self-lowering, shall be procured. Lowering under load shall be
         by operation of the hoist lever.
     4.9.3.2. Inspections. Daily or prior to each use, lever-operated hoists shall be inspected
     for:
         4.9.3.2.1. Loose or worn parts, nuts, bolts, etc.
         4.9.3.2.2. Cracked or broken welds or parts.
         4.9.3.2.3. Deformed or damaged hooks or chain.
         4.9.3.2.4. Bent or deformed pawls.
     4.9.3.3. An annual inspection shall be conducted on all MHE. The inspection shall
     include:
46                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


        4.9.3.3.1. Complete inspection of all wire rope, chain and fittings or attachments.
        4.9.3.3.2. Inspection of brakes, pawls or other holding features.
        4.9.3.3.3. Inspection of the chain length. Chains that have elongated more than one
        fourth of an inch in 12 inches or as required by TO or manufacturer‘s instruction shall
        be removed from service.
     4.9.3.4. Identification Tags. Identification tags shall be attached to all hoists and shall
     include the following information: date of inspection, date of proof test, capacity of hoist
     and identification number of hoist.
     4.9.3.5. Maintenance and Testing.
        4.9.3.5.1. All new hoists shall have the manufacturer‘s certification indicating that all
        proof-testing has been accomplished. All hoists which have had load-suspension parts
        altered, replaced or repaired shall be proof-tested before use. These tests shall be
        performed at no less than 100 percent or more than 125 percent of the rated capacity.
        Underhung hoists that are not an integral part of a supporting structure for lateral
        movement, such as an overhead crane, must have manufacturer‘s certification
        indicating the proof test was accomplished with a test load of at least 125 percent of
        rated capacity. A record of all tests shall be maintained by the user. Refer to ANSI
        B30.16., Overhead Hoists, for additional information.
        4.9.3.5.2. Maintenance and lubrication shall be performed IAW the manufacturer‘s
        instruction or applicable TO.
     4.9.3.6. Safe Operations.
        4.9.3.6.1. Lever-operated hoists shall only be used in a direct pull. A sheave or pulley
        of adequate size shall be used where indirect pulls are permitted by design of the
        hoist.
        4.9.3.6.2. Hoist cable, rope and chain shall not be wrapped around the load. Use only
        slings or other approved lifting devices. For example, cargo straps shall not be used
        for lifting, unless stated in approved Air Force technical data.
        4.9.3.6.3. Positive action safety latches shall be installed on all hooks.
        4.9.3.6.4. Hooks shall not be point loaded unless designed for this purpose. All loads
        shall be seated in the saddle of the hook.
        4.9.3.6.5. Extensions to levers (cheater bars or pipes) shall not be used to increase
        leverage. Extendible levers designed and permanently installed by the manufacturer
        are authorized.
        4.9.3.6.6. Manually operated lever hoists shall only be operated by workers familiar
        with the use of the equipment. Operator qualifications shall be as determined by the
        facility and/or shop supervisor or designated representative.
        4.9.3.6.7. The rated load shall not be exceeded except for authorized proof tests.
        4.9.3.6.8. Hoists shall be attached to well defined dead-end points capable of
        withstanding the intended load. Note: Lifeline attach points shall not be used for
        hoists.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       47



4.10. Inspection of Materials. Prior to movement, material shall be examined for sharp edges,
protruding points and weak places. When defects cannot be corrected, additional steps shall be
taken to protect the worker. For example, using an enclosed cart when moving sheet metal
scraps.
4.11. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Supervisors shall identify the need for PPE for
manual material handling tasks. They may use a JSA to accomplish this as necessary (refer to
Figure 1.1). The installation Ground Safety office and BE are available to assist in this
evaluation process. Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), DoD 4145.19-R-1,
Storage and Materials Handling, and AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual (JSM) for Storage
and Materials Handling, should be consulted when selecting PPE. Note: BE will certify the
applicability of health-related PPE (e.g., chemical protective equipment, respirators, etc.).
   4.11.1. Protective footwear shall be provided and worn when there is a reasonable possibility
   of foot injuries due to heavy or sharp objects and electrical and/or static electricity.
   (Reference paragraph 14.4.10)
   4.11.2. Personnel shall wear leather or leather-palmed gloves when manually handling
   objects that have sharp or burred edges or splintered surfaces.
   4.11.3. Personnel shall wear appropriate hearing protection when working in or visiting
   hazardous noise areas.
   4.11.4. Personnel shall carry tools that have sharp edges in protective holders.
   4.11.5. Personnel shall wear appropriate protective clothing when transporting, delivering or
   working with hazardous materials.
   4.11.6. Material handlers shall not wear finger rings, jewelry (which includes watches) or
   loose clothing, and shall keep long hair completely covered when around moving conveyor
   belts, open rotating shafts or other moving parts of machinery. Refer to Chapter 9, Jewelry,
   for additional guidance on wear of jewelry.
   4.11.7. Workers shall wear goggles and/or safety glasses with side shields and gloves when
   cutting strapping. Workers shall stand clear so cut strapping does not contact the face or
   body. A board or other hold-down device may be used to prevent the strapping from flying
   out from the material when cut.
4.12. Inspection and Maintenance of Manual Material Handling Equipment
(MHE). Manual MHE, such as hand trucks, wheelbarrows, dollies, pallet jacks and similar un-
powered equipment, shall be checked visually before use to assure equipment is in operable
condition. This equipment shall also be maintained and inspected IAW the manufacturer‘s
instructions. Any required repairs shall be accomplished prior to use of the equipment.
4.13. Other Safety Requirements.
   4.13.1. Stack all materials neatly and arrange them in an orderly manner. Limit the stack
   height to minimize the possibility for the materials to fall or collapse.
   4.13.2. Remove, repair or replace defective or broken strapping on material.
   4.13.3. Do not throw materials from elevated places except when using approved chutes.
   Carry or lower them.
 48                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   4.13.4. If MHE is not available and drums must be manually moved, roll drums by pushing
   with the hands, not the feet. Ensure a minimum of two workers set the drum upright.
   4.13.5. Do not run when carrying materials.
   4.13.6. Practice good housekeeping when unpacking materials. Discard banding, packing
   materials, and empty cartons properly and do not allow these materials to accumulate in work
   areas.
4.14. Manual Material Handling and Lifting Techniques Checklist. This is not an all
inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items
contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist.
Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to
this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or
situations.
   4.14.1. Are personnel who regularly perform manual lifting duties properly trained?
   Reference 4.4
   4.14.2. Does training instruction include information such as what PPE is required, what
   manual lifting devices are available and their proper use? Reference 4.4
   4.14.3. Is training documented IAW AFI 91-202? Reference 4.4
   4.14.4. Are manual materials handling activities kept to a minimum through the application
   and use of engineering controls when possible? Reference 4.5.1
   4.14.5. Are loads to be lifted manageable in both size and weight distribution? Reference 4.6
   4.14.6. Are objects to be lifted inspected for grease or other slippery substances that might
   cause the object to slip? Reference 4.6.1.1
   4.14.7. Do individuals seek assistance when it is necessary to move heavy or odd shaped
   items? Reference 4.6.3
   4.14.8. Are workers properly trained in team lifting techniques when they will be lifting
   heavy or odd shaped items? Reference 4.6.3.
   4.14.9. Is PPE provided and used when needed to protect the hands and feet of workers
   involved in manual materials handling activities? Reference 4.7.1
   4.14.10. Are wheeled hand trucks and dollies loaded so that the cargo is stable and the loads
   won't fall? Reference 4.9.1.5
   4.14.11. Is the rated capacity on all lever operated hoists permanently and conspicuously
   marked and easily visible? Reference 4.9.3.1.1
   4.14.12. Are hoists equipped with a device (ratchet and pawl or load brake) that prevents a
   suspended load from self-lowering and ensures loads are only lowered by operation of the
   hoist lever? Reference 4.9.3.1.2
   4.14.13. Are hoists inspected daily or prior to each use for items such as loose or worn parts,
   cracked or broken welds, deformed hooks or chain, and bent or deformed pawls? Reference
   4.9.3.2
   4.14.14. Is an annual inspection accomplished on all MHE? Reference 4.9.3.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         49



  4.14.15. Are identification tags attached to hoists indicating date of inspection, date of proof
  test, capacity of hoist and identification number of hoist? Reference 4.9.3.4
  4.14.16. Do hoist users maintain records of all tests? Reference 4.9.3.5.1
  4.14.17. Are only approved lifting devices like slings used to lift loads? Reference 4.9.3.6.2
  4.14.18. Do material handlers remove finger rings and jewelry prior to working with
  materials or moving machinery? Reference 4.11.6
  4.14.19. Are materials neatly stacked and the height limited to minimize the possibility for
  the materials to fall or collapse? Reference 4.13.1
 50                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                             Chapter 5

                                        HOUSEKEEPING

5.1. Floors and Walking Surfaces. Keep areas where personnel walk and work free of
potential tripping and slipping hazards such as tools, electrical cords, air lines and packaging
materials. Clean up spills as soon as possible and post warnings until cleanup is complete. Refer
to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs,
and Portable and Fixed Ladders, for additional information.
5.2. Scraps and Combustible Waste. Provide sufficient metal or noncombustible containers
with vapor tight and spill proof lids for disposal or recycling of combustible wastes, rags or other
items contaminated with combustible or flammable materials. These containers shall be marked
IAW AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, and AFI 90-821, Hazardous Communications Program.
Dispose of contents IAW approved hazardous waste disposal procedures. Contact the installation
environmental management office for guidance. Use properly marked, covered metal or
noncombustible containers for storing clean rags.
5.3. Packing Supplies and Recycled Materials. Non-soiled excelsior (fine wood shavings),
straw, shredded paper, recyclable cardboard, recyclable paper and other packing/recyclable
materials shall be stored in isolated fire-resistant facilities. Small supplies of packing materials,
which are kept in shops for immediate use, shall be stored in metal or noncombustible covered
containers. Remove protruding nails, brads and staples from crates, cases, packing boxes, casks,
boards and lumber to prevent injury to personnel.
5.4. Electric Buffing Machines. Ensure electric buffing machines are equipped with
―deadman‖ control switches. Unless the machines are double insulated, ensure electrical cords
include three-prong plugs to ensure positive ground.
5.5. Walls and Ceilings. Keep projections from walls to a minimum. Maintain ceilings in good
repair and free of loose plaster. Replace damaged, broken or missing fire rated ceiling tiles.
Openings in ceilings can delay activation of smoke detectors and sprinkler heads.
5.6. Stacking Materials. Stack materials so they may be easily reached but do not protrude into
aisles or passageways. Use crossties, separators or dunnage to prevent objects from falling or
toppling over. When materials are stacked to a height less than 15 feet, maintain an 18-inch
clearance below ceiling sprinkler deflectors, joists, rafters, beams and roof trusses. If the stack is
over 15 feet in height, increase the clearance to 36 inches. Position all stacks of materials to
ensure an 18-inch clearance around light or heating fixtures, or follow manufacturer‘s
instructions, regardless of height. Refer to AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual (JSM) For
Storage and Materials Handling, for additional information.
5.7. Lighting Fixtures. Fluorescent light fixtures without self-locking tubes shall have shields,
clamps or other devices installed to keep the tubes from falling out of the fixture.
5.8. Trash.
   5.8.1. Garbage cans shall be securely covered when not actually being filled or emptied.
   5.8.2. Trash and garbage cans shall be leak-proof and adequate in number and size.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          51



   5.8.3. If the garbage disposal area is adjacent to or part of the general receiving area, floors
   and/or dock areas shall be kept clear of refuse and waste.
   5.8.4. Garbage containers shall be positioned in a proper rack. Heavy garbage containers
   shall be moved on dollies to eliminate as much lifting as possible.
   5.8.5. Garbage cans shall be washed and sanitized monthly with hot soapy water.
   5.8.6. Place broken glass in a sturdy container or enclose the broken glass in cardboard or
   protective shield if disposal includes placing glass in a plastic bag. This should eliminate
   broken glass protruding from bags and prevent injury to personnel who handle the bags.
5.9. Industrial Areas. Good housekeeping shall be maintained in all areas, shops, yards,
buildings and mobile equipment facilities/areas. Supervisors and workers are responsible for
good housekeeping in or around the work area they are supervising or working.
   5.9.1. Material shall not be placed where it might create a hazard for workers or visitors, by
   falling, being a trip hazard or causing the collapse of structures.
   5.9.2. Aisles and passageways shall be kept clear of tripping hazards.
   5.9.3. Nails shall be removed from loose lumber or the points turned down.
   5.9.4. Surplus and waste materials shall not be allowed to accumulate in any mobile
   equipment. Tools and supplies shall be properly stored.
   5.9.5. Disconnect switches, distribution panels and alarm supply boxes shall not be blocked
   by any obstruction that would prevent ready access.
   5.9.6. Wire reels shall be stacked with strips of wood between reels.
   5.9.7. Flammable materials shall be stored in approved containers in approved areas. Refer
   to Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, for additional information.
   5.9.8. Combustible materials shall be placed in covered self-closing metal containers.
   5.9.9. Noncombustible materials shall be neatly kept in designated cabinets (with their
   contents plainly marked).
   5.9.10. Clothing lockers shall be maintained in a clean, orderly condition. Apparel not
   needed to perform official duties shall be stored in lockers. Objects shall not be stored on top
   of or under clothing lockers and no flammable liquids shall be stored in lockers.
   5.9.11. Machinery and equipment shall be kept clean of excess grease and oil and free of
   excessive dust. Pressure gauges and visual displays shall be kept clean, visible and
   serviceable at all times. Drip pans and wheeled or stationary containers shall be cleaned and
   emptied at the end of each shift.
   5.9.12. Certain cleaning compounds used in housekeeping activities may pose a hazard to
   workers. To protect eyes, skin and clothing from these compounds, workers shall wear (as
   required) safety glasses, face shields, aprons and gloves. Installation Ground Safety office
   and BE shall be consulted with questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter 14 for
   additional guidance.
 52                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   5.9.13. All surfaces shall be maintained as free as practicable of accumulations of dust, lead,
   chromium, cadmium or any other foreign particles. Floors shall be kept clean. Spills shall be
   cleaned up as soon as possible.
5.10. Snow and Ice. Snow and ice shall be removed from all walkways, sidewalks and work
areas expediently where they may create a hazard or interfere with the work. If ice cannot be
readily removed, sand or other approved materials shall be applied. Snow and icicles above
walkways shall be removed.
5.11. Housekeeping Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in
this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements
exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local
safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual
location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   5.11.1. Are floors and walking surfaces kept free of potential tripping hazards such as tools,
   electrical cords, air hoses, materials and liquids? Reference 5.1
   5.11.2. Are noncombustible containers with vapor tight and spill proof lids provided for the
   disposal of combustible wastes, soiled rags and other flammable materials? Reference 5.2
   5.11.3. Are packing materials such as excelsior (fine wood shavings), packing straw and
   shredded paper stored in an isolated fire-resistant building? Reference 5.3
   5.11.4. Are protruding nails, brads and staples removed from packing materials to prevent
   injury to personnel? Reference 5.3
   5.11.5. Are aisles and passageways kept clear of stacked materials? Reference 5.6
   5.11.6. Is an 18-inch clearance maintained below fire protection sprinkler heads, rafters,
   joists, beams and roof trusses when materials are stacked less than 15 feet high? Reference
   5.6
   5.11.7. Are trash and garbage cans leakproof and adequate in number and size? Reference
   5.8.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          53



                                           Chapter 6

                         FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION

6.1. Hazards.
   6.1.1. General. The maintenance and operation of portable fire extinguishers and fire
   suppression systems may involve exposure to toxic fire extinguishing agents and by-products
   of combustion. Breathing toxic gases, absorption through skin contact or ingestion of toxic
   liquids is hazardous to your health. The severity of the hazard depends upon the type of
   chemical, concentration and duration of exposure. Additionally, fires produce toxic by-
   products of combustion, consume oxygen and produce high temperatures which create areas
   immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH). It is important personnel receive training in
   the proper use of available portable fire extinguishers and fixed fire suppression systems, and
   fire education safety on preventing fires, protecting themselves and intervening early when
   fire occurs.
   6.1.2. Inspections, Testing and Maintenance. Fire detection, suppression and alarm systems,
   including fire hydrants, are subject to failure unless inspection, test and maintenance (ITM)
   programs are conducted IAW UFC 3-601-02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection,
   Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems. When a fire protection system is out of
   service for more than 4 hours in a 24-hour period, the installation Fire Emergency Services
   (FES) Flight or civilian-equivalent fire unit, as appropriate, shall be notified by the facility
   manager or other responsible user, the building shall be evacuated or the user/occupant shall
   establish a fire watch (approved by the installation FES Flight) for all areas left unprotected
   by the out-of-service system, until the system has been returned to service. Facility managers
   shall use the RM process, with advice from the installation FES Flight and Ground Safety
   office, to determine to what extent the facility may be used while corrective actions are
   pending. Installation Civil Engineering (CE) will evaluate and prioritize work orders
   concerning fire protection systems in need of repair IAW guidance from AFPAM 32-1004,
   Volume 2, Working in the Operations Flight Maintenance Engineering. Refer to NFPA 101,
   The Life Safety Code, for additional guidance.
   6.1.3. Extinguishing Agents. A detailed list of clean agents can be found in UFC 3-601-02 or
   at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) website: http://www.epa.gov.
6.2. General Requirements.
   6.2.1. Facility Managers/Supervisors shall:
      6.2.1.1. Establish and maintain a training and certification system to ensure employees
      are trained and understand their fire prevention and protection responsibilities in their
      work areas. This training and certification system shall include documented annual
      training of employees, including fire extinguisher training and location of fire
      extinguishers, and immediate indoctrination of newly hired employees. This requirement
      may be fulfilled through the job safety training and documentation process IAW AFI 91-
      202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.
54                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


     6.2.1.2. Coordinate this fire prevention and protection training program with the
     installation FES Flight. Note: Building evacuation procedures in Services facilities may
     be practiced without actual participation of patrons, with the prior approval of the
     installation FES Flight Chief.
     6.2.1.3. Make sure the facility is in a fire-safe condition at the close of business.
     6.2.1.4. Conduct and document daily closing inspections. Maintain documentation on
     file for 30 days following the last duty day of the month, i.e., May‘s documentation shall
     be kept on file until 30 June.
     6.2.1.5. Maintain occupant load information. Every room constituting an assembly
     occupancy and not having fixed seats shall have the occupant load of the room posted in
     a conspicuous location near the main exit from the room. The maximum occupant load
     shall be calculated by the installation FES Flight, based on the actual exiting capacity of
     the corridors, aisles, stairs, doors and other egress components.
     6.2.1.6. Notify the installation FES Flight of all major social events when temporary
     decorations or unusual arrangements exist.
  6.2.2. Commercial Food Service Facilities. Commercial food service facilities shall be
  maintained as required to prevent the loss of US Air Force resources. The installation FES
  Flight shall inspect grease and heat removal hoods, ducts and exhausts at all food service
  facilities such as clubs, snack bars, fast-food outlets, bowling alleys, chapels, troop feeding or
  any other facility where food service cooking occurs. This inspection includes a review of
  employee training, installation and maintenance of required fire safety equipment, whether or
  not hood and duct cleaning has occurred and whether the cleaning frequency is adequate.
  Fire inspectors shall also inspect hood and duct systems to ensure thorough cleaning has been
  accomplished. The unit commander will appoint in writing a Quality Assurance Evaluator
  (QAE) for cleaning conducted under a service contract. QAE function is usually
  accomplished by the facility manager.
     6.2.2.1. Commercial food service equipment which may create grease-laden vapor shall
     be provided with a system for smoke and grease-laden vapor removal. An automatic
     extinguishing system listed by a nationally recognized test laboratory (NRTL) for the
     protection of cooking equipment, ducts and grease-removing devices shall be provided.
     Other commercial food service and holding equipment shall be provided with a system
     for removal of smoke and heat. These systems shall be operational at all times except for
     scheduled inspections, testing and routine maintenance. If any of the systems are out of
     service for any reason, equipment protected by that system shall not be used. Activation
     of the fire suppression system will automatically shut down cooking equipment, sound
     the fire alarm and signal the fire department. Consult installation FES Flight for
     additional guidance.
     6.2.2.2. Managers of these facilities shall establish and enforce the following procedures:
         6.2.2.2.1. Grease filters shall be installed in all grease hoods and extraction systems
         designed with filters covering equipment. The filters shall be continually maintained
         in proper operating condition and shall fit properly. Cooking shall not be permitted
         without the filters installed. Spare filters shall be available for cooking facilities that
         operate continuously. Refer to NFPA 96, Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          55



         Commercial Cooking Operations, for additional guidance on facility installed
         systems.
         6.2.2.2.2. All installed grease filters and exposed surfaces of hoods shall be
         thoroughly cleaned daily, or more often if necessary, to prevent grease buildup.
         6.2.2.2.3. Hood and exhaust ducts serving food service equipment shall be
         thoroughly cleaned every 6 months, or more frequently when determined by the
         installation FES Flight. This cleaning cycle includes grease accumulation on fans,
         roofs, louvers, exterior walls, cupolas, etc., where the system exhausts to the outside.
         When cleaning is complete, all electrical controls, detection devices and system
         components shall be returned to an operable state by qualified personnel. Cover plates
         shall be replaced and dampers and diffusers shall be positioned for proper air flow.
         Specific guidance for cleaning is outlined in NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation
         Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations, for facility installed
         systems. Exception: Cleaning of hood and exhaust ducts serving food service
         equipment may be extended to every two years if a dining facility prepares less than
         10 meals per month.
         6.2.2.2.4. The exhaust system shall continually operate while the food service
         equipment is in use. If an exhaust fan is shut down or removed for repair or
         replacement, equipment served by that exhaust system shall not be used until the fan
         is returned to full service.
         6.2.2.2.5. Portable, mobile or temporary food service equipment that uses grease or
         oil, such as donut machines and deep-fat fryers, shall be located beneath a system
         complying with paragraph 6.2.2.2 or have an integral grease removal and fire
         suppression listed by a NRTL IAW NSF/ANSI Standard 4: Commercial Cooking,
         Rethermalization and Powered Hot Food Holding, and Transport.
         6.2.2.2.6. Deep fryers, pressure fryers, tilt skillets and other food service equipment
         capable of producing grease/fat laden vapors shall be listed by NRTL IAW
         NSF/ANSI 4.
  6.2.3. Health Care Facilities. Facility managers and/or safety officers of health care
  occupancies shall have in effect a written fire plan that addresses appropriate staff response
  to a fire emergency and appropriate education and training for all elements of the fire plan.
  The plan will address facility-wide needs in response to fire, area-specific needs for all areas,
  training for all staff, employees and volunteers, and appropriate training for other non-staff
  personnel required to participate in the fire plan. This fire plan shall be approved by the
  installation FES Flight. Facility managers shall ensure fire exit drills are conducted IAW
  NFPA 01.
  6.2.4. Portable Fire Extinguishers.
     6.2.4.1. Fire Emergency Services Flight. The installation FES Flight manages the
     installation fire extinguisher program and is the authority for all matters involving fire
     extinguishers. The FES Flight shall provide facility managers information on facility fire
     extinguisher requirements outlined in appropriate NFPA Standards. These requirements
     include:
56                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


        6.2.4.1.1. Provide fire extinguishers IAW NFPA 101 or when specifically required
        by DoD or AF guidance. Required extinguishers shall be selected, located, inspected
        and maintained IAW NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers. Refer to
        AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, for extinguisher requirements in
        locations that contain explosives.
        6.2.4.1.2. Extinguishers are not provided for military family housing (MFH). Should
        MAJCOMs, DRUs and FOAs direct installation of extinguishers in MFH, procedures
        shall be developed to ensure occupants are trained in their use and extinguishers are
        maintained as indicated in paragraph 6.2.4.8.
        6.2.4.1.3. Directional arrows may be required when needed to indicate the location of
        extinguishers in warehouses or industrial activities where volume of storage in the
        facility impairs or prohibits extinguisher visibility. Directional arrows, targets and
        extinguisher signs should not be used in other occupancies such as clubs and chapels,
        dormitories, mercantile occupancies or other locations where decor is important to the
        facility‘s function.
        6.2.4.1.4. Fire extinguishers need not be visible from all locations within a facility.
        Workplace safety training provided to each employee by the supervisor shall include
        the location and use of fire extinguishers.
        6.2.4.1.5. Refer to the standard for visual inspections of Compressed Gas Cylinders
        (C-6), published by the Compressed Gas Association (CGA) and 49 CFR,
        Transportation, Part 172, when evaluating the condition of extinguisher cylinders
        manufactured to meet Department of Transportation (DOT) specifications.
     6.2.4.2. Directives Addressing Fire Extinguishers. Directives addressing                fire
     extinguishers shall be coordinated with appropriate fire protection offices.
     6.2.4.3. Fire Extinguisher Location. The installation FES Flight shall approve the
     location of all fire extinguishers, i.e., vehicle-mounted, equipment or facilities.
     6.2.4.4. Fire Extinguisher Purchase and Maintenance. Facility managers and using
     organizations shall budget for purchase and maintenance of fire extinguishers. All fire
     extinguishers shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
     6.2.4.5. Worker Responsibilities. All employees are responsible for fire extinguishers in
     their work areas. They shall ensure fire extinguishers are readily accessible with
     unobstructed access and are used only for the intended purpose.
     6.2.4.6. Supervisor Responsibilities. Supervisors are responsible for fire extinguishers in
     areas under their control. They shall:
        6.2.4.6.1. Perform visual inspections of fire extinguishers IAW paragraph 6.2.4.7.
        6.2.4.6.2. Take defective extinguishers to an authorized servicing location, as
        determined locally and coordinated with the installation FES Flight, for services. Fire
        extinguishers removed from service shall be immediately replaced.
        6.2.4.6.3. Refer questions regarding fire extinguishers, including the extinguisher
        type, size and required maintenance, to the installation FES Flight.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       57



        6.2.4.6.4. Mount fire extinguishers in or on vehicles or equipment in approved/listed
        brackets, or otherwise secure them, to prevent damage as directed by TO or other
        directive and the installation FES Flight. Note: Vehicle fire extinguishers shall only
        be purchased with the approval of Vehicle Management to ensure the vehicle
        technical orders and AFIs require the vehicle to carry fire extinguishers. Additionally,
        FES Flight will determine the size and type of vehicle fire extinguishers.
     6.2.4.7. Visual Inspection. Managers and supervisors at all levels shall ensure a visual
     inspection is performed at a minimum of 30-day intervals and documented for all fire
     extinguishers under their control. Extinguishers with discrepancies shall be removed from
     service until repaired. This inspection includes:
        6.2.4.7.1. Extinguisher located in a designated place.
        6.2.4.7.2. No obstruction to access or visibility.
        6.2.4.7.3. Operating instructions on name plate legible and facing outward.
        6.2.4.7.4. Safety seals and/or tamper indicators not broken or missing.
        6.2.4.7.5. No obvious physical damage, corrosion, leakage or clogged nozzle.
        6.2.4.7.6. Pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable range or position.
        6.2.4.7.7. For wheeled units, the condition of the tires, wheels, carriage, hose and
        nozzle checked.
        6.2.4.7.8. Fullness determined by weighing or ―hefting.‖
     6.2.4.8. Maintenance and Tests.
        6.2.4.8.1. All fire extinguishers shall be maintained and tested at intervals specified
        in NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguisher, appropriate TOs, directives or
        the manufacturer‘s instructions.
            6.2.4.8.1.1. Organizations with fire extinguishers not located in real property
            facilities shall ensure each extinguisher receives annual maintenance by an
            authorized servicing agency, (e.g., contractor or fire protection organization).
            Contact the installation FES Flight for specific guidance.
            6.2.4.8.1.2. The facility manager or using organization manager ensures
            maintenance and testing of installation fire extinguishers are accomplished. The
            installation FES Flight oversees and ensures programs for maintenance and
            testing of installation fire extinguishers are accomplished.
        6.2.4.8.2. The using organization is responsible for transporting wheeled
        extinguishers to the maintenance location.
        6.2.4.8.3. Halon shall not be released into the atmosphere during maintenance and
        tests. Refer to AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, Chapter 4, ODS
        Management, for specific guidance regarding handling of halon.
     6.2.4.9. Fire Extinguisher Records. These records shall be maintained IAW NFPA 10, as
     approved by the installation FES Flight.
58                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


     6.2.4.10. Fire Extinguishers. Ensure all personnel know where fire extinguishers are
     located and what to do in case of fire. Supervisors shall instruct personnel on fire
     extinguisher operation upon initial arrival and annually thereafter. Note: Personnel
     assigned for short periods (less than 30 days), either on deployment or TDY, do not
     require initial training at each base. However, personnel shall be oriented to the locations
     of fire apparatus (extinguishers, hoses, alarm boxes, etc.) within their immediate
     temporary duty area. Personnel deploying or TDY for more than 30 days are required to
     receive orientation and operation training on fire apparatus in their work areas. Refer to
     fire extinguisher training requirements IAW paragraph 6.2.16 and NFPA 10.
  6.2.5. Fire Detection, Suppression and Alarm Systems.
     6.2.5.1. Inspections, Testing and Maintenance. Fire detection, suppression and alarm
     systems, including fire hydrants, are subject to failure if not properly tested, inspected
     and maintained. Inspection, test and maintenance (ITM) programs are conducted IAW
     UFC 3-601-02, O&M: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems.
     Also see paragraph 6.1.2.
     6.2.5.2. Rooms and enclosures protected by total flooding Halon, carbon dioxide (CO2)
     or similar fire suppressing agents shall have caution signs posted outside at all entrances
     with the legend, ―DO NOT ENTER WHEN ALARM IS SOUNDING. HALON 1301 (or
     CO2) BEING DISCHARGED.‖ Caution signs shall be posted inside the room or space
     near the alarm device, with the legend, ―WHEN THE ALARM SOUNDS, VACATE
     THE ROOM. HALON 1301 (or CO2) BEING DISCHARGED.‖ These signs shall be
     designed IAW Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags.
  6.2.6. Standpipe and Hose Systems.
     6.2.6.1. Standpipe and hose systems shall be kept free from obstructions, used only for
     the intended purpose, with only fire protection equipment stored in hose cabinets.
     6.2.6.2. Standpipe hoses shall be tested IAW UFC 3-601-02. Unlined hose is prohibited
     on standpipe systems provided for occupant use. Standpipe hose shall be equipped with
     shut-off type nozzles.
  6.2.7. Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be installed and maintained as required by UFC 3-
  600-01, Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction, and UFC 3-
  601-02.
  6.2.8. Smoke Detectors in Family Housing.
     6.2.8.1. Smoke detectors shall be installed in all MFH units IAW HQ AFCEE, Military
     Family Housing Design Guide.
         6.2.8.1.1. Each MFH unit sponsor is responsible for a monthly test and examination
         of all household warning devices installed within the quarters. Test and examination
         of these devices shall include:
            6.2.8.1.1.1. Visual inspection for evidence of damage, abuse, tampering or other
            indications that may render it inoperative.
            6.2.8.1.1.2. Ensuring units are securely mounted.
            6.2.8.1.1.3. Conducting an operational test IAW the manufacturer‘s guidance to
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         59



             ensure the audible alarm is working.
         6.2.8.1.2. Vacant units shall not be reoccupied if the household fire warning system
         is not functioning properly.
         6.2.8.1.3. The installation housing office shall provide occupants a brochure detailing
         detector testing and maintenance procedures.
     6.2.8.2. At change of occupancy, smoke detector maintenance shall be conducted IAW
     UFC 3-601-02. Deficient operation or faulty equipment shall be reported to the agency
     responsible for maintenance. Disposal of smoke detectors (ionization smoke detectors)
     should be coordinated through the installation Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) IAW the
     local requirements for radioactive articles and instruments.
  6.2.9. Life Safety. Functional managers, supervisors and building managers are responsible
  for keeping facilities in a condition that provides a safe workplace IAW NFPA 101. Fires in
  facilities can result from many circumstances, but are usually attributed to improper use,
  selection or placement of heaters, coffee makers, holiday decorations or improper storage or
  disposal of flammable and combustible materials. Specific requirements for fire protection:
     6.2.9.1. Smoking Restrictions. Smoking is not allowed inside Air Force buildings.
     Contact the Unit‘s Safety Representative (USR) for a list of approved smoking areas.
     6.2.9.2. Disposal of Smoking Material.
         6.2.9.2.1. Provide an adequate number of ashtrays/ash receptacles for every
         authorized smoking area.
         6.2.9.2.2. Provide ash receptacles or smoking material cans at the entrance to all NO
         SMOKING areas or IAW local/unit no smoking policy.
         6.2.9.2.3. Dispose of smoking material in approved containers (listed by UL, CSA or
         other recognized testing laboratory) specifically designed for smoking material.
         Stencil these containers or cans ―SMOKING MATERIAL ONLY.‖ Refer to
         paragraph 5.8.6 for additional information.
         6.2.9.2.4. Disposal of waste, trash or any combustible material in ashtrays or
         smoking material cans is prohibited.
         6.2.9.2.5. Smoking material. Saturate and completely extinguish smoking material
         prior to disposal into outside waste dumpsters.
  6.2.10. Heat Producing Appliances.
     6.2.10.1. Use UL-listed or host nation equivalent space heaters equipped with automatic
     shut-off devices that will shut off the heater if it tips over. Space heaters shall also have
     an overheat protection device, an automatic thermostat control and must be disconnected
     when not in use.
     6.2.10.2. Plug space heaters directly into a wall receptacle. Do not plug space heaters
     into multiple outlet strips. Do not use an extension cord with an electric space heater.
60                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


     6.2.10.3. Maintain a 36 inch minimum distance or IAW manufacturer‘s
     recommendations between any heat producing appliance and combustibles. Note: The
     more restrictive of the guidance will apply.
     6.2.10.4. The use of portable space heaters must be IAW the manufacturers‘
     specifications and have the concurrence of the base energy awareness manager.
     6.2.10.5. Do not leave these devices unattended when in use and unplug them at the end
     of the day or shift.
     6.2.10.6. The use of space heaters in any hazardous location is prohibited.
  6.2.11. Coffee Makers.
     6.2.11.1. Keep coffee makers and the area around them free of combustibles.
     6.2.11.2. Refer to the manufacturer‘s operating instructions and consult the facility
     manager for approval after coffee makers placement.
     6.2.11.3. Unplug coffee makers at the end of the day. Note: Coffee makers/machines
     with integral timers need not be unplugged, e.g., Bunn-type coffee brewers.
     6.2.11.4. Do not use timers unless the coffee maker comes with an integral timer.
  6.2.12. Heating Systems.
  6.2.12.1. Heating devices, such as furnaces or heaters, must be kept clear of combustible
  and flammable material.
     6.2.12.2. All heating equipment must be in good repair.
     6.2.12.3. All heating, boiler, air conditioning, air handling and mechanical rooms shall
     be secured. Only the installation FES Flight, CE or authorized personnel shall have
     access to these areas.
  6.2.13. Decorations.
     6.2.13.1. Electric string lights and wiring must be UL (or equivalent) approved and in
     good operating condition.
     6.2.13.2. Unplug all electrical decorations when work area is unoccupied.
     6.2.13.3. Decorations shall be noncombustible or fire retardant.
     6.2.13.4. Larger decorations, i.e., Christmas trees or fake fireplaces, if authorized, shall
     not block exits or paths of egress.
     6.2.13.5. Decorations utilizing an open flame are prohibited.
  6.2.14. Fire Alarm Systems. Supervisors shall ensure all personnel are familiar with the fire
  alarm systems, know how to report an emergency and how to activate the fire alarm system.
  At no time shall a fire detection, suppression or alarm system or device be painted, blocked
  or obstructed in any manner.
  6.2.15. Emergency Evacuation Procedures.
     6.2.15.1. Supervisors shall establish an emergency action plan. Note: Employees shall
     know primary and secondary escape routes for every area of the building.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          61



     6.2.15.2. Ensure escape routes are kept free of obstruction—to include stairways and
     office doors. Ensure doors leading outside open easily.
     6.2.15.3. Consult the installation FES Flight to determine requirements for practice fire
     evacuation drills. Ensure new personnel are trained in evacuation procedures.
  6.2.15.4. Personnel shall immediately evacuate the building whenever the fire alarm
  activates, unless otherwise provided for in an approved building fire evacuation plan or when
  non-evacuation testing or maintenance is being conducted on the fire alarm system.
  Wing/Installation commanders may approve in writing, with coordination from the
  installation Ground Safety office and FES Flight, any combat ready positions authorized to
  remain in their work center during a fire alarm activation. Upon direction of the senior fire
  official, all personnel shall immediately evacuate to include those combat mission ready
  positions. Note: Command post and/or job control personnel are not considered combat
  mission ready.
     6.2.15.5. Do not use elevators during evacuation; use the stairs.
     6.2.15.6. Establish a predetermined area for personnel to gather after evacuation so
     personnel can be accounted for. To minimize confusion, different predetermined meeting
     locations shall be established for smaller groups within the total organization. For
     example, each division shall meet in a different place.
     6.2.15.7. Appoint Emergency Action Procedures representatives to account for personnel
     at the predetermined meeting area. This will help emergency response personnel
     determine who may still be in the building. At least two representatives per section shall
     be appointed; in case the primary leader is not in the building at the time of the
     emergency or is unable to evacuate the building, the alternate can fill in. Sections with
     many personnel (20 or more) in their allocated space may require additional
     representatives.
     6.2.15.8. Assign workers to assist people in wheelchairs or anyone else who would have
     difficulty descending stairs on their own. Also, ensure people with hearing or sight
     problems know they are to evacuate. Assign someone to help them evacuate and report to
     the designated meeting area, if necessary.
  6.2.16. Safety, Fire Prevention and Health On-the-Job Training. Training shall be IAW AFI
  91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.
  6.2.17. Employees shall be knowledgeable of the following but not limited to:
     6.2.17.1. The fire evacuation signal in their work area.
     6.2.17.2. The fire suppression system signal (if different from fire evacuation signal).
     6.2.17.3. Other evacuation signals in their work area, if provided.
     6.2.17.4. Specific actions to take for a fire or other emergency.
     6.2.17.5. When to manually activate fire suppression systems, if provided.
     6.2.17.6. Specific actions required to activate fire suppression system, if provided.
     6.2.17.7. Specific actions to activate emergency evacuation signaling systems.
 62                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       6.2.17.8. Primary and secondary egress routes from all work areas.
       6.2.17.9. Location of fire extinguishers, if provided.
       6.2.17.10. When and how to use fire extinguishers, if provided.
6.3. Exits and Exit Markings.
   6.3.1. Refer to 29 CFR 1910, Subpart E, Means of Egress, and NFPA 101, for additional
   guidance and information.
   6.3.2. Fire exits shall be clearly marked and exit paths shall be kept clear of equipment and
   materials, emergency lighting shall be provided and all workers trained in proper evacuation
   procedures.
   6.3.3. Doors, passageways or stairways which are neither exits nor ways to an exit but may
   be mistaken for an exit, shall be clearly marked ―NOT AN EXIT‖ or a sign indicating their
   actual use; for example, ―STORAGE ROOM‖ or ―BASEMENT.‖
   6.3.4. Exit access shall be arranged so it is unnecessary to travel toward any area of high
   hazard potential to reach the nearest exit, unless the path of travel is effectively shielded by
   suitable partitions or other protective barriers.
   6.3.5. Nothing shall impair the visibility of the exit sign.
   6.3.6. No lock or fastening device shall prevent escape from inside the building.
   6.3.7. Areas around exit doors and passageways shall be free of obstructions. The exit route
   shall lead to a public way.
   6.3.8. Floors or means of egress shall be illuminated to at least one (1) foot-candle
   (measured at all points at the floor), including angles and intersections of corridors and
   passageways, stairways, landings of stairs and exit doors.
6.4. Fire Protection and Prevention Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   6.4.1. Are personnel trained initially and annually thereafter on their responsibilities for fire
   protection and prevention? Reference 6.2.1.1
   6.4.2. Are all commercial cooking facilities provided with a system to remove smoke and
   grease-laden vapors? Reference 6.2.2.1
   6.4.3. Are grease ducts and grease removal systems protected by automatic fire suppression
   systems? Reference 6.2.2.1
   6.4.4. Are grease filters installed in all hoods and extraction systems? Reference 6.2.2.2.1
   6.4.5. Are the filters and hoods cleaned at least daily? Reference 6.2.2.2.2
   6.4.6. Are hood and exhaust ducts thoroughly cleaned every six (6) months, or more
   frequently when determined by the installation FES Flight? Reference 6.2.2.2.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     63



  6.4.7. Are deep fat fryers listed IAW NSF/ANSI Standard 4: Commercial Cooking,
  Rethermalization and Powered Hot Food Holding, and Transport? Reference 6.2.2.2.6
  6.4.8. Are deep fat fryer thermostats tested annually and after any repairs or as
  recommended by manufacturer? Reference 6.2.2.2.6
  6.4.9. Has a written fire plan been developed for the health care facility that includes
  appropriate staff response to fire emergencies and requirements for education and training?
  Reference 6.2.3
  6.4.10. Are fire extinguishers visually inspected at a minimum of 30-day intervals to detect
  and correct discrepancies? Reference 6.2.4.7
  6.4.11. Are caution signs posted both inside and outside rooms or enclosures protected by
  total flooding halon, CO2, or similar fire suppressing agents? Reference 6.2.5.2
  6.4.12. Do hose cabinets of standpipe and hose systems contain only fire protection
  equipment? Reference 6.2.6.1
  6.4.13. Is safety, fire prevention and health training accomplished IAW AFI 91-202?
  Reference 6.2.16
 64                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 7

      WALKING SURFACES, GUARDING FLOOR AND WALL OPENINGS, FIXED
          INDUSTRIAL STAIRS, AND PORTABLE AND FIXED LADDERS

7.1. Specific Hazards Associated with Walking and Working Surfaces. Many injuries and
property damage mishaps occur on walking and working surfaces, with slips and falls the most
common mishaps. Good design and maintenance, together with proper lighting, contribute to a
safe walking or working surface. Workers are responsible for wearing proper footwear and using
walking surfaces in a safe manner. The primary reasons for walking surface mishaps are:
   7.1.1. Poor Housekeeping. Obstacles in walk areas, liquid spills, sawdust accumulations and
   the use of slippery surface cleaners can cause slipping hazards and shall be cleaned up
   immediately to prevent slips, falls and injuries.
   7.1.2. Dangerous Surface Conditions. Cracks, holes, protruding nails, broken surface
   materials, slippery finishes, surfaces of different elevations and improper design for the
   intended use can cause worker injuries.
   7.1.3. Inadequate Lighting. Incorrect or insufficient lighting may lead to slips, falls or
   injuries. Building or facility managers shall ensure lighting is sufficient for walking surfaces
   in their work/facility area and that obstacles are visible.
7.2. Requirements.
   7.2.1. Interior Walking and Working Surfaces.
       7.2.1.1. Layout. Proper layout, spacing and arrangement of equipment, machinery,
       passageways and aisles are essential to orderly operations and to avoid congestion. Good
       layout can best be achieved in the design stage, with recommendations from the
       installation Ground Safety office, Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight, BE, CE and
       Public Health (PH). Whether a facility is in the design stage, being remodeled or when
       repositioning equipment and machinery, basic layout considerations are important factors
       in planning a facility for safe operations. All interior walking and working surfaces that
       are part of the means of egress shall comply with UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection
       Engineering for Facilities, and NFPA 101, The Life Safety Code.
          7.2.1.1.1. Equipment and machinery shall be arranged to permit an even flow of
          materials. Sufficient space shall be provided to handle the material with the least
          possible interference from or to workers or other work being performed. Machines
          shall be placed so it will not be necessary for an operator to stand in a passageway,
          aisle or exit access. Additionally, machine positioning shall allow for easy
          maintenance, cleaning and removal of scrap. After the initial positioning of
          equipment and machines is decided, clear zones (workspaces) of sufficient
          dimensions to accommodate typical work shall be established. If material exceeds
          established clear zones, rope and stanchions may be used to temporarily extend the
          workspace. Marking of machine clear zones is optional. The installation Ground
          Safety office and shop supervisor shall determine the need to mark clear zones based
          upon hazard potential. Yellow or yellow-and-black hash-marked lines, two (2) to
          three (3) inches wide, shall be used when marking is necessary.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        65



        7.2.1.1.2. Passageways, aisles and exit accesses shall be provided to permit free
        movement of workers and material, and shall be independent of clear zones and
        storage spaces and shall be clearly recognizable. Markings shall be used unless the
        number of workers and location of machines precludes this requirement. In these
        cases the installation Ground Safety office shall approve the exclusion. Floor
        markings shall provide a contrast to the floor color, such as yellow lines 2 to 3 inches
        wide on a gray floor.
        7.2.1.1.3. Where powered materials handling equipment (lift truck, etc.) is used,
        facility layout shall provide enough clearance in aisles, loading docks and through
        doorways to permit safe turns. Obstructions that could create hazards shall not be
        permitted in aisles. Aisles shall be at least two (2) feet wider than the widest vehicle
        used or most common material being transported. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.176.,
        Handling Materials—General, for additional information.
        7.2.1.1.4. Aisles shall be at least 36 inches wide to permit free movement of workers,
        equipment and supplies. A minimum of 18 inches shall be provided for passageways
        formed by or between movable obstructions. Refer to NFPA 101 and UFC 3-600-01
        for additional information.
        7.2.1.1.5. Sufficient access and working space shall be provided and maintained
        around all electrical equipment. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.303., General Requirements-
        Electrical, for additional information.
        7.2.1.1.6. Coefficient of Friction (COF) of Walking and Working Surfaces. The
        finished surface shall have a coefficient of friction (COF) of at least 0.5 for level
        surfaces and 0.8 for sloped surfaces, as measured using ANSI/ASSE A1264.2.,
        Standard for Provision of Slip Resistance on Walking/Working Surface, or other
        nationally recognized standards. Consult the installation CE facility design section
        when COF guidance for a specific work surface is required. Submit AF Form 332,
        Basic Civil Engineer Work Request, when a COF survey is required. If the safety or
        health of personnel is a factor, the work request shall be coordinated with the
        installation Ground Safety office or BE, who may assign a risk assessment code
        (RAC) if warranted. Note: This requirement applies to all types of floors and other
        walking/working surfaces, including vinyl, tile, wood, carpet, steel, concrete, etc., and
        any coatings used on them. Hangars shall also meet guidance provided in ETL 96-5,
        Hangar Concrete Floor Reflective Coating Criteria.
        7.2.1.1.7. Coating (includes painting/de-painting) of Walking and Working Surfaces.
           7.2.1.1.7.1. Walking and working surface coatings shall exhibit anti-skid
           properties to reduce the risk of worker slips and falls. While all surfaces do not
           require coating, if coating is needed, only coatings (i.e., paint) or repair materials
           having anti-skid properties shall be used. The user shall verify anti-skid properties
           with coating manufacturer or supplier before purchase. Note: Painting floors for
           cosmetic purposes is not permitted. However, urethane, latex or paints of similar
           composition may be used, if approved locally, for demarcation lines, safety zones
           and security warnings. Painting needed to brighten a dark work environment to
           make it easier to see work and avoid obstacles is not considered cosmetic.
66                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


            7.2.1.1.7.2. All projects involving the coating/recoating/repair of walking and
            working surfaces shall be submitted through the installation CE, BE and Ground
            Safety office for evaluation of coating specifications and application processes
            IAW AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Material Management.
            7.2.1.1.7.3. Walking and working surfaces coated/painted without anti-skid
            materials shall be evaluated for removal by the owner/user using Risk
            Management (RM) processes to identify and categorize the surfaces as low to
            high risk to prioritize and budget replacement with anti-skid coatings. Working
            surfaces that are high risk shall be identified to the installation Ground Safety
            office and/or BE, who may assign a RAC, if warranted. Application and removal
            of coatings can present health, safety and environmental risks. These activities,
            including self-help, CE operations and contract operations shall be coordinated
            with the installation Environmental Management office, BE and Ground Safety
            office IAW AFI 32-7086 prior to starting the removal/application process. The
            organization requesting coating removal must meet all health, safety and
            environmental requirements applicable to the coating materials and removal
            process.
     7.2.1.2. Condition. Floors, aisles and passageways shall be kept clear and in good repair,
     with no obstructions, free of defects that can endanger workers or interfere with handling
     of materials, or hinder people leaving during emergencies. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.22.,
     General Requirements-Walking Working Surfaces, for additional information.
        7.2.1.2.1. Every floor, work area, aisle and passageway shall be maintained free from
        protruding nails, splinters, holes and loose boards, and kept in a dry condition.
        7.2.1.2.2. Floors of all shop areas, service rooms, halls and storerooms shall be kept
        clean, free of oil, grease, gasoline, water and other slippery substances. Spills shall be
        immediately cleaned or covered with a noncombustible absorbent material. Drip or
        oil pans shall be used whenever the possibility of spilling or dripping exists.
        7.2.1.2.3. Floors shall not be cleaned with flammable liquids. IAW AFI 32-7086,
        Hazardous Materials Management, floor cleaning chemicals not currently loaded in
        the standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system must be approved by the
        installation Hazardous Materials Management Program (HMMP) Team prior to use.
        Adequate ventilation shall be provided and/or respiratory protection may be required.
        Combustible or explosive dust shall be eliminated at the source. If this is not possible,
        it shall be minimized during sweeping by spreading a noncombustible sweeping
        compound over the floor.
        7.2.1.2.4. After floors have been properly cleaned, nonskid finishing compounds may
        be used. In some locations, such as electroplating shops, finishing compounds shall
        not be applied if there is a possibility of a reaction with shop chemicals.
        7.2.1.2.5. When floors are being cleaned or finishing compounds applied, signs shall
        be posted to warn workers of a slipping hazard and shall remain in place until floors
        have dried. The size and placement of these signs shall be at the discretion of the
        supervisor, but shall be visible to those entering the hazardous area. These caution
        signs shall be yellow with black lettering.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        67



        7.2.1.2.6. Areas which are usually wet shall have nonslip surfaces where personnel
        normally walk or work. Signs shall be posted stating ―Caution—Wet Floors‖ when no
        other controls are available.
        7.2.1.2.7. Passageways, aisles and exit accesses shall be kept clear for easy access to
        emergency equipment and to enable firefighters to reach a fire. Additionally, areas
        adjacent to sprinkler control valves, fuse boxes and electrical switch panels shall not
        be obstructed. Refer to NFPA Standard 70, The National Electrical Code (NEC), and
        other NFPA standards for additional information on clearance distances.
     7.2.1.3. Loading Capacity. Supervisors shall ensure equipment weight and distribution
     comply with maximum floor loading capacity for all above grade storage areas (including
     areas above basements). The weights of equipment, such as hoists suspended under a
     floor, shall also be considered when determining floor loading capacity. The supervisor
     shall have signs that identify the floor load capacity determined by the installation CE
     permanently installed in plain view of all workers. CE shall approve the installation of all
     equipment weighing more than 500 pounds in any multi-story building. Supervisors shall
     ensure heavy loads are evenly distributed according to the floor‘s safe load limit. Refer to
     29 CFR 1910.22. for additional information.
     7.2.1.4. Floor Sloping and Drains. Floor drains are required when floors are subject to
     water, moisture or other liquids, such as those found in aircraft maintenance functions,
     battery shops and kitchen areas. Floors shall be sloped to allow liquids to naturally flow
     to the drains. Drains shall be kept clear to prevent clogging, especially when hazardous or
     contaminated materials are `present. All new construction shall provide for drains in wet
     process areas. If drains are not available, wet areas shall be immediately roped off,
     cleaned up and dried before permitting other personnel to enter the area. False floors,
     platforms, mats or other dry standing places shall be provided where practicable.
     Protective footwear for wet slippery surfaces shall be provided where appropriate.
     7.2.1.5. Illumination. Consult the local CE facility design section whenever specific
     guidance on lighting is required. Submit an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
     Request, when a lighting survey is required. If the safety of personnel is a factor, the
     work request shall be coordinated with the installation Ground Safety office, who may
     assign a RAC, if warranted. All fluorescent light bulbs contain toxic materials and shall
     be managed IAW local disposal criteria for hazardous waste. Consult with the installation
     Environmental Management Office on disposal guidance for hazardous waste materials.
     When fluorescent lighting fixtures are used, supervisors shall ensure that any
     stroboscopic effect with moving machinery is avoided. Control of light is important to
     prevent glare and harsh shadows. Soft shadows are usually acceptable, but harsh shadows
     should be avoided since they may obscure hazards or interfere with visibility.
     Supplementary lighting or additional lighting shall be provided where general lighting is
     not sufficient.
     7.2.1.6. Guards for Floor and Wall Openings. Every floor opening, such as a hatchway,
     chute, pit, trap door, manhole and ladderway, shall be guarded. The type of guard used
     depends on the location, reason for the opening and frequency of use. Refer to 29 CFR
68                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


     1910.23., Guarding Floor and Wall Openings and Holes, for additional guidance. One of
     the following guards shall be installed:
        7.2.1.6.1. Standard Railings and Toeboards.
            7.2.1.6.1.1. Railings and toeboards shall be permanently attached leaving only
            one exposed side, which shall have a removable railing. When the exposed side is
            not in use, the railing shall be left in place. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.23. for specific
            detail on construction and installation.
            7.2.1.6.1.2. Toeboards are required wherever falling objects may present a
            hazard. Toeboards can be constructed of any 4-inch high rigid material, either
            solid or with openings not greater than 1 inch. They shall be securely fastened in
            place with not more than one-fourth inch clearance from the floor except at the
            entrance of the opening. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.23. for additional information.
        7.2.1.6.2. Floor Opening Cover. A cover shall be used for less frequently used
        openings where traffic across the opening prevents the use of fixed railings, such as
        openings located in aisle spaces. In addition, covers or guards shall be used to protect
        people from the hazards of open pits, tanks, vats, ditches, etc.
            7.2.1.6.2.1. Covers shall have at least the same rated load capacity as the floor.
            7.2.1.6.2.2. Cover design, installation and related hardware shall not pose a
            tripping hazard.
            7.2.1.6.2.3. The cover shall be in place when the opening is not in use. The
            opening shall be protected by removable railings leaving only one exposed side
            when the cover is open or removed. Someone shall be present at the exposed side
            whenever the worker is not present.
     7.2.1.7. Guards.
        7.2.1.7.1. Every stairway and ladderway opening shall be guarded by standard
        railings and toeboards on all open sides, except at the entrance of the opening. If there
        is danger of a person walking straight into the opening, a swinging gate or offset
        passage shall be used.
        7.2.1.7.2. Every covered opening in a surface, such as a skylight floor opening, shall
        be guarded by a skylight screen or standard railing with toeboards on all exposed
        sides. Skylight screen grillwork or slatwork shall be capable of withstanding a load of
        at least 200 pounds applied at any area of the screen. Refer to 29 CFR1910.23. for
        additional information.
        7.2.1.7.3. All open-sided floors, platforms and runways four (4) feet or more above
        the ground or floor shall be guarded by a standard railing on all open sides, except at
        ramp entrance to a ramp, stairway or fixed ladder. Collapsible or removable railings
        may be installed on a runway, but shall only be removed when a special task (such as
        oiling, shafting or filling tank cars) is being performed and other protective measures,
        approved by the installation Ground Safety office, are used. Railings shall be
        reinstalled when the task is complete.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        69



         7.2.1.7.4. Every permanent or temporary wall opening (to include windows) less than
         three (3) feet above the floor (where there is a four [4] foot or more drop) shall be
         guarded. Guards include railings, doors, slats, grillwork, half-doors or equivalent
         protection. The guard may be removable, but shall be installed when the opening is
         not in use. A toeboard shall be installed when falling materials may present a hazard.
         Grab handles shall be installed on each side of the opening when the operation
         requires reaching through or around the unprotected opening. Refer to 29 CFR
         1910.23. for additional information.
         7.2.1.7.5. Guard railings shall consist of securely mounted top rails, intermediate
         rails and posts. The minimum vertical height shall be 36 to 44 inches from the upper
         surface of the top rail to the floor, platform, runway or ramp level. Heights greater
         than 44 inches are permissible, but may require midrails if the opening beneath the
         top rail is 19 inches or greater. Screens, mesh, vertical posts or panels may be used in
         place of midrails, provided the material used can withstand a force of at least 200
         pounds. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.23(e)(1) for additional information.
  7.2.2. Exterior Walking and Working Surfaces. The proper layout and condition of exterior
  surfaces is important to the safe and efficient movement of people and equipment. The
  placement of walkways and parking areas is controlled by the installation CE. However,
  changes in workplace requirements, weather conditions and an increase in assigned personnel
  could require the supervisor to reroute pedestrian or equipment traffic. Note: Paragraph
  7.2.1.1.6, Coefficient of Friction (COF) of Walking and Working Surfaces, also applies to
  exterior walking and working surfaces.
     7.2.2.1. Loading Docks. Frequently used loading docks shall be located away from
     principal streets and intersections. Vehicles parked at docks shall not block general
     vehicular traffic unless control devices, such as cones, barricades or warning signs are
     used to redirect traffic. Loading docks shall adhere to fall protection requirements in
     paragraph 7.2.1.7.4.
         7.2.2.1.1. Dock surfaces shall be smooth and even. Where necessary, aisleways shall
         be marked. Edges of docks shall be marked with four-inch wide yellow lines when
         there is a chance of workers falling. Where the potential for serious injury exists,
         removable railings shall be used.
         7.2.2.1.2. The dock shall be at least two (2) feet wider than the widest vehicle or
         more common material being transported. Additional clearance shall be provided to
         permit safe turns.
     7.2.2.2. Parking Lots. The parking lots shall be smooth, have good drainage and be free
     of pedestrian tripping hazards. Stony or rough ground shall be avoided. Walkways shall
     be provided. Entrances and exits shall not have obstructions that block a driver‘s or
     pedestrian‘s view of traffic. Supervisors shall contact the installation Ground Safety
     office and CE for more detailed information. Specifications for signs are contained in
     UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard.
     7.2.2.3. Walkways. Exterior walkways shall be kept clear of obstacles that block the
     right-of-way or present slipping and tripping hazards. Facility managers shall ensure
 70                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       removal of accumulated snow or ice. Abrasive materials, salt or other snow melting
       material shall be used on walking surfaces when it is impractical or impossible to remove
       snow and/or ice. Night lighting shall be used to highlight hazards. When loose gravel or
       crushed rock is used for surfacing, the largest dimensions of material used shall not
       exceed one-half of an inch. Motorized vehicles shall not be operated over elevated
       walkways unless the load bearing capacity of the walkway will support the vehicle‘s
       weight. Broken, uneven or cracked surfaces shall be repaired.
       7.2.2.4. Grounds. All grounds adjacent to work areas shall be kept free of hazardous
       materials, trash, weeds and unguarded pits, openings or obstacles.
           7.2.2.4.1. Materials shall not be stored, left under or piled against buildings, doors,
           exits or stairways.
           7.2.2.4.2. During the growing season, frequent lawn mowing and edging is necessary
           to keep installation grounds in good condition. Poisonous or toxic plants shall not be
           used for landscaping without prior approval of the installation medical services.
           Weeds shall not be permitted to grow excessively or to accumulate. Trees and bushes
           adjacent to walkways shall be trimmed to permit a clear path for pedestrians.
           7.2.2.4.3. All open drainage ditches that present a hazard shall be clearly identified in
           the daytime, guarded by fences or barriers and illuminated or marked with warning
           flashers at night.
       7.2.2.5. Construction. All construction work shall be clearly identified by signs that can
       be read from at least 50 feet, in addition to barriers marked with night reflective
       materials. Illumination or warning flashers shall also be used after dark.
7.3. Fixed Industrial Stairs and Ramps. Note: Egress components, such as stairs, ramps,
guard rails or hand rails, constructed to any 1970 or newer edition of NFPA 101, The Life Safety
Code, are acceptable.
   7.3.1. Human Factors Associated with Fixed Industrial Stairs and Ramps. Many injuries are
   the result of falls when people move from one level to another on stairs or ramps. Proper
   design and construction of stairs and ramps will help prevent these falls. Other aids, such as
   handrails, reduce the threat of slips. Poor lighting or housekeeping, faulty treads and slippery
   surfaces are unsafe conditions which often lead to injuries. Others result when people run up
   or down stairs, fail to use handrails, wear shoes with slippery soles and/or heels or are
   careless.
   7.3.2. Requirements. The selection of a particular type of fixed industrial stairway or ramp is
   dependent upon the location, intended use and existing environmental conditions, and is
   normally performed by the installation CE with recommendations from the installation
   Ground Safety office and FES Flight.
       7.3.2.1. Design Consideration. Stairway and ramp designs may have been based on prior
       use of a facility, whereas current use may dictate modifications or replacement of
       components. This could include changing the width, angle of rise, length and vertical
       clearance, as well as increasing load bearing capacity, inclusion of railings or enclosing
       open risers. The following minimum specifications and requirements shall be used for
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          71



     inspection criteria, supplemented as necessary with specific design criteria from the
     installation CE and Ground Safety offices.
     7.3.2.2. Strength. Fixed stairs and ramps shall be designed and built to carry a load of 5
     times the normal live load anticipated but not less than a moving concentrated load of
     1,000 pounds. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.24. for additional information.
     7.3.2.3. Width. Fixed stairs, if part of the exit access, shall have a minimum width of 36
     inches if the occupant load of the building or structure is less than 50 persons. If the
     occupant load is greater than 50, the minimum stair width is 44 inches. Fixed ramps, if
     part of the exit access, shall have a minimum width of 44 inches. The authority having
     jurisdiction may reduce this requirement to 30 inches in certain cases. For ramps or stairs
     not part of the exit access, a minimum width of 22 inches shall be provided. Refer to
     NFPA 101 and UFC 3-600-01 and 29 CFR 1910.24. for additional information.
     7.3.2.4. Angle of Rise. Stairs shall meet the requirements of NFPA 101 and UFC 3-600-
     01. Fixed stairs not part of the exit access shall be installed at angles to the horizontal of
     30 to 50 degrees. For existing stairs that are part of the exit access, a maximum riser
     height of eight (8) inches and minimum tread depth of nine (9) inches is allowed. Tread
     depth and riser height must be consistent throughout a new facility with a riser height of 4
     to 7 inches and a minimum tread depth of 11 inches. Tread depth and riser heights must
     also be consistent throughout a staircase. Where the slope is less than 30 degrees, a ramp
     with a non-slip surface shall be installed. Table 7.1 contains recommended dimensions.
     However, the rise and/or tread combinations are not limited to those given. Any uniform
     combination of rise and/or tread dimensions may be used. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.24 for
     additional information.
     7.3.2.5. Ramps. Ramps not part of the exit access shall follow guidance in Table 7.2 For
     ramps that are part of the exit access, a maximum slope of 1 to 8 inches is allowed and
     shall meet the requirements of NFPA 101.
     7.3.2.6. Width of Landings. Landings and platforms not part of the exit access shall not
     be less than the width of the stairs and a minimum of 30 inches in length, measured in the
     direction of travel. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.24 for additional guidance. When doors or
     gates open directly onto a stairway, they shall not reduce the available width of the
     landing to less than 20 inches. Landings in stairs or ramps that are part of the exit access
     shall meet the requirements of NFPA 101.
     7.3.2.7. Vertical Clearance. Where there is less than seven (7) feet of headroom over
     stairs, obstructions shall be padded. When they cannot be padded, obstructions shall be
     color coded yellow or yellow-and-black stripes to highlight the hazards. In all cases,
     caution signs shall be used to warn people of low clearances. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.24.
     for additional information.
     7.3.2.8. Risers. Stairs having tread depth of less than nine (9) inches shall have open
     risers. Stairs of nine (9) inches or more may also have open risers. Risers shall be 6-1/2 to
     9-1/2 inches high. Rise height and tread width shall be uniform throughout any flight of
     stairs, including any foundation structure used as one or more treads of the stairs. Risers
72                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


     in stairs that are part of the exit access shall meet requirements of NFPA 101. Refer to 29
     CFR 1910.24. and NFPA 101 for additional information.
     7.3.2.9. Treads. All treads shall be slip-resistant and free of projections or lips that could
     cause a tripping hazard.
     7.3.2.10. Grating. Open grating type treads are desirable for stairs which are not
     enclosed. The use of open treads prevents the buildup of rainwater and snow on the tread
     surface.
     7.3.2.11. Sidewalk Ramps. Sidewalk ramps shall be installed where equipment, such as
     housekeeping carts or hand trucks, are used.
     7.3.2.12. Stair Railings and Guards. Note: Refer to 29 CFR 1910.23. and 1910.24. for
     additional information on stair railings and guards.
        7.3.2.12.1. Every flight of fixed industrial stairs with four (4) or more risers shall
        have standard guardrails or standard handrails as called for below. The width of the
        stair shall be measured clear of all obstructions except handrails.
            7.3.2.12.1.1. Stairs less than 44 inches wide with both sides enclosed shall have
            at least one handrail, preferably on the right side going down.
            7.3.2.12.1.2. Stairs less than 44 inches wide with one side open shall have at least
            one guardrail on the open side.
            7.3.2.12.1.3. Stairs less than 44 inches wide with both sides open shall have one
            guardrail on each side.
            7.3.2.12.1.4. Stairs more than 44 inches wide but less than 88 inches wide shall
            have a handrail on each enclosed side and a guardrail on each open side.
            7.3.2.12.1.5. Stairs 88 or more inches wide shall have one handrail on each
            enclosed side, one guardrail on each open side and one intermediate guardrail
            built midway of the width.
        7.3.2.12.2. Spiraling and winding stairs shall have a handrail offset to stop people
        from walking on the parts of the treads that are less than six (6) inches wide.
     7.3.2.13. Illumination. Stairs and ramps shall be lighted so all treads and landings are
     visible. Consult the local CE facility design section whenever specific guidance on
     lighting is required.
     7.3.2.14. Inclined Ladders. Some Air Force facilities have permanent stairways installed
     which exceed a 50-degree angle. These stairways are commonly referred to as inclined
     ladders. Where an inclined ladder has been installed, it shall have handrails on both sides
     and open risers. New construction shall have stairs installed within the preferred range of
     30-50 degrees.
     7.3.2.15. Maintenance. Stairs and ramps shall be kept clean, free of obstructions or
     slippery substances, and in good repair at all times. Supervisors will ensure:
        7.3.2.15.1. Loose boards, insecure treads, protruding nails and torn or worn stair
        treads are repaired or replaced immediately.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          73



          7.3.2.15.2. Posters, bulletin boards and other objects that could distract a person's
          attention are not placed in stairwells or rampways.
          7.3.2.15.3. Slippery surfaces are replaced or made safe by coating them with nonslip
          surface materials.
          7.3.2.15.4. Treads and risers are of uniform size.
          7.3.2.15.5. Stair nosings are securely fastened and rounded or beveled to prevent
          personnel from catching their heels on the treads.
          7.3.2.15.6. Guardrails and handrails are smooth, free of splinters or burrs and
          securely mounted.
          7.3.2.15.7. Outside stairways, entrances, sidewalks, loading docks and ramps are
          cleared of snow and ice, and that abrasive materials, such as sand, ash or ice melting
          chemicals, are readily available and used during inclement weather. This also
          includes all emergency exits and walks leading from them.
7.4. Fixed Ladders.
   7.4.1. Hazards and Human Factors Associated with Fixed ladders. Most falls are caused by
   using ladders that are in poor condition and/or unsafe acts such as running up and down,
   jumping, reaching too far out to the sides and workers being physically unfit for this activity.
   These hazardous acts and conditions can be prevented by proper selection and training of
   workers; supervisory enforcement of safe ladder use; and proper design, installation and
   maintenance of fixed ladders and climbing devices.
   7.4.2. Requirements.
      7.4.2.1. Acquisition. Fixed ladders, and their parts and accessories, and safety devices
      shall meet requirements of 29 CFR 1910.27., Fixed Ladders. Procurement specifications
      shall include permanent treatment for corrosion control so future treatment shall not be
      needed. Refer to Military Specifications (Mil Specs) for protective coating criteria.
      7.4.2.2. Design and Installation. Fixed ladders provide a means of access to roofs, pits,
      silos, towers, tanks and other limited-access areas. Fixed industrial stairs shall be
      provided where access is daily or during each shift for gauging, inspection, regular
      maintenance or when carrying tools or equipment is normally required and sufficient
      space is available. Fixed ladders may be used when a stairway cannot be used. The
      following paragraphs provide general design and installation criteria for fixed ladders.
          7.4.2.2.1. Length. Ladders 20 feet or less shall be of a continuous length. When they
          are more than 20 feet and of continuous length, the following requirements apply:
              7.4.2.2.1.1. Landing Platforms. A landing platform is provided for a person to
              rest or gain access to another section of the ladder. Platforms shall be provided
              every 30 feet or fraction thereof. Where no cage, well or ladder safety device is
              provided, landing platforms shall be provided for each 20 feet of height or
              fraction thereof.
              7.4.2.2.1.2. The platform shall not be less than 24 inches wide by 30 inches long
              and shall be equipped with standard railings. Toeboards are required where the
74                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


            hazard of objects falling is present. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.27. for additional
            information.
            7.4.2.2.1.3. Ladder Safety Devices, Cages and Wells. Cages and wells merely
            contain a falling climber rather than restricting the distance of fall. Therefore, new
            fixed ladders (where fall protection is required) shall include a safety climb device
            rather than a cage or well. All ladder safety devices such as those that incorporate
            positioning belts, friction brakes and sliding attachments shall meet the design
            requirements of the ladders which they serve. Where a cage is installed, it shall
            extend a minimum of 42 inches above the top of landing, unless other acceptable
            protection is provided. Cages shall extend down the ladder to a point not less than
            seven (7) feet nor more than eight (8) feet above the base of the ladder. Refer to
            29 CFR 1910.27., Fixed Ladders, for specific design and construction
            information. Ladder safety devices, cages or wells are required on all fixed
            ladders more than 20 feet.
     7.4.2.3. Ladder Pitch. The preferred pitch of fixed ladders shall be 75 to 90 degrees from
     the horizontal. Any pitch below 75 degrees is substandard and shall be avoided. Ladders
     with a pitch in excess of 90 degrees are prohibited. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.27. for
     additional information.
     7.4.2.4. Load Capacity. All ladders, platforms, appurtenances and fastenings shall meet
     the load requirements of 29 CFR 1910.27.
     7.4.2.5. Lighting. Adequate illumination shall be available when using ladders. Lamps
     shall be installed so the light does not reflect in a climber‘s eyes. Consult the installation
     CE facility design section when specific guidance on lighting is required.
     7.4.2.6. Access. Where unauthorized use of a fixed ladder is a problem, the facility
     manager or security department shall ensure the ladders are secured from unauthorized
     access. Ladders available to public access require guarding to prevent unauthorized
     access. Typically, the bottom seven (7) feet shall be guarded. Examples of guarding
     include the use of a fence with locked gates and making the bottom portion portable or
     spring loaded and available only as needed. Additionally, there must be a warning sign
     prohibiting access by unauthorized persons.
     7.4.2.7. Slipping. When the potential for climbers to get mud, oil or grease on their
     footwear creates a slipping hazard, a mat of crushed rock, a raised platform or a boot
     scraper shall be provided.
     7.4.2.8. Electric Lines. Electrical conductors shall not be installed on or adjacent to fixed
     metal ladders, unless they are beyond reach and cannot be used as a handrail or grabbed
     in an emergency. This distance shall be at least five (5) feet from the ladder. If there is
     any potential for contact with parts of electric equipment or circuits, these parts shall be
     de-energized and locked out IAW Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and
     Tagout).
     7.4.2.9. Iron Rung Ladders. Iron rung ladders shall be built into the walls of each
     manhole over 12 feet deep. The distance between rungs is the same as other fixed
     ladders. More detailed design criteria can be found in 29 CFR 1910.27. and ANSI Al4.3.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        75



     7.4.2.10. Grounding and Bonding. Ladders and related equipment shall be grounded
     and/or bonded, to drain off accumulated static electricity when static electricity is
     hazardous to the work operation, such as fuel cell repair or refueling vehicle
     maintenance. Static discharge plates shall also be provided.
  7.4.3. Inspections.
     7.4.3.1. A formal, fully documented inspection of all fixed ladders shall be accomplished
     upon installation and at least every three (3) years thereafter. These inspections shall be
     performed by the installation CE for ladders installed on real property facilities or real
     property installed equipment (RPIE). The using organization is responsible for ensuring
     inspections are done for facilities and equipment which are not real property. When
     qualified personnel are not available in using organizations, the installation CE shall
     provide assistance. Inspection documentation shall include the type ladder and safety
     climb device installed, location, a detailed list of all discrepancies and corrective action
     status.
     7.4.3.2. Climbers shall be alert to potential hazards and perform informal inspections of
     fixed ladders prior to every use. No attempt to climb shall be made until all hazardous
     conditions are corrected. Specific hazards to look for during inspections are: loose, worn
     and damaged rungs or side rails; damaged or corroded bolts and rivet heads; damaged or
     corroded handrails and brackets on platforms; and deteriorated masonry where fixed
     ladder anchorages are secured to a structure, including loose or damaged carrier rails or
     cables.
  7.4.4. Maintenance. Repairs made to fixed ladders and related equipment shall meet the
  following requirements:
     7.4.4.1. Materials used shall meet or exceed original construction.
     7.4.4.2. Any modification to ladder components, safety climb device or related
     equipment shall be approved by the installation CE, property manager and Ground Safety
     office.
     7.4.4.3. All welding shall be performed by a welder experienced in the materials of the
     fixed ladder.
  7.4.5. Selection of Personnel. Some individuals become spatially disoriented when working
  on elevated ladders or platforms. This condition is known as height vertigo. Common
  reactions to this condition are to ―freeze‖ and hang on to any permanent support or to
  experience dizziness, nausea, trembling and/or loss of consciousness. Supervisors shall be
  vigilant in screening and observing workers required to work at heights. If the supervisor
  suspects an employee may be subject to vertigo, the employee shall be referred to the local
  medical facility for evaluation prior to resuming any height work. Workers descending into
  pits or shafts may also experience vertigo. Individuals known to experience vertigo shall be
  disqualified as ladder users.
  7.4.6. Ladder Use. Continued safe use of ladders requires proper climbing practices at all
  times. Supervisors shall ensure climbers are trained to:
     7.4.6.1. Check ladder for defects and slippery substances.
 76                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      7.4.6.2. Ensure ladder and climber‘s feet are free of slippery substances.
      7.4.6.3. Raise or lower needed tools and materials by handlines after reaching the work
      position—never carry.
      7.4.6.4. Face the ladder and use both hands to grip the rungs or side rails firmly.
      7.4.6.5. Wear slip-resistant shoes with heels.
      7.4.6.6. Climb carefully, without haste. Never run up or down, nor slide down the ladder.
      7.4.6.7. Never jump from the ladder.
      7.4.6.8. Remove hand jewelry (rings) prior to climbing.
7.5. Portable Ladders.
   7.5.1. Hazards and Human Factors Associated with Portable Ladders. Falls are the primary
   hazard associated with portable ladders. Falls result from a number of unsafe acts and
   conditions such as ladder hazards, which are minimized if workers adhere to proper ladder
   discipline and if supervisors ensure equipment is inspected, maintained in good condition and
   properly used. The following practices are prohibited:
      7.5.1.1. Ladders set on unstable surfaces.
      7.5.1.2. Ladders placed in front of doors which open towards the ladder without proper
      guarding.
      7.5.1.3. Ladders used as scaffolds.
      7.5.1.4. Personnel reaching too far out to the sides.
      7.5.1.5. Personnel standing too high to maintain their balance.
      7.5.1.6. Use of a defective ladder, i.e., broken rail or rung.
      7.5.1.7. Improvising and using a make-shift ladder.
      7.5.1.8. Personnel carrying materials in their hands while ascending or descending a
      ladder, or descending with their back to the ladder.
      7.5.1.9. Using a ladder with conductive side rails while working on electrical circuits.
   7.5.2. Requirements.
      7.5.2.1. Acquisition and Selection Considerations.
          7.5.2.1.1. Portable ladders shall meet ANSI design and construction specifications in
          Table 7.3 Personnel needing access to ANSI standards shall contact the installation
          Ground Safety office for guidance and assistance. Exception: Fire department
          ladders shall be maintained and inspected IAW NFPA 1931, Standard for
          Manufacturer’s Design of Fire Department Ground Ladders, and NFPA1932,
          Standard on Use, Maintenance, and Service Testing of In-Service Fire Department
          Ground Ladders.
          7.5.2.1.2. There are a variety of ladder styles; selection, to include construction
          material and proper size, shall be based on where and how the ladder may be used.
          This chapter addresses step and extension ladders. These ladders are most commonly
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     77



        constructed from wood, metal and fiberglass. However, the general guidance
        presented is applicable to most portable ladders used in the Air Force. MAJCOM,
        DRU and FOA ground safety staffs shall determine its applicability to special purpose
        ladders not adequately covered by ANSI standards.
            7.5.2.1.2.1. Ladders come in four workload ratings. Table 7.4 gives the basic
            differences in these ladders. Supervisors shall order Type IA or I ladders
            whenever possible. Type II ladders shall only be considered when local purchase
            is required and local manufacturers cannot provide Type IA or I. Type III ladders
            shall not be procured for industrial use.
            7.5.2.1.2.2. The supervisor shall consider the location as well as durability when
            selecting the ladder. Aluminum ladders are normally lighter than wood while steel
            ladders are as heavy or heavier. Metal ladders and wood ladders with metal
            reinforced side rails or metal rungs shall not be used in areas where a worker or
            the ladder could contact exposed energized electrical circuits. Carrying steel and
            wood ladders is fatiguing if the worker has to carry them for a considerable
            distance.
     7.5.2.2. Inspections. Thorough visual inspections of ladders shall be made by the
     supervisor when the ladder is initially received and prior to being placed in service.
     Workers shall perform a visual inspection prior to each use. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.25.,
     Portable Wood Ladders, for additional information. Defects or damage to look for
     include:
        7.5.2.2.1. Evidence the ladder was exposed to excessive heat (such as in a fire) or
        corrosive substances. When ladders are so exposed, their ability to support the
        designed working load shall be questioned. The ladder shall be retested IAW ANSI
        standards.
        7.5.2.2.2. Side rails, steps, rungs or related hardware that are cracked, split or
        deformed.
        7.5.2.2.3. Pulleys, cables and ropes which bind or are frayed.
        7.5.2.2.4. Rivets, connections and spreaders for looseness or shearing.
        7.5.2.2.5. Nonskid base material that is loose or missing. Metal and metal-reinforced
        single and extension ladders, except aircraft boarding ladders, shall be equipped with
        safety shoes, spurs, spikes or combinations thereof to prevent slipping.
        7.5.2.2.6. Ladders with conductive side rails that are not marked for electrical
        hazards. Ladders not already marked with safety use instructions by the manufacturer
        shall be stenciled, ―DANGER — DO NOT USE AROUND ELECTRICAL
        EQUIPMENT,‖ in two-inch high red letters or the largest letters the surface will
        allow (minimum letter size is one inch).
        7.5.2.2.7. Ladders in which rungs and steps designed for use in ascending or
        descending on metal or plastic ladders are not corrugated, knurled, dimpled or coated
        with skid-resistant materials.
78                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


        7.5.2.2.8. Ladders with broken or missing steps, rungs or cleats, broken side rails, or
        other defects. Ladders with these defects shall not be used.
     7.5.2.3. Maintenance. Proper maintenance ensures the safe condition of the ladder.
     Hardware, fittings and related equipment shall be checked frequently and kept in proper
     working condition. All bolts and rivets shall be in place and secured. Joints between steps
     or rungs and the side rails shall be tight. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.26., Portable Metal
     Ladders, for additional information.
        7.5.2.3.1. Lubricate metal bearings of locks, wheels, pulleys, etc., as required to keep
        them working.
        7.5.2.3.2. Replace frayed or worn rope.
        7.5.2.3.3. Keep safety feet and other parts in good working condition.
        7.5.2.3.4. Coat wood, metal and fiberglass ladders with a suitable protective material,
        when required. Do not paint wood ladders with an opaque coating, since possible
        defects may be covered up. If protective coatings are considered desirable for wooden
        ladders, use only transparent coatings or wood preservatives. Protect metal ladders
        that may come in contact with acids or alkali solutions with a locally approved
        coating. When location demands, protect metal ladders against corrosion caused by
        moisture or salt spray. When plastic ladder rails/surfaces have the appearance of
        exposed fibers or an apparent color change from weather exposure, they shall be
        washed with a mild liquid detergent solution and allowed to air dry. Spray or brush
        the ladder rails with acrylic lacquer, epoxy or other locally approved coating
        sufficient to cover the exposed fibers. Following the first coat, lightly sand the
        fiberglass surface with ―00‖ sandpaper, or equivalent, to smooth the glass bristles.
        Refer to ANSI A14.4., Safety Requirements for Job Made Wooden Ladders, for
        additional information.
     7.5.2.4. Remove from service ladders with defects which cannot be immediately repaired
     and ensure they are scheduled for repair or destruction. Use an AF Form 979, Danger
     Tag, to warn workers that the ladder cannot be used. If a ladder is to be discarded,
     remove it from the maintenance area and cut it in half to prevent further use. Do not
     attempt to straighten or use a bent ladder made of fiberglass.
     7.5.2.5. Requirements Applicable to All Ladders.
        7.5.2.5.1. Inspect ladders before climbing to ensure all parts are in good condition.
        To permit inspection, procure and maintain wood ladders with transparent finish only.
        7.5.2.5.2. Handle ladders with care. Do not drop, jar or misuse them.
        7.5.2.5.3. Store ladders in a way that provides easy access for inspection and permits
        safe withdrawal for use. When possible, store ladders on racks. Ensure the racks have
        enough supporting points to keep the ladders from sagging. Do not place material on
        stored ladders. Store wood ladders in a location free from exposure to the elements
        and excessive heat or dampness.
        7.5.2.5.4. Properly support ladders being transported (horizontally or vertically) on
        vehicles. Make sure supporting points are of a soft material, such as hardwood or
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         79



        rubber- covered iron pipe, to minimize chafing and effects of road shock. Tying the
        ladder to each support point could reduce damage due to road shock.
        7.5.2.5.5. Place portable ladders so the side rails have a secure footing. Ensure the
        top rest for portable rung and cleat ladders is reasonably rigid and has adequate
        strength to support the applied load. Never place a ladder on a slippery, icy, slanting
        or vibrating footing unless it is securely lashed in position.
        7.5.2.5.6. Fasten the ladder securely when the ladder can be knocked over by others
        working in the area. As an alternative, assign someone to steady the bottom or protect
        the area around the ladder against personnel or vehicular traffic.
        7.5.2.5.7. Do not place ladders:
           7.5.2.5.7.1. Over machines with exposed moving parts.
           7.5.2.5.7.2. In front of doors which open toward the ladder unless the door is
           blocked open, locked or a person is stationed at the foot of the ladder to direct
           pedestrian traffic.
           7.5.2.5.7.3. On boxes, barrels or other unstable bases to obtain additional height.
        7.5.2.5.8. If a ladder is used on a walkway, in an aisle or adjacent to a road, position
        cones or barricades to warn and direct pedestrians away from the ladder.
        7.5.2.5.9. On jobs requiring the use of a ladder, place the ladder directly in front of or
        under the work. When work cannot be done without overreaching, move the ladder to
        the proper location or use another approved method (scaffold or work platform).
        7.5.2.5.10. Allow only one person on a portable ladder at any time, unless designed
        for use by two people.
        7.5.2.5.11. When ascending or descending a ladder, face the ladder and maintain a
        firm hold on the ladder.
        7.5.2.5.12. Perform work requiring the use of both hands only on stepladders or
        platform ladders.
        7.5.2.5.13. Place straight and extension-type ladders in a position to have at least one
        (1) foot of slope for each four (4) feet of ladder length. For example, a 12-foot
        extension ladder must be 3 feet from the supporting structure.
        7.5.2.5.14. Use ladders of sufficient length to permit workers to reach their work
        when standing no higher than the third rung from the top of a straight ladder, or the
        second step from the top of a stepladder. Note: The top of a stepladder is not a step
        and is not counted as a step when the ladder is greater than five (5) feet in length.
        7.5.2.5.15. Ensure ladders are equipped with rubber safety feet to prevent slipping.
        7.5.2.5.16. Do not:
           7.5.2.5.16.1. Carry anything that will interfere with the free use of both hands
           when climbing a ladder. Raise material and equipment to the working position
           using a rope and canvas bucket or another approved method.
80                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


            7.5.2.5.16.2. Use ladders as guys, braces, skids, horizontal platforms or scaffolds,
            or for other than their intended purposes.
            7.5.2.5.16.3. Consider nonslip bases (safety feet) as a substitute for care in safely
            placing, lashing or holding a ladder on oily, metal, concrete or slippery surfaces.
            7.5.2.5.16.4. Stand on the top cap of trestle or combination ladders, nor the top
            step of stepladders (three-step aircraft ladders exempted). MAJCOM, DRU and
            FOA ground safety staffs shall evaluate and provide guidance for military-unique
            operations.
            7.5.2.5.16.5. Place ladders on gratings unless the base can be lashed or secured to
            prevent slippage.
            7.5.2.5.16.6. Leave ladders in place unattended.
            7.5.2.5.16.7. Use portable metal or metal reinforced ladders when performing
            work on or near electrical equipment, but use wood or fiberglass ladders. Keep
            them clean. Remove all surface buildup of dirt, grease or oils to avoid creating a
            ready path for electrical current. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.333., Electrical-Selection
            and Use of Work Practices, for additional information. Exception: Fiberglass
            ladders with metal rungs are acceptable.
        7.5.2.5.17. Ladders will be stored when not in use. On the flight line and outdoor
        environments, ladders shall be laid down and secured when not in use. Where
        possible, workers shall secure or remove the ladder to prevent unauthorized use or
        tripping hazards. Exception: The more modern, durable, enhanced ladders such as
        the Little Giant ladders can remain standing in environmentally controlled
        environments, i.e., hangars, spacious warehouses, etc.
     7.5.2.6. Additional Requirements for Extension Ladders.
        7.5.2.6.1. Where possible, portable non-self-supporting ladders shall be used at a
        pitch that places the base of the ladder at a distance from the vertical wall one-fourth
        the working length of the ladder (the length along the ladder between the foot and the
        top support). The ladder shall be placed to prevent slipping or shall be lashed or
        manually held in position.
            7.5.2.6.1.1. In raising the ladder, place it against the structure and extend the
            ladder while the bottom end is held in place by either pushing or by a rope
            furnished to pull the top section in place. Before ascending the top portion of the
            ladder, check carefully to determine that the devices locking the two sections
            together are thoroughly engaged. Ensure the top of the ladder extends at least
            three (3) feet above the support structure.
            7.5.2.6.1.2. In lowering the top section, after raising it slightly to disengage the
            locking devices, allow the ladder to descend slowly while under full control,
            being careful not to place fingers, hands or feet in position to become caught
            between rungs of the two sections.
            7.5.2.6.1.3. To support the top of the ladder at a window opening, a board shall
            be attached across the back of the ladder, extending across the window to provide
            firm support against the building walls or window frames. Refer to ANSI A14.1.,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          81



              Ladders - Wood Safety Requirements, for additional information.
          7.5.2.6.2. Short ladders shall not be spliced together to provide long sections.
          7.5.2.6.3. The minimum overlap for the two sections of two-section extension
          ladders is listed in Table 7.5
          7.5.2.6.4. Portable rung ladders with reinforced rails shall be used only with the
          metal reinforcement on the underside. Ladders of this type shall not be used near
          electrical conductors since the reinforcing itself is a good conductor.
          7.5.2.6.5. A ladder shall not be used to gain access to a roof unless the top of the
          ladder extends at least three (3) feet above the point of support at eave, gutter or roof
          line.
          7.5.2.6.6. Adjustment of extension ladders shall be made by the user only when
          standing at the base of the ladder, so the worker can see when the locks are properly
          engaged.
          7.5.2.6.7. The middle and top sections of sectional or window cleaner's ladders shall
          not be used for bottom sections unless equipped with nonslip bases (safety feet).
          7.5.2.6.8. Extension (multi-section) ladders shall always be raised so the upper
          section overlaps and rests on the bottom section. The upper section shall always
          overlap on the climbing side of the extension ladder.
          7.5.2.6.9. Hooks may be attached at or near the top of portable ladders to provide
          added stability.
      7.5.2.7. Personnel Training. Personnel who use ladders at working heights of four (4)
      feet or more shall be adequately trained in the care and use of different types of ladders.
      The supervisor or a designated trainer shall conduct this training when a worker is first
      assigned. Refer to paragraph 7.4.6 for additional information on ladder training.
      Information presented during safety briefings shall satisfy the periodic training
      requirement. All training shall include hands-on instruction to include inspection of
      ladders for defects, possible electrocution hazards, proper positioning and placement of
      ladders for various job sites. Training shall be documented IAW instructions in AFI 91-
      202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program (paper or electronic system may be
      used).
7.6. Additional Requirements for Stepladders.
   7.6.1. Ladders shall not be used by more than one person at a time unless the ladder was
   specifically designed for use by two (2) people. Only ladders specially designed to support
   greater loads shall be used in combination with ladder jacks and scaffold planks when an
   operation requires more than one person.
   7.6.2. Bracing on the back legs of stepladders shall not be used for climbing because it is
   designed solely for increasing stability.
   7.6.3. Stepladders shall be fully opened out and locked in position.
 82                                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 7.1. Uniform Combination of Stairway Rise and Tread Dimension.
            Uniform Combination of Stairway Rise and Tread Dimension
Angle Horizontal           Rise (In Inches)              Tread Run (In Inches)
30° 35‘                    6½                            11
32° 08‘                    6¾                            10 ¾
33° 41‘                    7                             10 ½
35° 16‘                    7¼                            10 ¼
36° 52‘                    7½                            10
38° 29‘                    7¾                            9¾
40° 08‘                    8                             9½
41° 44‘                    8¼                            9¼
43° 22‘                    8½                            9
45° 00‘                    8¾                            8¾
46° 30‘                    9                             8¾
48° 16‘                    9¼                            8½
49° 54‘                    9½                            8¼

Table 7.2. Ramp Installation Dimension.
                           Ramp Installation Dimension
                (NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, Ramps, Classification)
                                    New Ramps             Existing Ramps
Width                               44 inches (112cm)     30 inches (76 cm)
Slope                               1 in 10 inches        1 in 8 inches
Maximum height slope between                              12 feet (366 cm)
landings

Table 7.3. ANSI Standard on Ladders.
                            ANSI Standard on Ladders
NUMBER                          TITLE
A14.1                           Ladders – Wood Safety Requirements
A14.2                           Ladders – Portable Metal – Safety Requirements
A14.3                           Ladders – Fixed – Safety Requirements
A14.4                           Safety Requirements for Job Made Wooden Ladders
A14.5                           Ladders – Portable Reinforced Plastic – Safety
                                Requirements

Table 7.4. Ladders Workload Ratings.
                             Ladders Workload Ratings
Duty Rating                  Ladder Type                   Working Load (Pounds)
Extra heavy duty             IA                            300
Heavy duty                   I                             250
Medium duty                  II                            225
Light duty                   III                           200
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          83



Table 7.5. Minimum Overlap for Multi- Ladders.
                 Minimum Overlap for Multi-Section Extension Ladders
Size of Ladder (Feet)                       MinimumOverlap (Inches)
Up to and including 32                      34
Over 32, up to and including 36             36
Over 36, up to and including 48             48
Over 48, up to and including 60             60
7.7. Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and
Portable and Fixed Ladders Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   7.7.1. Are all pieces of equipment and machinery arranged to permit an even flow of
   materials? Reference 7.2.1.1.1)
   7.7.2. Are machines positioned so it will not be necessary for an operator to stand in a
   passageway, aisle or exit access? Reference 7.2.1.1.1
   7.7.3. Are machines positioned to allow for easy maintenance, cleaning and removal of
   scrap? Reference 7.2.1.1.1
   7.7.4. Are passageways, aisles and exit accesses provided to permit the free movement of
   employees and material? Reference 7.2.1.1.2
   7.7.5. Are at least 18 inches provided for passageways through or between movable
   obstructions? Reference 7.2.1.1.4
   7.7.6. Are floors kept in good condition and free of defects and obstructions that endanger
   workers, interfere with handling of materials or hinder people leaving the area during
   emergencies? Reference 7.2.1.2
   7.7.7. Are floors of all shops, service rooms, halls and storerooms kept clean and free of
   slippery substances? Reference 7.2.1.2.2
   7.7.8. Are drip or oil pans used whenever the possibility of spilling or dripping exists?
   Reference 7.2.1.2.2
   7.7.9. When floors are being cleaned or finishing compounds are being applied, are signs
   posted to warn workers of a slipping hazard? Reference 7.2.1.2.5
   7.7.10. Are passageways, aisles and exit accesses kept clear for easy access to emergency
   equipment and to enable firefighters to reach a fire, if necessary? Reference 7.2.1.2.7
   7.7.11. Are areas adjacent to fire sprinkler control valves, fuse boxes and electrical switch
   panels clear and unobstructed? Reference 7.2.1.2.7
   7.7.12. Are signs identifying the floor load capacity permanently installed in plain view of
   all workers? Reference 7.2.1.3
84                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  7.7.13. Are drains provided when floors are subject to water, moisture, flooding or when wet
  processes are used? Reference 7.2.1.4
  7.7.14. Are all floor openings, such as hatchways, chutes, pits, trap doors, manholes and
  ladderways properly guarded? Reference 7.2.1.6
  7.7.15. Are all open-sided floors, platforms and runways four (4) feet or more above the
  ground guarded on all open sides? Reference 7.2.1.7.3
  7.7.16. Are grab handles installed on each side of the opening, when the operation requires
  reaching through or around the unprotected opening? Reference 7.2.1.7.4
  7.7.17. Are frequently used loading docks located away from principal streets and
  intersections? Reference 7.2.2.1
  7.7.18. Are the surfaces of docks smooth and even, and are their edges marked? Reference
  7.2.2.1.1
  7.7.19. Are the dock widths at least two (2) feet wider than the widest vehicle or most
  common materials being transported? Reference 7.2.2.1.2
  7.7.20. Do parking lots have a smooth surface, good drainage and are they free of pedestrian
  tripping hazards? Reference 7.2.2.2
  7.7.21. Are entrances and exits free of obstructions that block a driver‘s or pedestrian‘s view
  of traffic? Reference 7.2.2.2
  7.7.22. Are exterior walkways kept clear of obstacles that block the right-of-way or present
  slipping and tripping hazards? Reference 7.2.2.3
  7.7.23. Do workers ensure materials are not stored, left under or piled against buildings,
  doors, exits or stairways? Reference 7.2.2.4.1
  7.7.24. Are poisonous or toxic plants prohibited for landscaping unless approved by the
  installation medical services? Reference 7.2.2.4.2
  7.7.25. Are trees and bushes adjacent to walkways trimmed to permit a clear path for
  pedestrians? Reference 7.2.2.4.2
  7.7.26. Is all construction work clearly identified by signs that can be read from at least 50
  feet, in addition to barriers marked with reflective materials? Reference 7.2.2.5
  7.7.27. Are illuminated or other warning flashers also used after dark? Reference 7.2.2.5
  7.7.28. Are fixed stairs and ramps designed and built to carry a load of 5 times the normal
  live load anticipated, but not less than a 1,000 pound moving concentrated load? Reference
  7.3.2.2
  7.7.29. Are fixed stairs (not part of the exit access) installed at angles to the horizontal of 30
  to 50 degrees? Reference 7.3.2.4
  7.7.30. Are ramps (not part of the exit access) installed IAW guidance in Table 7.2?
  Reference 7.3.2.5
  7.7.31. When the doors or gates open directly onto a stairway, is the available width of the
  landing not less than 20 inches? Reference 7.3.2.6
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         85



  7.7.32. Where there is less than seven (7) feet of headroom over stairs, are obstructions
  padded? Reference 7.3.2.7
  7.7.33. Where obstructions over stairs cannot be padded, are they color coded with yellow or
  yellow-and-black stripes to highlight the hazard? Reference 7.3.2.7
  7.7.34. Are open grating type treads used on stairs which are not enclosed? Reference
  7.3.2.10
  7.7.35. Is every flight of fixed industrial stairs with four (4) or more risers equipped with
  standard guardrails or standard handrails? Reference 7.3.2.12.1
  7.7.36. Do stairs less than 44 inches wide, having both sides enclosed, have at least one
  handrail, preferably on the right side going down? Reference 7.3.2.12.1.1
  7.7.37. Are spiraling and winding stairs equipped with a handrail offset to stop people from
  walking on the parts of the treads that are less than six (6) inches wide? Reference 7.3.2.12.2
  7.7.38. Are stairs and ramps lighted so all treads and landings are visible? Reference
  7.3.2.13
  7.7.39. Are stairs and ramps kept clean, free of obstructions or slippery substances and in
  good repair? Reference 7.3.2.15
  7.7.40. Are slippery surfaces replaced or made safe by coating them with nonslip surface
  materials? Reference 7.3.2.15.3
  7.7.41. Are guardrails and handrails smooth, free of splinters or burrs and securely mounted?
  Reference 7.3.2.15.6
  7.7.42. Are fixed industrial stairs provided as a means of access to roofs, pits, silos, towers,
  tanks and limited-access areas, where access is daily or during each shift for gauging,
  inspection, regular maintenance, etc.? Reference 7.4.2.2
  7.7.43. Is adequate illumination provided when using ladders? Reference 7.4.2.5
  7.7.44. Where unauthorized use of a fixed ladder is a problem, such as in a public area, is the
  bottom seven (7) feet guarded? Reference 7.4.2.6
  7.7.45. Are electrical conductors not installed on or adjacent to fixed metal ladders, unless
  they are beyond reach and cannot be used as a handrail or grabbed in an emergency?
  Reference 7.4.2.8
  7.7.46. Are iron rung ladders built into the walls of each manhole over 12 feet deep?
  Reference 7.4.2.9
  7.7.47. Are formal, fully documented inspections of all fixed ladders accomplished upon
  installation and at least every three (3) years thereafter? Reference 7.4.3.1
  7.7.48. Are modifications to ladder components, safety climb devices or related equipment
  approved by the installation CE, property manager and Ground Safety office? Reference
  7.4.4.2
  7.7.49. Do supervisors ensure personnel are properly trained on climbing and using ladders?
  Reference 7.4.6
86                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  7.7.50. Do workers abstain from using metal ladders and wood ladders with metal reinforced
  side rails in areas where they could contact energized electrical circuits? Reference
  7.5.2.1.2.2
  7.7.51. Do supervisors make thorough visual inspections of ladders when the ladder is
  initially received and before the ladder is placed in service? Reference 7.5.2.2
  7.7.52. Do workers perform an inspection of ladders prior to use? Reference 7.5.2.2
  7.7.53. Are hardware, fittings and related equipment checked frequently and kept in proper
  working condition? Reference 7.5.2.3
  7.7.54. Are safety feet and other parts of the unit‘s ladders kept in good working condition?
  Reference 7.5.2.3.3
  7.7.55. Are wood ladders not painted with an opaque coating, avoiding a cover-up of
  possible defects? Reference 7.5.2.3.4
  7.7.56. When location demands, are metal ladders protected against corrosion? Reference
  7.5.2.3.4
  7.7.57. Are ladders with defects which cannot be immediately repaired, removed from
  service and action taken to ensure they are scheduled for repair or destruction? Reference
  7.5.2.4
  7.7.58. Are danger tags used to warn workers that the ladder cannot be used? Reference
  7.5.2.4
  7.7.59. Are personnel who use ladders adequately trained by the supervisor in the care and
  use of different type ladders when a worker is first assigned? Reference 7.5.2.4.1
  7.7.60. Are ladders stored in a way that provides easy access for inspection and permits their
  safe withdrawal for use? Reference 7.5.2.5.1.3
  7.7.61. Are wood ladders stored in a location free from exposure to the elements and
  excessive heat or dampness? Reference 7.5.2.5.1.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         87



                                           Chapter 8

                                  ELECTRICAL SAFETY

8.1. General Information.
   8.1.1. Hazards.
       8.1.1.1. Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, and AFI 91-202, The US Air
       Force Mishap Prevention Program, for further information on the JSA and job safety
       lesson plan. Note: A JSA is not required when existing guidance adequately covers all
       safety requirements of an operation or process. Example: TO 00-25-172, Ground
       Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
       8.1.1.2. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and
       Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
   8.1.1.3. Electrical installations and equipment present a shock or electrocution hazard from
   contact with energized systems and can produce arc flash burns from electrical arcs.
   Excessive scraping, kinking, stretching and exposure to grease and oils damages power
   cables, leads to premature failure and causes shocks or burns. Fires can be caused by short
   circuits, over-heated equipment, or failure of current limiters, thermal sensors and other
   devices. Explosions may occur if flammable liquids, gases or dusts are exposed to ignition
   sources generated from electrical equipment.
8.2. Receptacles. Electrical receptacles and cover plates shall be free of cracks and securely
mounted. Receptacle covers with cracks which expose the interior of the receptacle shall be
replaced. It is not necessary to replace the cover for small cracks around the mounting screws.
Receptacles in damp or wet locations shall meet NEC requirements and be protected by ground
fault circuit interrupter(s) (GFCI). Refer to paragraph 8.9.7 for guidance on GFCIs.
   8.2.1. Multiple plug adapters shall not be linked to provide additional or more convenient
   outlets as this could overload electrical circuits. At no time shall a multiple plug adapter or
   strip be plugged into another multiple plug adapter or strip.
   8.2.2. Dwelling Unit Receptacles.
       8.2.2.1. Arc-fault Circuit Interrupters – Bedrooms. Arc-fault circuit interrupters (AFCI)
       are required to be installed on new, extended or modified branch circuits supplying 120-
       volt, single phase, 15- and 20-ampere outlets in the bedrooms of dwelling units. This
       became effective 1 January 2002.
       8.2.2.2. Arc-fault Circuit Interrupters – Whole House. AFCI of the combination-type
       shall be used on branch circuits supplying 120-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere
       outlets in those dwelling units designed and constructed after 1 January 2009 and
       supplying family rooms, dining rooms, living rooms, parlors, libraries, dens, bedrooms,
       sunrooms, recreation rooms, closets, hallways or similar rooms or areas. AFCI branch
       circuits may be, but are not required to supply the GFCI circuits specified in paragraph
       8.9.7 Refer to NEC, Article 210.12, for additional guidance.
 88                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       8.2.2.3. Ground-fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCI) are required in certain dwelling unit
       circuits as specified in paragraph 8.9.7. Refer to NEC, Article 210.8, for additional
       guidance.
       8.2.2.4. Tamper-Resistant Receptacles – Effective 1 January 2009. Tamper-resistant
       receptacles shall be used in all newly installed or replaced 15- and 20-ampere 120-volt,
       single-phase receptacle outlets in dwelling units. Refer to NEC, Article 406.11, for
       additional guidance.
   8.2.3. Child Development Centers. Electrical receptacles in Child Development Centers
   shall comply with the requirements of UFC 4-470-14, Design: Child Development Centers.
8.3. Plugs. Attachment plugs of tool and equipment cords shall be of dead front construction.
When in use, plugs shall be inserted fully so no part of the prongs is exposed. The third and/or
grounding prong is a safety feature and shall be checked frequently by personnel to ensure it is
secure, especially on items unplugged frequently. The prong shall not be cut off, nor an adapter
used to allow a three-prong plug to fit a two-prong receptacle, since this negates third wire
grounding protection. This paragraph does not apply to double insulated equipment or equipment
such as clocks, radios, can openers, etc., which are not normally manufactured with a grounding
plug. Plugs, whether molded or clamped, shall be firmly attached to the cord to prevent pulling
against wire connection points. Refer to paragraph 8.4.1.11 for guidance on use of two (2) wire
extension cords.
8.4. Flexible Cords and Extension Cords. Flexible cords and extension cords shall be used
IAW guidance outlined in the NEC. Electrical cords shall not be subjected to electrical currents
or voltages greater than their rated capacities.
   8.4.1. Extension Cords.
       8.4.1.1. Extension cords are responsible for numerous fires and their use shall be kept to
       an absolute minimum. If used, they shall have a single connection. Exception: A heavy
       duty industrial extension cord with a multiple-outlet junction box may be utilized if the
       equipment amperage/wattage rating does not exceed the extension cord/circuit which it is
       plugged into. The amperage/wattage shall be verified.
       8.4.1.2. Report, replace or dispose of worn, cracked or frayed electrical extension cords,
       loose or broken electrical wires and worn or broken electrical plugs. Supervisors shall
       inspect cords frequently for signs of fraying, cracking, wear of any damage that could be
       an indication of possible short circuiting and for proper size/rating for the equipment it
       services. Defective cords shall be removed from service. Do not use until repaired or
       replaced.
       8.4.1.3. Electrical extension cords shall be used as outlined in the NEC and not be used
       as a substitute for fixed wiring. Note: Extension cords may be used when it is
       impractical to power equipment from facility wiring, such as in large hangars, flight line
       locations, field environments and when using electrical generators.
       8.4.1.4. Do not run cords through holes in walls, ceilings, floors, doorways, windows,
       etc.
       8.4.1.5. Do not run cords where concealed behind walls, dropped ceilings or floors.
       8.4.1.6. Do not tape, staple or tack extension cords to building surfaces.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      89



     8.4.1.7. Cords shall not be spliced, taped, pinched, coiled or otherwise placed where they
     may be damaged or create a hazard.
     8.4.1.8. Electrical extension cords shall not be walked on nor equipment allowed to run
     over them. If cords must be placed in travel lanes, they shall be properly protected by
     molded housings, bridges or other covers approved for such use.
     8.4.1.9. Cords shall not be kinked, stretched or bent excessively to prevent internal wire
     damage.
     8.4.1.10. Cords shall be disconnected when not in use and at the end of the work shift.
     Exception: Low amp devices such as wall clocks, pencil sharpeners, radios, desk lamps,
     etc., do not have to be disconnected.
     8.4.1.11. Extension cords used with portable tools and equipment shall have three-prong
     plugs. Two-wire extension cords are prohibited. The extension cord capacity shall be
     equal to or greater than the amperage rating of item being powered from the cord.
     8.4.1.12. Extension cords and surge protectors shall not be series-connected, i.e., daisy
     chained or piggy-backed.
     8.4.1.13. Only junction boxes designed for exterior application shall be used in damp,
     wet or outdoor locations.
     8.4.1.14. Only commercially procured extension cords bearing the Underwriters
     Laboratory (UL) or host nation equivalent certification may be used. Extension cords
     shall be rated at 10 amps minimum above the required power draw. Extension cords may
     not be manufactured or altered.
     8.4.1.15. Do not hang over nails, rafters or in a manner that constitutes a safety or fire
     hazard.
     8.4.1.16. Do not place under rugs, carpets or other combustible material.
     8.4.1.17. Extension cords shall be kept dry and free from oil or grease.
  8.4.2. Tools and equipment connected by flexible cords shall be grounded by a three-wire
  cord or separate ground wire (except double-insulated equipment). A grommet, stress relief
  device or NEC approved clamp shall be installed on equipment housings to prevent abrasion
  of cord insulation and to prevent pull or strain put on the cord‘s internal wiring.
     8.4.2.1. Cords used with heating appliances, such as electric irons, shall be made with
     high temperature insulating materials.
  8.4.3. Users shall inspect cords frequently for signs of fraying, cracking, wearing or damage
  that could create a short-circuit. Defective electrical equipment and cords shall be removed
  from service.
  8.4.4. When possible, equipment power cords shall be suspended from overhead in rigid
  raceways.
  8.4.5. When disconnecting cords, pull on the plug rather than the cord, to avoid damaging
  internal connections.
 90                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   8.4.6. Electrical wiring/conduits shall not be used as clothing hangers or supports of any
   nature.
   8.4.7. High wattage appliances such as heat-producing appliances, refrigerators of all types,
   coffee makers, etc., shall be plugged directly into a facility outlet. Coffee makers shall be
   unplugged at the end of the work shift. Exception: Commercial coffee urns hard plumbed to
   the water service and coffee makers/machines with integral timers, i.e., Bunn-type coffee
   brewers, need not be unplugged at the end of the work day if they are in an
   occupied/observable space.
   8.4.8. Multi-receptacle surge protectors shall only be used to power computers and related
   equipment such as lights or fans. Surge protectors nor extension cords shall be used with high
   current items such as coffee makers, refrigerators, microwave ovens, heaters, food
   preparation equipment, etc. Equipment plugged into surge protectors/extension cords shall
   not exceed the capacity of the surge protector/electrical cord.
8.5. Disconnecting Means (Circuit Breakers and Disconnect Switches). Unless their purpose
is evident, circuit breakers and fuse boxes shall be specifically and legibly marked to indicate
their purpose. For example, markings should not merely indicate ―motor‖ or ―lights,‖ but ―motor,
water pump #2‖ or ―lights, front lobby.‖ Spare circuit breakers will be identified as ―spare.‖
Supervisors, in conjunction with the installation CE, shall ensure electrical fuse, switch and
circuit-breaker boxes are marked with correct voltage, current, wattage, foreign source of power
or other ratings, as appropriate. Personnel shall not stand directly in front of circuit breakers or
switches when activating or deactivating them. Refer to UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, O &
M, for additional guidance.
   8.5.1. Circuit breakers and disconnect switches shall clearly indicate status - open (off) or
   closed (on). Refer to NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, and 29 CFR 1910.304, Wiring
   Design and Protection, for additional guidance.
   8.5.2. Circuit breakers, disconnect switches and fuses shall be readily accessible to workers
   and building management personnel. Work space in front shall be clear and unimpeded and
   shall not be located where exposed to physical damage or in the vicinity of easily ignitable
   material.
   8.5.3. Circuit breakers shall not be taped in the ―on‖ position. Breakers that trip frequently
   indicate electrical problems and shall be promptly reported and corrected.
   8.5.4. Workers shall not substitute larger fuses or breakers or use bypass wires, pennies, etc.
   8.5.5. If circuit breaker fails to close or immediately trips after resetting, a qualified
   electrical worker (electrician) shall be called to troubleshoot the circuit breaker, i.e.,
   installation CE shall be called immediately.
8.6. Guarding of Live Parts. Electrical outlets, switches, junction boxes, etc., shall be in good
condition and have cover plates securely installed. Outlets, switches, cover plates, etc., shall be
free of cracks or defects that could cause them to be ineffective. Minor superficial cracks at the
installation screws that do not expose internal wires do not require replacement. All unused
openings (knock out plugs) in switch housings, junction boxes, etc., shall be securely covered.
Rigid conduit shall be securely attached to the box and flexible conduit firmly secured where the
conduit enters the box to prevent abrasion to the conduit and strain on the connecting points.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           91



8.7. Equipment Grounding.
   8.7.1. Frames of electrical motors, regardless of voltage, shall be grounded. All covers shall
   be securely fastened.
   8.7.2. Exposed noncurrent-carrying metal parts of fixed equipment that may be energized
   under abnormal conditions shall be grounded.
8.8. Restrictions. While working on or around live electrical equipment, workers are prohibited
from wearing garments with exposed metallic fasteners or flammable articles such as celluloid
cap visors. Additionally, clothing shall be of the material necessary to comply with NFPA 70E,
Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace, requirements. Articles such as jewelry, earrings,
rings, hair fasteners, bracelets, key chains or metallic ID (dog) tags with metal chains shall also
be removed and metal framed eyeglasses shall be secured by a band or cord to prevent them
from falling into energized electrical circuits or machinery. Note: It‘s best practice to wear
nonmetallic eyeglasses and neck lanyards (i.e., ID cardholders) with a breakaway band or cord to
prevent them from falling into energized electrical circuits or moving industrial machinery.
8.9. Electrical Installations and Equipment. Guidance in NFPA 70, NFPA 70E, 29 CFR
1910 Subpart S – Electrical and AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, for electrical
installations and equipment shall be complied with. Motor data plates shall be legible and not
painted.
   8.9.1. Electrical Repairs. Only authorized, qualified electricians or appliance workers may
   install or repair electrical equipment. Work on electrical equipment will be de-energized,
   locked out and tagged out IAW Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and
   Tagout), NFPA 70 and AFI 32-1064. Refer to paragraph 8.18 for work on energized
   equipment.
   8.9.2. Supervisors shall ensure work areas are inspected for electrical hazards. Sufficient
   workspace shall be provided and maintained around electric equipment to permit safe
   operation and maintenance IAW 29 CFR 1910.303(g) 600 Volts, nominal, or less; Table S-1
   or 29 CFR 1910.303(h) Over 600 Volts, nominal; Table S-2.
   8.9.3. Wires shall be enclosed in an electrically-listed box or control panel.
   8.9.4. In locations requiring the use of special tools (e.g., non-sparking), only tools certified
   for those areas shall be used.
   8.9.5. When equipment is replaced, a renovation project is planned or new construction is
   performed, make provisions to comply with lockout/tagout requirements in Chapter 21.
   8.9.6. Parts of electrical equipment which ordinarily produce arcs, sparks, etc., shall not be
   operated or used in explosive atmospheres or in close proximity to combustible materials.
   8.9.7. Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCI) shall be used on all 120-volt, single-phase,
   15-, 20-, and 30-ampere receptacle outlets at job sites where the receptacles are not part of
   the building/structure permanent wiring. Receptacles on a two-wire, single-phase portable or
   vehicle-mounted electrical generator rated not more than 5 kilowatts (kW), where electrical
   generator conductors are insulated from the generator frame and other grounded surfaces,
   shall be permitted without GFCI protection. Receptacles shall be located outside wet process
   areas or protected by a GFCI. To protect large areas, GFCI breakers shall be located in the
 92                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   circuit panel. 120-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere receptacles installed in locations
   below shall include GFCI protection. See NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, Article 210.8,
   for exceptions, i.e., for locations where GFCIs are not required.
      8.9.7.1. Dwelling Units.
          8.9.7.1.1. Bathrooms.
          8.9.7.1.2. Garages and accessory buildings with a floor located at or below grade
          level not intended as habitable rooms and limited to storage areas, work areas and
          areas of similar use.
          8.9.7.1.3. Outdoors.
          8.9.7.1.4. Crawl spaces — at or below grade level.
          8.9.7.1.5. Unfinished basements — for purposes of this section, unfinished
          basements are portions or areas not intended as habitable rooms and limited to storage
          areas, work areas, etc.
          8.9.7.1.6. Kitchens — includes receptacles installed to serve countertop surfaces.
          8.9.7.1.7. Laundry, utility and wet-bar sinks — where receptacles are installed within
          six (6) feet (1.8 meters) of the outside edge of a sink.
          8.9.7.1.8. Boathouses.
      8.9.7.2. Other than Dwelling Units.
          8.9.7.2.1. Bathrooms.
          8.9.7.2.2. Commercial and institutional kitchens — for the purposes of this section, a
          kitchen is an area with a sink and permanent facilities for food preparation and
          cooking.
          8.9.7.2.3. Rooftops.
          8.9.7.2.4. Outdoors in public spaces — for the purpose of this section, public space is
          defined as any space that is for use by, or is accessible to, the public.
          8.9.7.2.5. Outdoors, where installed for heating, air-conditioning and refrigeration
          equipment.
   8.9.8. Arc-fault Circuit Interrupters. AFCI are required in certain circuits in dwelling units.
   Refer to paragraph 8.2.2 and NEC, Article 210.12, for guidance.
   8.9.9. Electrical receptacles located within six (6) feet of any water source, e.g., sinks, water
   coolers, water fountains, etc., are required to be GFCI-protected.
8.10. Additional Electrical Equipment Requirements.
   8.10.1. Close rack/panel/control box doors at all times except as necessary to accomplish
   authorized repairs.
   8.10.2. Operators shall open and close equipment switches quickly and positively and shall
   not break contact between brushes and commutators or slip rings while equipment is
   operating.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         93



8.11. Electronic Equipment. Turn high voltage equipment off at provided switches and
disconnecting means prior to unplugging, unless authorized by applicable technical publications.
   8.11.1. Use only approved solvents to clean electronics equipment. Ensure adequate
   ventilation and wear appropriate PPE when required by applicable guidance, the installation
   Ground Safety office or BE. Vacuuming, with a vacuum approved for the task, is an effective
   cleaning method. Clean with compressed air only as a last resort and limit air pressure to less
   than 30 psi, unless a lower pressure is required by the TO, manufacturer‘s data or local
   procedures. Effective chip guarding (diffuser type nozzle discharge tip) and PPE shall be
   used.
   8.11.2. Technicians shall not use lead pencils, screwdrivers or other unapproved tools to
   make radio frequency energy tests on electronic equipment as serious burns can result from
   arcs or faults created by these conditions.
   8.11.3. Personnel shall not hold meters in their hand while performing measurements on
   energized circuits or equipment. Use non-conductive, insulated gloves or other effective PPE
   when necessary to hold meters or metering cables. The holder shall stand on a non-
   conductive mat or dry surface while using the meter. Refer to paragraph 14.5.8 for additional
   guidance.
   8.11.4. Workbenches.
       8.11.4.1. Workbenches shall be kept clean at all times.
       8.11.4.2. When voltage is applied to equipment being repaired or tested, personnel shall
       ensure tools and equipment not essential to the test are removed from the bench.
       8.11.4.3. Ground metal workbenches used for repairing and testing electronic equipment
       to a low resistance ground. Note: See TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice
       Requirements for Repair, Maintenance, and Test of Electrical Equipment, for
       electrostatic discharge control procedures.
   8.11.5. Insulating Matting Specific Requirements.
       8.11.5.1. Insulating matting shall be used near electrical apparatus or circuits in high
       voltage maintenance areas as an additional safety measure to protect personnel. It shall be
       used to protect against accidental shock only and shall not be the only means of
       protection when handling energized wires and circuits. TOs 00-25-234 and 00-25-232,
       Control and Use of Insulating Matting for High-Voltage Application, and MIL-DTL-
       15562G, Matting or Sheet, Floor Covering, Insulating for High-Voltage Applications,
       provide information and instructions on control, use and marking of insulating matting.
       Insulating matting shall be permanently marked IAW MIL-DTL-15562G.
       8.11.5.2. Supervisors shall consult with installation Ground Safety office to determine if
       insulating matting is required in their areas of responsibility. This includes areas where
       potential shock hazards exist and additional protection is needed, floor resistance is
       lowered due to dampness and where high voltage (above 600 volts) may be encountered,
       such as high voltage consoles. Areas with electrical repair or test benches (shops), motors
       or equipment and control panels require insulating matting.
 94                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       8.11.5.3. Mats shall be cleaned as necessary to prevent contamination, using domestic
       cleaners, such as carpet cleaners, or other locally approved cleaners required for special
       situations.
       8.11.5.4. Insulating matting shall be replaced when worn to one-half its original
       thickness or the manufacturer‘s recommended replacement requirements. Note: Shoes
       with nails, spikes or cleats shall not be worn on insulating matting. Penetration of spikes
       or cleats to the floor can make the matting ineffective.
       8.11.5.5. Insulating matting in front of and around electrical workbenches, high voltage
       cabinets, switch panels, etc., shall be one continuous length or strip. Where possible,
       matting shall continue 24 inches beyond the end of the equipment. Overlapping at corners
       is not required if it produces a tripping hazard. If more than one run or strip of matting is
       required, the activity supervisor shall determine the amount needed.
       8.11.5.6. Insulating matting shall be seamless. Mat markings shall be non-conducting
       and not impair the insulating qualities of the mat.
       8.11.5.7. Matting shall withstand the AC proof-test voltage specified in Table 14.1 or
       DC proof-test voltage specified in Table 14.3
       8.11.5.8. The voltage test shall be applied continuously for one minute on matting and
       three minutes on equipment other than matting.
       8.11.5.9. Insulating matting shall not be used for nonskid applications such as walkways,
       hall runners, in front of work benches (non-electric) on work-and-test benches, etc.
       General purpose low-cost matting shall be used as it is, and is satisfactory for areas were
       shock protection is not required. No certification for use of general purpose matting is
       required.
   8.11.6. Use stools made of wood, fiberglass or other non-conductive materials when
   working on electrical or electronic equipment.
   8.11.7. Supervisors shall establish procedures requiring all accessories used with electronic
   and electrical equipment be serviceable and safe for use. Supervisors shall also establish
   procedures to eliminate or control all hazard potentials to a safe acceptable level.
8.12. Emergency Equipment (Electrical Safety). In addition to electrical PPE provided to
workers, functional managers shall ensure emergency equipment is available at each operating
location where maintenance is performed on energized circuits. Equipment variations depend on
local conditions and the squadron commander or functional manager may add additional items.
The equipment may be displayed on a board, stored in an unlocked cabinet or made available in
a portable kit, and shall be situated in a conspicuous and prominent location at each site, well
marked and readily accessible. Equipment shall be protected against chemical, mechanical or
environmental deterioration and shall be inspected or tested for serviceability. Emergency
equipment shall consist of:
   8.12.1. Safety operating instructions (OI) or procedures for the site.
   8.12.2. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) instructions.
   8.12.3. CPR facemask with disposable mouthpiece.
   8.12.4. Emergency phone numbers and building number.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                            95



   8.12.5. First aid kit provided by the unit. This item is required for work more than three to
   four minutes from nearest medical facility. Installation medical treatment facility (MTF) can
   provide recommendations on contents of the first aid kit. Note 1: IAW OSHA‘s letter of
   interpretation for paragraph 1910.151(b) explains that a first aid kit is required if a medical
   facility is more than three to four minutes away. Note 2: On installations with medical
   clinics that operate on limited hours and medical treatment is rapidly available from FES
   Flight‘s emergency medical teams (EMTs), the FES Flight‘s EMTs shall be contacted.
   8.12.6. Disposable gloves, impervious to body fluids, for first aid use.
   8.12.7. Nonconductive cane or hook with insulated handle (with less than 180 degrees of
   bend).
   8.12.8. High voltage insulated lineman‘s rubber electrical gloves (both inner and outer
   gloves) – if rescuer(s) is(are) likely to contact live wires, conductors or current carrying parts
   while performing rescue. Voltage rating shall be suitable for voltages encountered in the
   work area. Note 1: Electrical gloves shall be checked before use IAW UFC 3-560-01,
   Electrical Safety, O & M, and American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) F 496-85,
   Specification for In-service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves, and shall be tested and
   marked with the next test due date. Note 2: High voltage is defined as 600 volts, nominal, or
   more.
   8.12.9. A 15-foot length of natural fiber rope, preferably 1/2 or 5/8 inch diameter. Note:
   Synthetic rope may melt or burn quickly when exposed to an electric arc, heat or flame.
   8.12.10. Insulated fuse pullers, where required.
   8.12.11. Flashlight with nonmetallic case in operating condition.
   8.12.12. Grounding stick (shorting stick).
   8.12.13. Wool blanket(s), for extinguishing clothing fires and keeping injured person warm.
   8.12.14. Appropriate portable emergency signs constructed of nonconductive materials, such
   as AF Visual Aids (AFVA) 91-303, DANGER—DO NOT ENERGIZE—PERSON WORKING
   ON ANTENNA; (AFVA) 91-304, DANGER—DO NOT ENERGIZE—WORK IN PROGRESS
   ON EQUIPMENT; (AFVA) 91-305, DANGER—INTERLOCKS DISABLED; and (AFVA)
   91-306, DANGER—HIGH VOLTAGE, are available through Air Force Publications web site
   at http://www.epublishing.af.mil. Refer to Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags,
   for information on safety signs and tags.
   8.12.15. Optional site-specific items (rescue breather; insulated lineman‘s gloves, etc). Note:
   Protect electrostatic sensitive components and equipment IAW TO 00-25-234, General Shop
   Practice Requirements for Repair, Maintenance, and Test of Electrical Equipment.
8.13. Automated External Defibrillator (AED). An AED, approved by the installation
medical services and training for proper use, may be required if work is remote from medical
facility.
8.14. Lighting. Consult installation CE facility design office for specific guidance on lighting.
Fluorescent lamps contain toxic materials and shall be managed IAW installation disposal
criteria for hazardous waste. When fluorescent fixtures are used, supervisors shall ensure that
 96                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


any stroboscopic effect with moving machinery is avoided. Control of light is important to avoid
glare and harsh shadows. Soft shadows are usually acceptable, but harsh shadows shall be
avoided since they may obscure hazards or interfere with visibility. Supplementary lighting or
additional lighting shall be provided where general lighting is not sufficient.
8.15. Moisture Guarding. Weatherproof electrical systems shall be installed where fixtures,
lampholders or receptacles are used in wet or damp locations, such as perishable storage areas
(includes all refrigerated areas, both storage and food processing). Fixtures subject to moisture,
such as those located near steam equipment, shall be of vapor-proof construction to prevent
electrical shock or short circuits. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.305, Wiring Methods, Components, and
Equipment for General Use, for additional guidance.
8.16. Undervoltage Protection. Machines not adequately safeguarded to protect workers
during undervoltage situations shall have an undervoltage protective device installed.
Undervoltage situations occur when a machine automatically resumes motion after a low voltage
situation or power interruption and the operator is exposed to hazardous moving parts. The
installation Ground Safety office and shop supervisors shall identify machines which need this
protection and ensure undervoltage protection devices are installed. Refer to Chapter 18,
Machinery, and 29 CFR 1910.213, Woodworking Machinery Requirements, for additional
guidance.
8.17. Control Switches. Control switches (on and off) shall be accessible to workers at their
normal operating positions to prevent reaching over moving parts to activate the switch. Control
switches stop functions shall be identified by the printed word ―STOP‖ and/or the color red.
Control switches shall clearly indicate whether they are in the open (off) or closed (on) position.
Where these switch or circuit breaker handles are operated vertically rather than rotationally or
horizontally, the up position of the handle shall be the closed (on) position. Exception:
Vertically operated double-throw switches shall be permitted to be in the closed (on) position
with the handle in either the up or down position.
   8.17.1. Positive pressure switches shall not be wedged for continuous operation. Motor
   ―start‖ switch shall be protected against accidental and/or inadvertent operation. Electrical
   controls shall not be blocked or otherwise obstructed. Refer to Chapter 18 for additional
   information.
   8.17.2. Interlocks shall not be disconnected or bypassed. Interlocks can be disconnected
   during maintenance or adjustments only when prescribed by applicable TOs or other
   instructions. During these periods, a sign or AFVA 91-305, DANGER — INTERLOCKS
   DISABLED, or nearest commercial equivalent, shall be placed on the equipment or nearest
   available equipment. Interlocks installed for safety reasons shall not be circumvented by
   operators, i.e., an interlock that prevents a machine from operating when a protective guard
   or panel is removed or opened.
8.18. Work on Energized Equipment.
   8.18.1. Electrical circuits and equipment shall be de-energized before being worked on.
   When authorized by the commander, applicable technical data or manufacturer‘s instructions,
   work may be performed on energized circuits and equipment as necessary to support a
   critical mission, prevent injury to personnel or to protect property. In such cases, refer to AFI
   32-1064, paragraph 5, and UFC 3-560-01, paragraph 3-3, for task specific required number
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       97



  of qualified workers. Depending on the task, one member of the two or three person team
  shall act as safety observer. All workers shall be trained in CPR and equipment shutdown
  procedures and responsible for immediate assistance in an emergency. Install electrical
  equipment IAW guidance contained in NFPA 70, UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, O&M,
  and AFI 32-1064. Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout),
  for additional information on lockout/tagout procedures. Note: Supervisor may be safety
  observer.
  8.18.2. Additional PPE for Work on or Near Energized Equipment. Refer to NFPA 70E,
  Sections 130.3. and 130.7., and UFC 3-560-01, Table 4.1., PPE Criteria, for additional
  guidance.
     8.18.2.1. A rubber insulating blanket or other suitable guards shall be used when
     necessary to work adjacent to energized circuits.
     8.18.2.2. Clothing made from synthetics, such as acetate, nylon, polyester or rayon,
     either alone or in blends, is unsafe for work on or near energized electrical circuits or
     equipment over 50 volts. Synthetics can melt when exposed to electric arcs or open
     flames and increase the extent of injuries.
     8.18.2.3. A flash hazard analysis (FHA) shall be performed for all Air Force operations
     exposing personnel to energized parts greater than 50 volts. Protective clothing required,
     if any, shall be based on the FHA performed. Procedures outlined in UFC 3-560-01 and
     AFI 32-1064 shall be followed.
     8.18.2.4. Individuals required to work on or near (within 8 feet of) exposed energized
     equipment over 50 volts shall wear long sleeved, Arc Thermal Performance Value
     (ATPV) rated PPE IAW UFC 3-560-01. Long sleeves/outer garments shall be rolled
     down and buttoned or secured.
     8.18.2.5. Individuals operating or servicing electrical switch-gear over 15 kV shall wear
     an appropriately ATPV-rated blast suit with hood and polycarbonate face shield.
     Individuals located 8 to 21 feet from the equipment during these operations shall wear
     ATPV rated flash suits or be adequately protected by a substantial part of the building
     structure (wall, floor or ceiling, etc.). Sheet metal and gypsum building materials do not
     provide the required minimum level of blast protection.
     8.18.2.6. Clothing shall be free of metal decorations and fasteners or completely and
     effectively covered to avoid being exposed to electric arc or flames.
     8.18.2.7. Plant maintenance workers shall wear electric hazard (EH) rated safety-toe
     shoes and other PPE, such as safety goggles, hard hat and gloves, based on the specific
     tasks involved. Personnel shall remove jewelry before working on machinery. Metal
     eyeglasses shall be secured by a non-metallic band or cord to prevent them from falling
     into energized electrical circuits. Consult BE and the installation Ground Safety office on
     questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional information.
     8.18.2.8. Any tools, e.g., hot sticks, insulating rubber sleeves, used as part of the task
     must be rated and tested/certified for the line-to-line voltage of the energized equipment.
     Refer to ETL 06-9, Arc Flash Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for High-Voltage
 98                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       Overhead Line Work at 69kV (Nominal) or Less and UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety
       O&M.
       8.18.2.9. For additional guidance on working on energized equipment, refer to UFC 3-
       560-01, and AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices.
   8.18.3. Work Near Energized Equipment. Refer to UFC 3-560-01 and AFI 32-1064,
   paragraph 4, for additional guidance on working near energized equipment.
       8.18.3.1. Appropriate danger, warning or caution tags shall be used as a temporary
       means of warning employees of an existing hazard and shall not be used in place of, or as
       a substitute for safety, fire prevention and occupational health signs. Refer to Chapter
       21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention
       Signs and Tags, AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, and UFC 3-560-01, for
       additional guidance.
       8.18.3.2. In passing by or near any switchboard, energized equipment or a machine in
       motion, personnel shall use caution to prevent contact between their bodies or objects
       being carried or handled, and the apparatus being passed.
       8.18.3.3. Air-operated equipment, either pressure or vacuum, used around energized
       parts shall be equipped with nonconductive nozzles and pressurized air shall be moisture
       free. Refer to paragraph 8.11.1 for additional guidance.
8.19. Electrical Safety Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in
this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements
exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local
safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual
location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   8.19.1. Are electrical receptacles and cover plates free from dangerous cracks and secured in
   place? Reference 8.2
   8.19.2. Are receptacles located in damp or wet locations protected by GFCI breakers or
   receptacles? Reference 8.2
   8.19.3. Is the prohibition of multiple plug adapters enforced to prevent overloading electrical
   circuits? Reference 8.2.1
   8.19.4. Are cords that show signs of fraying, cracking, wearing or damage removed from
   service? Reference 8.4.1.2
   8.19.5. Are electrical extension cords used as outlined in the NEC and not used as a
   substitute for fixed wiring? Reference 8.4.1.3
   8.19.6. Are electrical extension cords not run through holes in ceilings, walls, floors,
   doorways, windows or similar openings? Reference 8.4.1.4
   8.19.7. Unless their purpose is evident, are circuit breakers and fuse boxes legibly marked to
   indicate their purpose? Reference 8.5
   8.19.8. Are circuit breakers, disconnect switches and fuses located so that they are not
   exposed to physical damage or in the vicinity of easily ignitable material? Reference 8.5.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     99



  8.19.9. Are electrical outlets, switches and junction boxes in good condition and free of
  defects? Reference 8.6
  8.19.10. Do workers remove jewelry, such as rings, earrings, bracelets and watches, and
  secure metal framed eyeglasses with a band or cord when they work on or near live electrical
  equipment? Reference 8.8
  8.19.11. Do workers ensure electrical circuits are de-energized, and locked out and tagged
  IAW Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), prior to performing
  repairs on energized electrical equipment? Reference 8.9.1
  8.19.12. Are only qualified operators who are designated in writing by the supervisor
  allowed to work on electrical installations and equipment? Reference 8.9.2
  8.19.13. Are electrical receptacles located within six (6) feet of any water source equipped
  with a GFCI? Reference 8.9.9
  8.19.14. Are machines safeguarded to protect workers during undervoltage situations in the
  event of a power interruption? Reference 8.16
  8.19.15. Are equipment interlocks working properly and not disconnected or bypassed by
  operators? Reference 8.17.2
  8.19.16. Is equipment de-energized where possible before personnel perform any
  maintenance actions? Reference 8.18.1
  8.19.17. Is a safety observer present when working on energized electrical circuits and
  equipment IAW AFI 32-1064 and UFC 3-560-01? Reference 8.18.1
  8.19.18. Are rubber insulating blankets or other suitable PPE and guards used when working
  adjacent to energized circuits? Reference 8.18.2.1
  8.19.19. Do personnel working on energized equipment over 50 volts wear long sleeved,
  ATPV-rated clothing containing no synthetic fibers? Reference 8.18.2.4
  8.19.20. Do personnel who operate or service electrical switch-gear of voltage greater than
  15 kV wear an appropriately ATPV-rated blast suit with hood and polycarbonate face shield?
  Reference 8.18.2.5
  8.19.21. When air-operated equipment, either pressure or vacuum, is used around energized
  parts, is the equipment nozzle made of non-conductive material and any pressurized air
  moisture free? Reference 8.18.3.3
 100                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 9

                                          JEWELRY

9.1. Finger Rings.
   9.1.1. Recent mishap statistics reveal that finger injuries associated with rings are among the
   most frequent lost-time permanent partial injuries, with ring fingers catching on some object
   the most frequent cause. Because of the potential for serious injury, finger rings shall not be
   worn by personnel engaged in the following activities identified below. Note: This
   restriction applies to personnel actually performing these tasks on an infrequent basis. It is
   not intended to apply to administrative and support personnel assigned to or visiting these
   areas. However, personnel should comply with established and posted installation or unit
   safety precautions to prevent personal injury.
       9.1.1.1. Climbing, ascending or descending activities where personnel could fall or jump
       from elevated surfaces account for the majority of injuries caused by a finger ring
       catching on an object. Some examples include personnel working on elevated surfaces,
       e.g., ladders, scaffolds, platforms, roofs or high reach vehicles, or personnel ascending or
       descending from large vehicles such as refuelers, wreckers, sweepers, dump trucks and
       stake bed trucks. The stake bed truck has been associated with a large number of injuries
       caused by personnel jumping or descending from the bed of this type vehicle.
       9.1.1.2. Materials handling operations. Examples include warehousing, parts handling,
       operating equipment, packing and crating, and attaching and detaching equipment to tow
       vehicles.
       9.1.1.3. Any type of work where individuals are exposed to moving machinery, rotating
       or revolving parts, or activities that could result in their hands being caught by a moving
       part and injured; for example, machine or equipment operators or inspectors.
       9.1.1.4. Any type of work or inspection where an individual is exposed to an energized
       electrical circuit.
       9.1.1.5. Performing maintenance or inspections on aircraft or ground support equipment,
       including civil engineering-type or transportation-type maintenance.
   9.1.2. It is not possible to list each situation or task where wearing of rings pose a high
   potential for injury. Supervisors shall conduct a JSA to identify tasks where the wearing of
   finger rings should be restricted. Once tasks are identified, the supervisor shall include this
   information as part of the initial employee safety briefing required by AFI 91-202, The US
   Air Force Mishap Prevention Program. In some instances, the supervisor may elect to
   determine personnel shall not wear rings while engaged in work activities in general, instead
   of identifying individual tasks. Refer to paragraph 1.5 of this instruction, AFI 91-202, the
   NSC Accident Prevention Manual for Industrial Operations (Administration and Programs),
   and the NSC Supervisors’ Safety Manual for guidance on performing a JSA. Contact the
   installation Ground Safety office if further assistance is required. Warning: Placing tape
   over rings or wearing gloves on the hand with a ring does not provide protection or eliminate
   the requirement to remove finger rings.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         101



9.2. Other Jewelry. Jewelry that presents a potential for catching, snagging, pulling or tearing
shall be evaluated and restricted from wear if it presents a hazard to the worker or operation.
Some types of jewelry that shall be evaluated and controlled are watches, bracelets and
necklaces. Metal eyeglasses shall be secured by a band or cord to prevent them from falling into
energized electrical circuits or moving industrial machinery. Whenever possible, these types of
jewelry shall be removed before entering industrial work areas. Note: It‘s best practice to wear
nonmetallic eyeglasses with a breakaway band or cord to prevent them from falling into
energized electrical circuits or moving industrial machinery.
9.3. Jewelry in Industrial Areas. Workers shall not wear rings, earrings, bracelets,
wristwatches or necklaces in the vicinity of operating machinery and power tools. While working
on or around live electrical equipment or high temperature equipment, highly combustible
garments, garments with exposed metallic fasteners or metal articles such as jewelry, earrings,
rings, hair fasteners, bracelets or key chains shall not be worn, nor will flammable articles such
as celluloid cap visors be worn. Metal eyeglasses shall be secured by a non-metallic band or cord
to prevent them from falling into energized electrical circuits.
9.4. Jewelry Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this
instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist
that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety
staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual location or
shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   9.4.1. Do workers remove rings when they perform activities that involve climbing,
   ascending or descending, or where they could fall or jump from an elevated surface?
   Reference 9.1.1.1
   9.4.2. Do workers remove rings when performing materials handling activities? Reference
   9.1.1.2
   9.4.3. Do workers remove rings when performing work that exposes them to moving
   machinery, rotating or revolving parts? Reference 9.1.1.3
   9.4.4. Do workers remove rings when performing work that exposes them to energized
   electrical circuits? Reference 9.1.1.4
   9.4.5. Is any jewelry that presents a potential for snagging, catching, pulling, tearing or loss
   evaluated and restricted if it presents a hazard to the worker or operation? Reference 9.2
 102                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                             Chapter 10

                                      OFFICE SAFETY

10.1. General Information.
   10.1.1. Hazards:
       10.1.1.1. Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, and AFI 91-202, The US Air
       Force Mishap Prevention Program, for further information on the JSA and job safety
       lesson plan. Note: A JSA is not required when existing guidance adequately covers all
       safety requirements of an operation or process. Example: TO 00-25-172, Ground
       Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
       10.1.1.2. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and
       Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance. Contact BE
       for consultative services regarding potential ergonomic concerns.
       10.1.1.3. While many mishaps occur in industrial environments, workers performing
       clerical, administrative, professional and other office tasks experience mishaps and
       injuries like their industrial counterparts. Office mishaps can be as costly as industrial
       mishaps. Even minor office mishaps can result in lost workdays. Sound supervision is the
       key to a successful office safety program.
       10.1.1.4. Office Hazards. Falls are the greatest office hazard. People fall from chairs
       when sitting down, getting up or moving about, tilting back or placing their feet up on a
       desk. Falls on the same level occur when people slip on wet floors or trip over equipment,
       cords or litter. Falls from elevations include people standing on chairs or other furniture,
       falls from ladders or on stairs.
       10.1.1.5. Mishaps occur when people overexert themselves trying to relocate bulky,
       unwieldy or heavy objects. Workers may be struck by falling objects or file drawers
       pulled out too far. Workers also bump into doors, desks, cabinets or open file drawers, or
       get their fingers, hair, etc., caught in machinery. Paper, box cutters or scissors may cause
       cuts. Cumulative trauma may occur from constant reaching, stretching, twisting, bending
       down and straightening up. Other mishaps include foreign substances in the eyes and
       injuries from electric shocks and burns.
10.2. Basic Office Safety Procedures. Don‘t assume an experienced worker is always the
safest worker. Many office mishaps occur from worker inattention, haste, not using proper
equipment and not reporting unsafe conditions. New employees often learn work habits by
observing coworkers; therefore, poor and unsafe work habits must be eliminated.
   10.2.1. Horseplay. Horseplay shall not be tolerated. Although harm is not intended when
   workers ―fool around,‖ severe injuries and even fatalities may result from horseplay.
   10.2.2. Slip, Trip and Fall Prevention.
       10.2.2.1. Keep floors clean, dry and free of refuse. Clean up spills promptly. Slip-
       resistant floor wax is recommended. Keep aisles, exits and doorways clear at all times.
       Place telephone and electrical cords where they do not pose tripping hazards. If
       placement in foot-traffic areas is unavoidable, cords and cables shall be properly
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           103



       protected by molded housings, bridges or other covers approved for such use to prevent
       tripping. Briefcases, wastebaskets, etc., shall be placed under desks, against a wall or
       otherwise out of the way. Refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and
       Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, for additional
       information on walking surfaces, and Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, for additional
       information on electrical safety.
       10.2.2.2. Install anti-slip material on stair treads or other areas to prevent personnel from
       slipping. Repair or replace stair and floor defects, such as loose tiles, broken steps, torn
       carpeting, loose or curled mats, worn, frayed or damaged anti-slip material on stairs or
       inadequate lighting.
       10.2.2.3. Keep steps and stairways clear at all times. Wipe-up spilled liquids
       immediately.
       10.2.2.4. Use step stools or ladders to access anything above shoulder level. Furniture,
       cardboard boxes, trash bins and chairs are not ladder substitutes. Refer to Chapter 7
       before using ladders.
           10.2.2.4.1. Do not position a step stool or ladder in front of a door if the door can
           swing and contact the stool, ladder or individual using it. Station a guard at the door if
           a step stool or ladder must be placed in a doorway.
       10.2.2.5. Outside Areas. Keep parking lots clean, remove debris, have potholes filled and
       uneven surfaces corrected. In colder climates, ensure control of snow and ice
       accumulations.
10.3. Office Ergonomics. Ergonomics attempt to fit the job to the person, rather than forcing
the person to fit the job. Adapting the job to the worker helps reduce stress and eliminates many
potential injuries and disorders from overuse of muscles, poor posture and repetitive motion.
Refer to OSHA website http://www.osha.gov/SLTC/ergonomics/ for additional guidance.
Contact the installation BE for questions relating to ergonomics or to have an ergonomic
assessment completed.
   10.3.1. Adjust and position office equipment for good body posture and minimum stress.
   10.3.2. To help prevent ergonomic-related problems workers shall:
       10.3.2.1. Periodically relax arms by letting them hang down.
       10.3.2.2. Keep shoulders relaxed, neck straight and elbows in.
       10.3.2.3. Avoid slumped sitting, rounded shoulders, sway back or an overly straight, stiff
       position.
       10.3.2.4. Adjust chair height so feet rest flat on the floor with knees the same height as
       hips. Adjust the chair to where work is at a comfortable height. If this is not feasible due
       to desk height, consider using a footrest.
       10.3.2.5. Sit close to their work and not bend over it.
 104                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       10.3.2.6. Locate commonly used items within arm‘s reach. Elbows should rest at the side
       of the chest and wrists should be in a neutral position (not fixed or extended) with
       forearms parallel to the floor.
       10.3.2.7. Use a telephone shoulder rest or headset to prevent an awkward neck position
       and switch sides periodically.
   10.3.3. The functional manager or supervisor shall refer military and government civilian
   workers with possible work related ergonomic illnesses/injuries to the installation clinic.
   Ergonomic injuries shall also be reported to the installation Ground Safety office.
10.4. Lifting Requirements. Procedures in Chapter 4, Manual Material Handling and Lifting
Techniques, shall be used when personnel lift heavy objects, such as files, books, paper, etc.
Team lifting shall be evaluated when items are known to weigh more than 25 pounds or when
lifting awkward objects. Use a dolly or other material handling equipment, if available, to move
heavy or awkward objects. Refer to Chapter 4 prior to using material handling equipment, as
required.
10.5. General Office Equipment.
   10.5.1. Return paper cutter blades to the fully-down and locked position when not in use.
   Keep fingers away from paper cutter blade during use. Immediately repair loose guards or
   springs.
   10.5.2. Use the proper tool for the job, i.e., a screwdriver to turn a screw, not scissors or a
   knife.
   10.5.3. Do not store heavy objects on tops or edges of tall cabinets, bookshelves or desks
   where they may fall.
   10.5.4. Chairs.
       10.5.4.1. Inspect chairs regularly for broken casters or other defects. Note: Five (5) or
       more legged caster chairs are more stable and ergonomically sound than four (4) legged
       caster chairs. New or replacement caster chairs shall have at least five (5) legs.
       10.5.4.2. Do not stand on a chair to change a light bulb, retrieve overhead items or when
       a ladder or stepstool is needed. Use the appropriate equipment and not a chair.
       10.5.4.3. Do not tilt back, lean sideways or reach behind to lift objects while seated in a
       chair.
   10.5.5. File Cabinets.
       10.5.5.1. Store heavy material in bottom drawers and load cabinets from the bottom up.
       10.5.5.2. To prevent bumping and tripping, close drawers when not in use.
       10.5.5.3. Open only one drawer at a time to avoid tipping the cabinet over. Note: New
       file cabinets shall have a locking feature to prevent opening more than one drawer at a
       time.
       10.5.5.4. Do not climb on open file drawers.
   10.5.6. Bookcases. Store heaviest books on lower-level shelves.
   10.5.7. Electrical Equipment.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      105



     10.5.7.1. Electrical extension cords. See paragraph 8.4.
     10.5.7.2. Power strips (portable power taps or surge protectors) shall not be connected in
     series. Refer to paragraph 37.2.8 for additional guidance.
     10.5.7.3. Heating appliances, such as toasters, toaster ovens and coffee makers shall be
     plugged directly into a hard-wired facility outlet and shall be unplugged at the end of the
     work shift. Additionally, coffee makers in the workplace shall have an auto-shutoff
     device or the unit shall be unplugged from the electrical source when left unattended.
     Note: Coffee makers/machines with integral timers need not be unplugged.
     10.5.7.4. Ensure electrical equipment is properly grounded to avoid electric shock.
     10.5.7.5. Do not place liquids on or near electrical equipment, i.e., radios, copiers or
     microwave ovens. Note: Supervisors may allow liquids around office equipment IAW
     paragraph 37.2.2.
     10.5.7.6. Keep access to fuse or circuit breaker boxes or electrical controls clear and
     unobstructed. Refer to paragraph 8.5 for additional guidance on fuse and circuit breakers
     in the office area.
     10.5.7.7. Keep electrical panel doors closed to prevent ―electrical flashover‖ if a
     malfunction occurs.
     10.5.7.8. Only qualified workers, using approved materials, shall install or repair
     electrical equipment. Work shall be performed IAW NFPA 70, National Electrical
     Code. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, for additional information.
  10.5.8. Other Office Machines. Refer to Chapter 37, Office/Shop Computer and Automatic
  Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) and Facilities, for office computer guidance.
     10.5.8.1. Ensure electrical power cords and installation wiring meet requirements in
     Chapter 8.
     10.5.8.2. Machines with exposed moving parts shall be appropriately guarded IAW
     manufacturer‘s specifications (at a minimum).
     10.5.8.3. Only properly trained workers shall operate machinery.
     10.5.8.4. Consider installing sound absorbent covers when using noisy machines.
     Consult BE to conduct noise surveys and recommend PPE, as required.
     10.5.8.5. Do not position office equipment where it can slip off the edge of a table or
     desk. Equipment that ―creeps‖ shall be secured or placed on a non-slip pad.
     10.5.8.6. Office fans shall be guarded, front and back, to prevent contact with rotating
     blades.
     10.5.8.7. High amperage appliances such as refrigerators and coffee makers shall not be
     plugged into modular office furniture unless the furniture electrical system is rated and
     certified by CE for general appliance use. Modular office furniture electrical systems are
     normally designed only to provide power to office equipment, i.e., personal computers,
     monitors, printers, etc.
 106                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


10.6. Working with Video Display Terminals (VDT). A Video Display Terminal (VDT) may
require a worker to sit for long periods with only small movements of the eyes, head, arms and
fingers. A fixed posture for long periods can cause muscle fatigue and, eventually, muscle pain
and injury. VDT operators may develop various musculoskeletal disorders such as carpal tunnel
syndrome and tendonitis.
   10.6.1. Fatigue, eye strain and irritation, blurred vision, headaches, stress, and neck, back,
   arm, and muscle pain are symptoms of problems with the equipment, work stations, office
   environment or job design, or a combination of these. Workers shall report symptoms to their
   supervisor, who will notify the installation medical clinic (Occupational Medicine or Flight
   Medicine, if available). Corrective action includes:
       10.6.1.1. Take a rest break each hour to reduce eye fatigue (eyestrain) when working at a
       VDT. Change focus by glancing across the room or out a window (at objects at least 20
       feet away) from time to time giving eye muscles a chance to relax.
       10.6.1.2. Arrange workstations to eliminate glare. Lighting shall allow the operator to
       see the text and the screen, but not be bright enough to cause glare or discomfort. Office
       lighting requires control of four factors: quantity, contrast, and direct and reflected glare.
       Normally, a VDT should be placed at a 90 degree angle to a light source. Refer to OSHA
       3092, Working Safely with Video Display Terminals, VDT Checklist, for lighting and
       workstation suggestions. Avoid glare by:
          10.6.1.2.1. Installing blinds, louvers or awnings over windows.
          10.6.1.2.2. Turning the VDT at a right angle to a window.
          10.6.1.2.3. Eliminating reflective surfaces near the VDT.
          10.6.1.2.4. Installing glare screens on monitors.
          10.6.1.2.5. Using smaller task lights instead of overhead lighting.
       10.6.1.3. Worker vision examinations may provide solutions to eye and neck strain.
       Employees with poor visual acuity may benefit from use of computer glasses, e.g.,
       glasses with a focal length set to the distance from their eye to the computer monitor.
       10.6.1.4. Modifications to make computer workstations more comfortable include:
          10.6.1.4.1. Monitor stands to place monitor at correct height for comfortable
          viewing.
          10.6.1.4.2. A copyholder to position hard copy at the same distance and plane as the
          monitor.
          10.6.1.4.3. Adjusting chair or table height to the correct height in relation to the
          keyboard.
          10.6.1.4.4. An articulating keyboard arm to adjust the keyboard to the correct height
          for keying.
          10.6.1.4.5. A wrist or forearm rest to minimize wrist extension and stress.
          10.6.1.4.6. A lumbar pillow, if the chair does not support the back properly.
          10.6.1.4.7. A footrest to provide leg support if not fully supported on the floor.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        107



       10.6.1.5. If possible, design jobs so the worker can vary VDT tasks with non-VDT tasks.
10.7. Elevators.
   10.7.1. Elevators shall stop level with the floor when the doors open to prevent a tripping
   hazard. Report elevator malfunctions for immediate repair.
   10.7.2. Employees shall not try to stop elevators by placing a hand or foot in closing doors.
   10.7.3. Employees shall not use elevators during emergency evacuation.
   10.7.4. Elevators shall be inspected annually by a certified inspector. Elevator certification
   shall be posted in the cab of the elevator in view of all passengers. Where vandalism is a
   problem, the elevator certification may be retained by the building manager and a permanent
   sign posted in the cab that identifies the location of the elevator certification.
10.8. Storage.
   10.8.1. Use a suitable ladder or platform to reach objects stored overhead.
   10.8.2. Store materials in an orderly fashion. Stack materials in a stable and logical order to
   prevent collapsing or falling. Put the heaviest and largest items on the bottom of the stack.
   10.8.3. Items that could present hazards, such as knives or razors, shall not be left
   unprotected in desk drawers, storage cabinets, on top of counters or desktops.
   10.8.4. Storing flammable and combustible substances.
       10.8.4.1. Storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall be prohibited in office
       occupancies except when required for maintenance and operation of buildings and
       equipment. Such storage shall be in approved self-closing metal containers stored in a
       flammable storage cabinet, safety cans or inside a storage room not having a door that
       opens into a portion of the building used by personnel. Refer to NFPA 30, Flammable
       and Combustible Liquids Code, and paragraph 22.5.3.3 for additional guidance.
       10.8.4.2. Electrical grounding or bonding of a flammable storage cabinet is not required.
       Refer to paragraph 8.19 for additional guidance.
       10.8.4.3. Rags or cloths with flammable or combustible residues shall be placed in
       approved self-closing metal waste containers immediately after use. IAW AFPAM 32-
       7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, and OSHA 29 CFR 1910.107(g) (3),
       container contents shall be disposed of at the end of each shift, at least once daily.
       Contact the installation environmental management office for disposal guidance. Note:
       Flammable and combustible wastes may be stored in vapor tight containers if required by
       installation environmental management office.
       10.8.4.4. Follow appropriate precautions, including use of PPE, when handling
       flammable or caustic liquids to prevent injury to eyes or skin.
10.9. Lighting. Consult the local CE facility design section when specific guidance on lighting
is required. Fluorescent light bulbs contain toxic materials and shall be managed IAW local
hazardous waste disposal criteria. Supervisors shall ensure any stroboscopic effect with moving
machinery is avoided when using fluorescent lighting fixtures. Work area lighting shall avoid
glare and harsh shadows. While soft shadows are usually acceptable, harsh shadows may obscure
 108                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


hazards or interfere with visibility and shall be avoided. Supplementary or additional lighting
shall be provided where general lighting is not sufficient.
10.10. Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC). Facility managers shall ensure:
   10.10.1. IAW ANSI/ASHRAE 62.1-2010, Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality,
   office HVAC systems shall be inspected as needed. A recommended interval is distinct to
   individual models (at least semiannually or annually is suggested), to prevent the buildup of
   dust, mold and/or parasites. Filters shall be changed as needed. Do not cover air vents or
   obstruct air flow from registers. Do not place furniture, equipment or materials where they
   interfere with air movement or thermostats.
   10.10.2. Temperatures of 68 to 78 degrees F for a comfortable office environment.
   Whenever possible, workers shall be located away from vents to avoid direct contact with hot
   or cold air.
10.11. Pest Control. Facility managers shall utilize the installation self-help program to control
pest problems. If the problem persists, the facility manager shall report the pest control problem
to CE Pest Management. Pest control chemicals shall only be applied by appropriately trained
personnel.
10.12. Noise. Noise is usually associated with industrial work areas, but noise in an office area
or from an outside source, e.g., flight line office area, can present problems too. Noise levels can
usually be reduced or controlled. Contact BE for assistance with noise problems.
   10.12.1. Equipment noise — isolate noisy machines from general work areas or equip them
   with sound-reducing (absorbing) covers. Keep telephone ringers on low and purchase quieter
   equipment, e.g., laser printers versus impact printers.
   10.12.2. Overall noise levels — use carpeting and draperies to absorb sound and prevent
   reflections (echoes). Use sound-deadening partitions to divide work spaces. Place filing
   cabinets and bookcases where they will block unnecessary sound.
   10.12.3. Environmental noise originating outdoors can be reduced by closing windows,
   sealing holes and other access points to the outdoors, and modifying HVAC duct
   work/pathways.
   10.12.4. Ventilation noise may be substantially reduced by proper acoustic engineering
   when designing/constructing/modifying HVAC systems, e.g., ensuring adequate duct size
   dissipative silencers, etc.
10.13. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). While Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs)
provide some chemical hazard information, supervisors shall consult the installation Ground
Safety office and BE to ensure proper PPE is identified. If PPE is required, supervisors shall
ensure all workers using the material are provided PPE, know how and when to use it, and how
to properly maintain it. Supervisors shall monitor and enforce proper PPE use. Refer to Chapter
14 for additional guidance.
10.14. Training on Office Tasks and Equipment. Supervisors shall ensure new workers
receive appropriate training IAW AFI 91-202. Workers shall receive retraining/additional
training whenever surroundings are changed, new equipment is obtained or tasks are altered.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           109



10.15. Office Safety Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in
this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements
exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local
safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual
location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   10.15.1. Are all floor areas kept clean, dry and free of refuse? Reference 10.2.2.1
   10.15.2. Are telephone and electrical cords located where they do not pose a tripping
   hazard? Reference 10.2.2.1
   10.15.3. Are all defects, such as floor tiles, broken steps, torn carpet or curled mats identified
   until repaired or replaced? Reference 10.2.2.2
   10.15.4. Are stepstools or ladders used to access anything above shoulder level? Reference
   10.2.2.4
   10.15.5. Are office ergonomics considered when attempting to fit the job to the person?
   Reference 10.3
   10.15.6. Is team lifting considered when lifting heavy or awkward objects? Reference 10.4
   10.15.7. Are heavy materials stored in the bottom of file cabinets? Reference 10.5.5.1
   10.15.8. Are frayed electrical cords, broken electrical wires and outlet covers repaired or
   removed from service immediately? Reference 10.5.7.1
   10.15.9. Are heating appliances, such as coffee makers, plugged directly into a facility outlet
   and unplugged at the end of the work shift? Reference 10.5.7.3
   10.15.10. Is access to fuses, circuit breakers and electrical controls clear and unobstructed?
   Reference 10.5.7.6
   10.15.11. Are flammable and combustible liquids stored in office occupancies limited to that
   required for maintenance and operation of building and equipment? Reference 10.8.4.1
   10.15.12. Are rags or cloth containing flammable or combustible liquid residue deposited in
   approved self-closing metal waste containers immediately after use? Reference 10.8.4.3
 110                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                            Chapter 11

                                      WEATHER SAFETY

11.1. Responsibilities.
   11.1.1. The supporting Air Force weather organization is responsible for making initial
   notification of adverse or mission-limiting weather conditions to predetermined support
   agencies. Note: Adverse or mission-limiting weather conditions include strong surface
   winds, heavy rain, freezing precipitation, thunderstorms, frequent dangerous lightning and
   damaging winds, snow, heavy rain and hail.
   11.1.2. Each Air Force installation shall develop a local procedure to ensure key personnel
   and agencies involved in high weather risk activities and operations are notified according to
   the installation weather support document. Normally, these agencies are those having
   aircraft, petroleum/oil/lubricant (POL) facilities, open air work and recreational activities,
   explosive loading, aircraft maintenance and utilities work. Key personnel, in turn, shall
   advise all on-duty supervisors to take proper precautions and timely actions.
   11.1.3. Each installation shall employ a lightning safety program with a two-tiered
   notification system to minimize personnel exposure to lightning hazards. Refer to paragraph
   11.2.3 for additional information.
11.2. General Lightning Safety for all AF Activities and Operations.
   11.2.1. When lightning is detected or observed within the immediate vicinity of any activity
   or operation, the following precautions shall be taken:
       11.2.1.1. Do not go outdoors or remain out unless it is absolutely necessary. Seek shelter
       in:
          11.2.1.1.1. Dwellings or other buildings that are protected against lightning.
          11.2.1.1.2. Protected underground shelters.
          11.2.1.1.3. Large metal framed buildings.
          11.2.1.1.4. Enclosed automobiles, buses, aircraft and other vehicles with metal tops
          and bodies.
          11.2.1.1.5. Streets that may be shielded by nearby buildings.
   11.2.2. Certain locations are extremely hazardous during thunderstorms and shall be
   avoided:
       11.2.2.1. Hilltops and ridges.
       11.2.2.2. Areas on top of buildings.
       11.2.2.3. Open fields, athletic fields, golf courses.
       11.2.2.4. Parking lots, tennis/outdoor multi-purpose athletic courts.
       11.2.2.5. Swimming pools, lakes and seashores.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        111



       11.2.2.6. Near wire fences, power and telephone poles, clotheslines, overhead wires,
       towers and railroad tracks.
       11.2.2.7. Under isolated trees.
       11.2.2.8. Near electrical appliances, telephones, plumbing fixtures and metal or
       electrically conductive objects.
       11.2.2.9. Aircraft dry bays, tanks and wheel wells.
   11.2.3. Two-tier notification system.
       11.2.3.1. A Lightning Watch is in effect 30 minutes prior to thunderstorms being within
       a 5 nautical mile (nm) radius of any predetermined location or activity as forecast by the
       supporting Air Force weather organization. Note: Lightning is a direct product of a
       thunderstorm. During a Lightning Watch, operations or activities may continue.
       However, all personnel must be prepared to implement Lightning Warning procedures
       without delay. Be alert for any lightning activity, to include audible thunder, and advise
       supervisory personnel of any observations.
       11.2.3.2. A Lightning Warning is in effect when lightning occurs within a five (5) nm
       radius of the predetermined locations and activities. Personnel in affected locations or
       engaged in affected activities shall cease all outside activity and seek shelter.
       Recommended locations that provide safe shelter and locations to avoid are listed in
       paragraphs 11.2.1.1 and 11.2.2.
   11.2.4. If lightning does not occur within a five (5) nm radius at the valid (forecast) time of
   the Lightning Watch, the supporting Air Force weather organization shall reassess the
   Lightning Watch and amend as needed. Lightning warnings shall be canceled when the
   thunderstorms have passed beyond the five (5) nm radius of the location or activity. A
   Lightning Watch shall not be canceled if there is potential for more thunderstorms within 30
   minutes.
   11.2.5. All aircraft fuel service maintenance activities, including liquid oxygen (LOX)
   servicing, shall cease whenever a Lightning Warning is in effect. Military service stations
   that have the newer automatic fuel dispensing system (FMU 2550) will not have to be placed
   in the manual mode during a Lightning Warning. The older fuel dispensing system (FMU
   2000) shall continue to be placed in the manual mode during a Lightning Warning.
   Exception: Commercial and Department of Defense (DoD) pipeline receipts, issues from
   installation exchange (BX) service station, vehicle movements (including refuelers) and
   pipeline transfers (including bulk storage).
11.3. Weather Safety Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in
this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements
exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local
safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual
location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   11.3.1. Does the base weather station make initial notification to predetermined support
   agencies in the event of or forecast of adverse weather conditions? Reference 11.1.1
112                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  11.3.2. Has the installation developed local procedures to ensure personnel and agencies
  involved in high weather risk activities are notified and adverse weather precautions are
  taken in a timely manner? Reference 11.1.2
  11.3.3. When lightning is detected or observed, are actions taken to minimize personnel
  exposure to lightning hazards? Reference 11.2.1
  11.3.4. When lightning is detected or observed in the immediate vicinity, do personnel seek
  shelter in protected buildings or shelters? Reference 11.2.1.1
  11.3.5. Is a two-tier notification system established to minimize personnel exposure to
  lightning? Reference 11.2.3
  11.3.6. Is a lightning watch initiated 30 minutes prior to thunderstorms being within a 5 nm
  radius of any predetermined location or activity as forecast by the supporting AF weather
  organization? Reference 11.2.3.1
  11.3.7. Is a lightning warning in effect whenever any lightning occurs within a five (5) nm
  radius of any predetermined location or activity as forecast by the supporting AF weather
  organization? Reference 11.2.3.2
  11.3.8. Do all outside activities cease and personnel seek adequate shelter during a lightning
  warning? Reference 11.2.3.2.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         113



                                          Chapter 12

                    HAND TOOLS AND PORTABLE POWER TOOLS

12.1. Hazards and Human Factors.
   12.1.1. Hand tools are capable of performing many jobs when used properly. Mishaps
   involving hand tools usually result from misuse. Prevention of mishaps involving hand tools
   on the job site is a matter of good instruction, adequate training and proper use.
   12.1.2. Portable power tools receive power from electricity, air pressure, explosive charges
   or rotating flexible cable. While the portable tool increases mobility and convenience, it is
   frequently more hazardous to use than its stationary counterpart. The reason for this is that
   portable tools are necessarily small, making safety guarding more difficult. Typical injuries
   from use of portable power tools include electrical shock, burns, cuts, eye injuries from
   flying particles and muscle strains. Because electric powered hand tools are portable, the
   operator may allow the power cable to run below the material being worked or sawed and cut
   the cord.
   12.1.3. Using the wrong tool for the task and failure to inspect and remove defective tools
   from service can cause injuries.
12.2. Tool Procurement.
   12.2.1. Specific criteria for tool use shall be contained in technical data requiring use of the
   tool. Refer to TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, for
   additional guidance and information on tools and equipment. Contact the installation Ground
   Safety office for guidance when purchasing equipment items, if needed.
   12.2.2. Portable powered tools shall conform to military specifications (Mil Spec), if
   available. If Mil Specs applicable to a portable powered tool have not been published, the
   procuring document shall include a requirement for the tool to meet or exceed requirements
   in 29 CFR 1910.243., Guarding of Portable Powered Tools, and 29 CFR 1910.304., Wiring
   Design and Protection. When possible, low noise power tools or tools with noise reduction
   attachments shall be utilized. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise &
   Hearing Conservation Program, and BE for additional guidance and information.
   12.2.3. Whenever possible, tools should be selected that minimize operator exposure to
   noise, vibration and awkward positions.
   12.2.4. When safety and ergonomic equipment, attachments and materials specifically
   designed for use with a tool are recommended by the manufacturer, safety equipment,
   attachments and materials that are at least as protective must be provided to the operator and
   required to be used to ensure proper and safe use of the equipment, e.g., metal foot guards
   when using a blasting wand capable of causing an injection foot injury.
12.3. General Requirements.
   12.3.1. Racks, shelves or tool boxes shall be provided for storing tools when not in use.
   Workers shall not keep tools in pants or coat pockets. A running power hand tool shall not be
   left unattended.
 114                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   12.3.2. Hand tools shall be used so the working force is away from a person‘s body in case
   the tool slips. Cheater bars/pipes, used to extend the handle of a tool, will not be used.
   12.3.3. Hand tool safety requires the tools be of good quality, appropriate for the job being
   performed, kept in good repair and maintained only by qualified personnel.
   12.3.4. Workers carrying hand tools while on ladders, scaffolds, platforms or work stands
   shall use carrying bags, i.e., shoulder bags or backpacks, or tool belts for tools that are not in
   use. Workers shall not drop tools from elevated surfaces or throw tools to each other.
   12.3.5. Supervisors and workers shall frequently inspect all hand tools used in the operations
   under their supervision. Defective tools shall be immediately removed from service.
   Common tool defects are:
       12.3.5.1. Handles. When hammer, axe, pick or sledgehammer handles become cracked,
       split, broken or splintered, they shall be immediately replaced. Tool handles shall be well
       fitted and securely fastened by wedges or other acceptable means. Wedges, always used
       in pairs, shall be driven into the handle when repairing a sledgehammer or maul, to
       prevent the head from accidentally flying off if the handle shrinks. Fiberglass handles
       shall not be etched.
       12.3.5.2. Tangs. Files, wood chisels and other tools with tangs shall be fitted and used
       with suitable handles covering the end of the tang. Ends of handles shall not be used for
       pounding or tapping.
   12.3.6. When dressing tools, a slight bevel of about three-sixteenths of an inch shall be
   ground around heads to help prevent the heads from mushrooming.
   12.3.7. Supervisors shall ensure their workers receive thorough instruction and training on
   use of hand and power tools.
12.4. Non-powered Hand Tools.
   12.4.1. Screwdrivers.
       12.4.1.1. Standard, straight blade screwdrivers shall have working edges square and free
       from chipped areas. If it is not possible to regrind a working edge, the screwdriver shall
       be replaced. Screwdrivers with cracked or loose handles shall be repaired or replaced.
       Screwdrivers shall not be used as a prying tool, punch, wedge, chisel, pinch bar, nail
       puller or be struck with a hammer. Workers shall select a screwdriver tip that matches the
       screw slot. Standard type screwdrivers shall not be used on Phillips or cross-head type
       screw slots. Phillips or crosscut screwdrivers shall be used in the correct size relative to
       the fastener. If the tips of any screwdriver or special fastener are worn or misshaped they
       shall be repaired or replaced.
       12.4.1.2. Small objects shall not be held by hand, under the arm or on the lap when being
       worked on with a screwdriver. Small work shall be secured to a flat surface or held in a
       vise.
       12.4.1.3. Workers shall ensure they are well braced before applying force to a
       screwdriver. Firm footing is necessary when using a screwdriver while on a ladder or
       work stand where loss of balance could result in a fall.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       115



  12.4.2. Chisels and Punches. Chisels shall be kept sharp with the edge ground true. Cold
  chisels and punches with mushroom heads shall not be used. A chisel or punch holding
  device shall be used when working space permits. The angle of cut shall be away from the
  body. Safety goggles shall be worn when using a chisel, punch or an alignment drift.
  12.4.3. Wrenches. Damaged, bent or broken wrenches, or wrenches with sprung jaws, shall
  not be used. Wrenches shall not be struck with a hammer unless the wrench is designed for
  this purpose. Worn box wrenches or sockets shall be replaced. When excessive pressure is
  required to free a nut or cap-screw, care shall be taken to avoid positions where the hand will
  strike any part of the object should the wrench slip or the ―fastener‖ break.
     12.4.3.1. Workers using open-end wrenches shall:
         12.4.3.1.1. Ensure the wrench fits the nut or bolt head.
         12.4.3.1.2. Ensure, when attempting to loosen a tight nut or tighten a loose nut, the
         wrench seats squarely on the sides of the nut.
         12.4.3.1.3. Always PULL on a wrench—not push on it. There may be situations
         where pushing is the only way to work the wrench. In these situations use the base of
         the palm to push, keeping an open hand. On adjustable wrenches always place the
         wrench on the nut so the pulling force is applied to the stationary jaw side of the
         handle.
         12.4.3.1.4. Use box wrenches for torque, where possible. This will decrease the
         chance of the wrench slipping off the nut or bolt.
     12.4.3.2. Pipe wrenches shall have sharp jaws to prevent slippage. Using too small a
     wrench will cause the jaws to crack or break.
  12.4.4. Hammers. Hammers vary in hardness and are designed for specific uses. A hammer
  of suitable size and weight for the task shall be used. Hammers with loose or damaged
  handles shall not be used. A hammer shall be discarded if it shows dents, cracks, chips,
  mushrooming or excessive wear. Redressing is not recommended.
     12.4.4.1. Workers shall strike a hammer blow squarely, with the hammer‘s striking face
     parallel with the surface being struck. The sides of hammer heads are not hardened and
     shall never be used for pounding.
     12.4.4.2. Using specific hammers.
         12.4.4.2.1. Common nail hammers. If a nail cannot be withdrawn from an object
         after full rotation of the hammer, then a piece of wood shall be placed under the
         hammer head and the remainder of the nail withdrawn. This increases the leverage
         and reduces strain on the handle.
         12.4.4.2.2. Hardened hammers. Hammers with highly-tempered steel heads shall not
         be used on hard steel objects.
         12.4.4.2.3. Ball peen hammers. Ball peen hammers of proper size and weight shall be
         used for striking cold chisels and punches, and straightening unhardened metal.
116                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         12.4.4.2.4. Consult manufacturers for designs and uses, to include safety procedures,
         when making a determination for hammers used in specific applications such as
         bricklaying, riveting, scaling, chipping or work where nonferrous materials are
         required.
  12.4.5. Saws. Use the proper saw for the assigned task. Crosscut saws shall be used for
  cutting (wood or lumber) across the grain, ripsaws for cutting with the grain and hacksaws
  for cutting metal.
      12.4.5.1. Hand Saws.
         12.4.5.1.1. Hand saws shall be selected for the specific job. Saws with broken teeth
         or broken or cracked handles shall not be used. Saw teeth shall be kept sharp and well
         set to prevent binding. If a saw binds while cutting, the worker shall not attempt to
         force it through the stock.
         12.4.5.1.2. If the saw sticks in damp or gummy wood, a small amount of oil or
         paraffin applied to the blade will make it cut smoothly. Wedges may be used to hold
         the cut open if oil or paraffin does not prevent the saw from sticking.
         12.4.5.1.3. Nails shall not be sawed. Saws shall not be dropped. Saws with dull teeth
         can usually be sharpened and returned to use, but if the saw cannot be restored,
         replace it.
         12.4.5.1.4. When not in use, saws shall be wiped off with an oil moistened rag and
         kept in racks or hung by the handle to prevent damage to the teeth.
      12.4.5.2. Hacksaws. A hacksaw shall be adjusted in the frame to prevent buckling and
      breaking, but shall never be tight enough to break off the pin that supports the blade. The
      blade shall be installed with the teeth pointing forward. Pressure shall be applied on the
      forward stroke only. If the blade is twisted or too much pressure is applied, the blade may
      break, causing injury to the user.
  12.4.6. Pliers, Hand Snips and Cutters. Pliers are designed for gripping and cutting
  operations and shall not be used as a substitution for a wrench or any purpose for which it
  was not intended. Hand snips are designed for cutting sheet-metal. Hand snips shall not be
  hammered on to make a cut. Cutters are designed for use on wire, rods or bolts, and shall not
  be used to pull nails or as a pry bar.
  12.4.7. Knives. Pocketknives, hook-bill knives, exacto knives or other similar extremely
  sharp knives shall be carried in a holder or sheath. The blade of a hook-bill knife shall be
  covered when not in use. Retractable cutters (razors) shall have the blades retracted into their
  handles when carried or not in use. Workers shall always cut away from the body. Hacking
  motions shall never be applied when cutting.
  12.4.8. Crowbars and Wrecking Bars. Crowbars and wrecking bars of sufficient size and
  weight shall be chosen to do the job safely and easily. Makeshift bars, such as pipes or other
  metal objects, shall never be used in place of crowbars and wrecking bars. Crowbars shall
  have a point or toe to grip the object to be moved and a heel to act as a pivot or fulcrum. In
  some cases, a block of wood under the heel shall prevent the crowbar from slipping and
  injuring the user or fellow workers. Damaged crowbars shall not be used.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          117



       12.4.8.1. Case-hardened steel tools shall never be used to strike crowbars or wrecking
       bars. Only plastic, wood or soft metal objects shall be used to hammer on pry-type bars.
   12.4.9. Files. The right kind of file for the job shall be selected. Files shall never be cleaned
   by being struck against a vise or other metal object, because they chip and break easily. They
   shall not be used as a pry bar. Broken files shall be discarded and not made into a center
   punch, chisel or other type of tool, since the hardened steel may fracture in use. Replace
   defective handles immediately.
   12.4.10. Shovels, Rakes, Ice Chippers and Sod Lifters. None of these tools shall be used as
   prying tools. If the handle has been cracked or broken, replace defective handle immediately.
   These tools shall be properly stored when not in use. When shovels, rakes, hoes and similar
   tools are not in use at the job site, they shall be positioned where the working surface cannot
   be stepped on.
   12.4.11. Chains. Chains, when used on a job, shall be the right size. Using too small a chain
   shall cause the links to stretch and lose strength. The chain shall be inspected before and after
   each use. The chain shall not be held in the hand when pressure is applied, nor shall an
   employee stand closer than one-half the length of the chain when the chain is under tension.
12.5. Powered Portable Hand Tools. Portable power tools increase mobility and convenience
but are frequently more hazardous to use than their stationary counterparts. Personnel required to
use portable power tools in their work shall be thoroughly trained in safe operating practices.
Safe operating procedures shall be set up for each type of tool (consistent with this standard and
the manufacturer‘s instructions). Supervisors and organizations that issue power tools/equipment
for self-help projects must ensure workers are properly trained on the equipment used and
training is documented. Additionally, supervisors shall be responsible for the safe condition of
tools and equipment used. Note: Contractors may use their own tools per the authorized contract
agreement.
   12.5.1. Cords and Hoses.
       12.5.1.1. Care shall be taken to prevent cords and hoses that supply power to portable
       tools from becoming tripping hazards on the job site.
       12.5.1.2. Only rubber-sheathed cords approved by Underwriters Laboratories (UL) that
       meet the requirement of NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, shall be used on portable
       electric tools and extension lamps.
       12.5.1.3. All power tool cords include a ground wire in addition to the power wires,
       unless used with double insulated tools, where the ground wire may be omitted.
       12.5.1.4. Tools shall never be raised or lowered by electrical power cords. This includes
       the air hose for air powered tools.
       12.5.1.5. Special type cords (rubber covered or plastic) shall be used in areas where oils
       or solvents may be encountered.
       12.5.1.6. Heavy-duty plugs, clamped securely to the cords, shall be used on all power
       tools. Workers shall not attempt to unplug power cords by jerking them from their
       connections. Personnel using electric power hand tools shall be aware of the location of
118                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      the power supply cord at all times. Note: It‘s best practice to disconnect power cords
      when changing out tool accessories such as die sets, arbors, bits, etc.
  12.5.2. Switches and Controls.
      12.5.2.1. To ensure greater operator safety, the power tools listed below shall be
      equipped with a constant-pressure switch or control that will shut off power when the
      pressure is released. Portable power tool switches shall be protected against accidental
      operation. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.243., Guarding of Portable Powered Tools, for
      additional information.
         12.5.2.1.1. Hand-held powered circular saws with a blade diameter over two (2)
         inches.
         12.5.2.1.2. Electric, pneumatic or hydraulic chain saws.
         12.5.2.1.3. All hand-held gasoline-powered chain saws.
         12.5.2.1.4. Percussion tools without positive accessory holding means.
      12.5.2.2. The portable hand-held power tools listed below shall be equipped with a
      constant- pressure switch or control and may have a lock-on control, provided turn-off
      can be accomplished by a single motion of the same finger (or fingers) that turns it on:
         12.5.2.2.1. Drills.
         12.5.2.2.2. Tapers.
         12.5.2.2.3. Fastener devices.
         12.5.2.2.4. Horizontal, vertical and angle grinders with wheels over two (2) inches in
         diameter.
         12.5.2.2.5. Belt sanders.
         12.5.2.2.6. Reciprocating saws.
         12.5.2.2.7. Saber, scroll and jigsaws with blade shanks over 1/4 inch (nominal).
         12.5.2.2.8. Other similarly operating powered tools.
         12.5.2.2.9. All other handheld powered tools such as routers, planers and shears may
         be equipped with a positive ―on-off‖ control. Use of Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter
         (GFCI) devices is recommended with these tools.
  12.5.3. Fire Hazards. Electric powered hand tools shall not be used near flammable materials
  or in explosive atmospheres unless approved to meet NEC requirements for the type of area
  and atmosphere in which the tool is to be used.
  12.5.4. Grounding. All portable electric tools with exposed metal parts shall be grounded
  IAW the NEC. An incomplete grounding circuit can subject the user to electrical shock.
  Approved three-wire cords shall be used to effectively ground these tools. An incomplete
  grounding circuit can subject the user to electrical shock. Double-insulated portable electric
  hand tools (grounding wire not required) are authorized. The ground prong of a three-wire
  plug shall never be removed. If a cord is found with the ground prong removed, it shall be
  removed from service, rendered unusable and turned in for repair or replacement.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         119



   12.5.5. Damp or Wet Locations. Electric powered tools used in damp or wet locations, such
   as in tanks, boilers or outdoors, shall be grounded, unless double insulated. GFCI devices
   shall be used IAW the NEC.
   12.5.6. Electric Power Tools. Electric power tools often present the same hazards as other
   electrical facilities and equipment. Personnel using electric power tools shall be familiar with
   accepted safe operating standards and the hazards of electricity associated with tool use.
12.6. Specific Requirements.
   12.6.1. Portable Circular Saws. All portable, power-driven circular saws with a blade
   diameter over two (2) inches shall be equipped with guards above and below the base plate
   shoe. The upper guard shall cover the saw to the depth of the teeth, except for the minimum
   arc required to permit the base to be tilted for bevel cuts. The lower guard shall cover the saw
   to the depth of the teeth, except for the minimum arc required to allow proper retraction and
   contact with the work. When the tool is withdrawn from the work, the lower guard shall
   automatically and instantly return to cover the blade.
      12.6.1.1. A circular saw with a sticking spring-operated guard shall be removed from
      service and repaired before workers are allowed to use it. Most circular saw injuries
      occur from contact with the blade, electric shock or burns, tripping over cords or saws,
      losing balance while using the saw, dropping the saw on oneself or another person and
      kickbacks from pinching blades in the cut. Flying sawdust or small particles can also
      cause severe eye injuries. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.243. for additional information.
      12.6.1.2. Workers shall not stand directly behind the saw while cutting operations are in
      progress. Kickbacks may occur, and if the lower guard sticks, the moving saw blade
      could come in contact with the operator‘s body, causing severe injury. The saw‘s
      telescoping saw guard shall be checked frequently while in use to ensure it works freely,
      encloses the teeth as completely as possible and covers the unused portion of the blade
      when it is cutting. Both upper and lower guards shall be kept clean and free of sawdust or
      dirt accumulations. Workers shall remove the power cord from the power supply when
      checking the guards; cleaning, installing or removing the blade; and while performing
      maintenance.
      12.6.1.3. Periodic inspections are essential to discover operating defects. A systematic
      inspection schedule and maintenance record for each tool will help prevent mishaps and
      ensure maximum use of the tool at a minimum operating cost. During the inspection,
      defective tools shall be taken out of service immediately and tagged for repair. Workers
      shall be instructed to inspect tools used on the job site and shall be trained to recognize
      defects and improper functioning. The extent of this inspection and the responsibility for
      correcting defects shall be clearly outlined so there is neither unnecessary duplication of
      effort nor misunderstanding regarding the responsibility for maintenance. Additional
      guidance on carpentry and/or woodworking equipment can be found in Chapter 18,
      Machinery, and 29 CFR 1910.243.
   12.6.2. Chain Saws. The following precautions shall be observed by all users of chain saws:
      12.6.2.1. Do not operate a chain saw when fatigued.
120                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      12.6.2.2. Use safety footwear, snug-fitting clothing, protective gloves and eye, hearing
      and head protection devices. Use leggings as described in Chapter 14, Personal
      Protective Equipment (PPE), when possible.
      12.6.2.3. Use caution when handling fuel. Allow the engine to cool before refueling.
      Move the chain saw at least 10 feet from the fueling point before starting the engine.
      12.6.2.4. Do not allow other persons near the chain saw when starting or cutting. Keep
      bystanders and animals out of the work area.
      12.6.2.5. Do not start cutting until you have a clear work area, secure footing and a
      planned retreat path from the falling tree or limb, etc.
      12.6.2.6. Hold the chain saw firmly with both hands when the engine is running. Use a
      firm grip with thumbs and fingers encircling the chain saw handles.
      12.6.2.7. Keep all parts of the body away from the saw chain when the engine is running.
      12.6.2.8. Ensure the saw chain is not contacting anything before starting the engine.
      12.6.2.9. Carry the chain saw with the engine stopped, the guide bar and saw chain to the
      rear and the muffler away from the body.
      12.6.2.10. Do not operate a chain saw that is damaged, improperly adjusted or not
      completely and securely assembled. Ensure the saw chain stops moving when the throttle
      control trigger is released. Replace the guide bar whenever the guide bar is worn to a
      point where the chain will tilt sideways. Keep the chain sharp. A dull chain requires extra
      pressure by the operator, lessening control over the saw.
      12.6.2.11. Shut off the chain saw engine before setting it down.
      12.6.2.12. Use extreme caution when cutting small size brush and saplings because
      slender material may catch the saw chain and be whipped toward you or pull you off
      balance.
      12.6.2.13. When cutting a limb under tension, be alert for spring back so you will not be
      struck when the tension in the wood fibers is released.
      12.6.2.14. Keep saw handles dry, clean and free of oil or fuel mixture.
      12.6.2.15. Operate the chain saw only in well-ventilated areas.
      12.6.2.16. Do not operate a chain saw while in a tree unless you have been specifically
      trained for the operation.
      12.6.2.17. Ensure all chain saw service, other than items listed in the owner‘s manual
      maintenance instructions, is performed by competent chain saw service personnel. For
      example, if improper tools are used to remove the flywheel or to hold the flywheel to
      remove the clutch, structural damage to the flywheel could occur and subsequently cause
      the flywheel to burst.
      12.6.2.18. Guard against kickback. Kickback is the upward motion of the guide bar that
      occurs when the saw chain at the nose of the guide bar contacts an object. Kickback can
      lead to loss of control of the chain saw. To reduce kickback:
         12.6.2.18.1. Hold the chain saw firmly with both hands.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       121



         12.6.2.18.2. Do not overreach.
         12.6.2.18.3. Do not let the nose of the guide bar contact a log, branch, ground or any
         other obstruction.
         12.6.2.18.4. Cut at high engine speeds.
         12.6.2.18.5. Do not cut above shoulder height.
         12.6.2.18.6. Follow manufacturer‘s maintenance instructions when sharpening or
         performing maintenance on the chain saw.
         12.6.2.18.7. Use devices that reduce kickback hazards, such as low-kickback chain,
         guide bar nose guards, chain brakes and special guide bars.
     12.6.2.19. Use the appropriate guide bar scabbard when transporting the chain saw.
  12.6.3. Powder-Actuated Tools. Cartridge-type explosives power this group of hand tools,
  which involve hazards normally encountered with ammunition and other explosives. These
  tools are used to sink fasteners into non-brittle surfaces, such as driving studs into steel or
  concrete, and tightening rivets.
     12.6.3.1. Training. Workers shall be thoroughly instructed in the safe use of any powder-
     actuated tool before being permitted to operate it. All training shall be conducted by an
     authorized/qualified instructor. At the end of training, the worker shall satisfactorily
     complete a written examination provided by the manufacturer of the tool. After
     successfully passing the test, the worker shall receive a qualified operator‘s card, issued
     and signed by both the instructor and applicant. All operators shall have this card in their
     possession while using the tool. The worker must be able to:
         12.6.3.1.1. Understand the manufacturer‘s instruction manual.
         12.6.3.1.2. Clean the tool correctly.
         12.6.3.1.3. Recognize any visibly worn or damaged parts or defective operation.
         12.6.3.1.4. Recognize the number-color code system to identify powder load levels.
         12.6.3.1.5. Use the tool correctly within the limitations of its use and correctly
         operate the tool in the presence of the instructor.
         12.6.3.1.6. Know what PPE is required when using tools.
     12.6.3.2. When a tool of this type is suggested for a task, a thorough study of the
     operation shall be made. Kinds of materials encountered, size and strength of explosives
     needed and possible dangers to nearby workers shall all be considered before tools are
     issued to operators. In the event of a misfire, the operator shall hold the tool firmly
     against the work surface for a period of 30 seconds and then follow the explicit
     instruction set forth in the manufacturer‘s instruction manual. A sign, at least 20 cm x 25
     cm (8‖ x 10‖), using boldface type that is not less than 2.5 cm (1‖) in height, shall be
     posted in plain sight where powder-actuated tools are used. A sign shall be posted in the
     area of tool use and in areas adjacent to tool use where walls, floors or working surface
     penetration may pose a hazard. At a minimum, the sign shall bear wording similar to the
     following: DANGER: POWDER-ACTUATED TOOL IN USE.
 122                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       12.6.3.3. These tools, their ammunition and charges shall all be secured.
       12.6.3.4. Each tool shall be equipped with a steel muzzle guard at least 3-1/2 inches in
       diameter, mounted perpendicular to the barrel and designed to confine flying fragments
       or particles that might create a hazard. When a standard shield or guard cannot be used,
       or when it does not provide adequate coverage to catch all flying particles, a
       manufacturer‘s special shield or guard, fixture or jig that provides equal protection may
       be used instead. To use the tool inside boxes or recessed areas, the guard shall be secured
       to the muzzle so it can be easily adjusted.
       12.6.3.5. Cartridge-powered tools shall be constructed to prevent operation if they are
       not fitted with a muzzle guard or protective jig of the manufacturer‘s design.
       12.6.3.6. All tools of this type shall be constructed so they cannot be fired unless the
       operator is holding the tool against a work surface with a force at least five (5) pounds
       greater than the total weight of the tool.
       12.6.3.7. Powder-actuated tools equipped with standard muzzle guards shall not fire if
       the guard is tilted more than eight (8) degrees from contact with the working surface.
       12.6.3.8. No fastener of any kind shall be driven into masonry closer than three (3)
       inches to a corner or edge. Unless jigs or special guards are used to stop flying particles,
       fasteners shall not be fired into steel closer than 1/2 inch to an edge, corner or joint.
       12.6.3.9. Projectile firing tools shall be constructed to prevent discharge if dropped.
       12.6.3.10. Powder actuated tools shall not be used in explosive or flammable
       atmospheres.
12.7. Personal Protective Clothing and Equipment.
   12.7.1. Clothing. Each portable power tool operator shall wear suitable work clothes.
   Operators shall, if necessary, wear caps or other garments to keep their hair from contact
   with rotating or moving parts of the tool. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional information on
   PPE requirements. No worker shall wear loose sleeves, neckties, rings or other clothing or
   jewelry that could become tangled in a hand power tool. Refer to Chapter 9, Jewelry, for
   additional information on wearing jewelry while operating power tools.
   12.7.2. Protective Eyewear and Respirators.
       12.7.2.1. Operators shall wear protective eyewear and/or face shields when using hand
       power tools that may cause flying particles, including overhead. Refer to Chapter 14 for
       additional information.
       12.7.2.2. If respirators are required by BE, refer to paragraph 14.4.5 for guidance on
       respiratory protection.
   12.7.3. Hearing Protection. Refer to paragraph 3.1.2.11 for guidance.
12.8. Hand Tools and Portable Power Tools Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist.
It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this
chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate,
MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to
include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       123



  12.8.1. Are tools stored on racks or shelves or in boxes when not in use? Reference 12.3.1
  12.8.2. Are power tools unplugged and properly stored when not in use? Reference 12.3.1
  12.8.3. Do workers carry tools in tool belts or other carrying devices such as shoulder bags
  or backpacks when climbing ladders or while working at elevated heights such as scaffolds,
  platforms or work stands? Reference 12.3.4
  12.8.4. Are workers not allowed to drop tools from elevated surfaces, or throw tools back
  and forth to each other? Reference 12.3.4
  12.8.5. Are tools inspected for defects, and defective tools immediately removed from
  service? Reference 12.3.5
  12.8.6. Are screwdrivers used only for their intended purpose and not as chisels, punches or
  pry bars? Reference 12.4.1.1
  12.8.7. Is small work requiring the use of a screwdriver secured in a vise or by other suitable
  means and not held by hand, under the arm or in the lap? Reference 12.4.1.2
  12.8.8. Are chisels, punches and hammers with mushroom heads removed from service?
  Reference 12.4.2
  12.8.9. Are hammers used for their designed purpose and function? Reference 12.4.4
  12.8.10. Are handsaws selected and used for their designed purpose, i.e., crosscut saw for
  cutting across wood grain, a ripsaw for cutting with wood grain and a hacksaw for cutting
  metal? Reference 12.4.5
  12.8.11. Are blades such as knives, razor blades, utility knives, exacto knives, etc., properly
  protected or sheathed? Reference 12.4.7
  12.8.12. When power hand tools are used, is care taken to prevent cords and hoses from
  becoming tripping hazards? Reference 12.5.1.1
  12.8.13. Are power tools equipped with a constant pressure switch or control that shuts off
  the tools when released? Reference 12.5.2.1
  12.8.14. Are switches on power tools protected against accidental start-up or operation?
  Reference 12.5.2.1
  12.8.15. Are portable electric tools with exposed metal parts properly grounded or double
  insulated? Reference 12.5.4
  12.8.16. Are all portable circular saws with a blade diameter over two (2) inches equipped
  with guards above and below the base plate shoe? Reference 12.6.1
  12.8.17. When the saw is withdrawn from the stock being cut, does the lower guard
  automatically and instantly return to cover the blade? Reference 12.6.1
  12.8.18. When using a circular saw, does the operator stand to the side and not directly
  behind the saw while cutting is in progress? Reference 12.6.1.2
  12.8.19. Do workers remove the power source to saws before making any adjustments,
  cleaning or performing any maintenance on them? Reference 12.6.1.2
124                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  12.8.20. Do workers who operate chain saws wear safety footwear, snug-fitting clothing,
  protective gloves and eye, hearing and head protection? Reference 12.6.2.2
  12.8.21. Is the chain saw engine allowed to cool before refueling and the chain saw started a
  minimum of ten (10) feet from the fueling point? Reference 12.6.2.3
  12.8.22. Do workers plan a path of retreat in the event of an unplanned or premature falling
  tree or limb? Reference 12.6.2.5
  12.8.23. Are chain saws that are not properly maintained, adjusted or properly assembled
  removed from service until repairs are made? Reference 12.6.2.10
  12.8.24. Are chain saws only operated in well ventilated areas? Reference 12.6.2.15
  12.8.25. Are workers well trained and familiar with the operation of the tool and the
  characteristics of the materials involved before being permitted to operate powder-actuated
  tools? Reference 12.6.3.1
  12.8.26. Is each tool equipped with a steel muzzle guard at least 3-1/2 inches in diameter,
  mounted perpendicular to the barrel and designed to confine flying fragments or particles
  when the tool is operated? Reference 12.6.3.4
  12.8.27. Are tools designed to operate only when the operator is holding the tool against a
  work surface with a force at least five (5) pounds greater than the total weight of the tool?
  Reference 12.6.3.6
  12.8.28. Do operators ensure that no fastener of any kind will be driven into masonry within
  three (3) inches to a corner or edge? Reference 12.6.3.8
  12.8.29. Are tools designed to prevent discharge if dropped? Reference 12.6.3.9
  12.8.30. Do operators wear protective goggles or face shields and other protective
  equipment, such as a respirator, when operations require it? Reference 12.7.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          125



                                          Chapter 13

                                    FALL PROTECTION

13.1. General Information.
   13.1.1. Worker fall protection requires an in-depth evaluation of risks. Supervisors will:
      13.1.1.1. Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, and AFI 91-202, The US Air
      Force Mishap Prevention Program, for further information on the Job Safety Analysis
      (JSA) and job safety lesson plan. Note: A JSA is not required if existing guidance covers
      all safety requirements of an operation or process, such as TO 00-25-172, Ground
      Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
      13.1.1.2. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and
      Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance on
      workplace hazards.
   13.1.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. BE personnel perform
   occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments of industrial work processes.
   Supervisors with workplace health hazards questions should contact BE. Refer to paragraph
   2.3 for additional information.
   13.1.3. Additional Information. Competent person means a person who can identify
   hazardous or dangerous conditions in personal fall arrest systems (PFAS) or any component
   thereof, and their applications and uses with related fall protection equipment. Refer to
   paragraph 1.9 for information on qualified person.
13.2. Specific Requirements. Fall protection is required for workers working in elevated
locations on open-sided floors and platforms and near floor and wall openings. Note: Fall
protection is not required when working from portable ladders.
   13.2.1. Fall prevention and protection must be considered for maintenance work or storing
   of equipment at heights. At the planning and design phase of a project, fall hazards shall be
   considered and eliminated whenever possible. When elimination or prevention of fall hazards
   is not feasible, the design must include certified and labeled anchorages IAW 29 CFR
   1910.66, Powered Platforms for Building Maintenance, and ANSI Z359.1, Safety
   Requirements for Personal Fall Arrest Systems, Subsystems and Components. Where fall
   protection is required near weight handling equipment, care must be taken to prevent
   potential conflicts between the weight handling equipment and fall protection measures.
   13.2.2. General Industry. Passive fall protection shall be provided whenever workers can fall
   four (4) feet or more. This four (4) foot rule applies to all walking and working surfaces and
   includes open-sided floors and platforms, wall openings and window wall openings at a
   stairway landing, floor, platform or balcony with a drop of four (4) feet or more. Refer to
   paragraph 13.3.1 for types of fall protection.
   13.2.3. Aircraft Flight Line Operations. Refer to Chapter 24, Aircraft Flight Line – Ground
   Operations and Activities.
 126                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   13.2.4. Construction Operations. Fall protection shall be provided when workers can fall six
   (6) feet or more. This six (6) foot rule applies to all walking and working surfaces, including
   scaffolding, roofs, open-sided floors and platforms, wall openings and window wall openings
   at a stairway landing, floor, platform or balcony with a drop of six (6) feet or more.
       13.2.4.1. Fall protection is not required for inspections, investigations or assessments of
       workplace conditions prior to the actual start of construction work or after all
       construction what has been completed.
       13.2.4.2. Fall protection is not required on inspections or assessments of flat roofs.
       However, fall protection is required on inspections or assessments of sloped roofs.
       Additionally, if an inspection team turns into a working, team, i.e., tightening a screw,
       making an adjustment on a lightning protection system, etc., the team will don fall
       protection equipment.
       13.2.4.3. If the inspection is within six (6) feet of the edge of the roof, fall protection will
       be required.
   13.2.5. Erecting or Dismantling Fall Protection. Workers shall be provided with a safe
   means for erecting or dismantling fall protection systems and features.
   13.2.6. Dangerous Equipment and Machinery. Regardless of the fall distance, fall protection
   must be provided when working over dangerous equipment and machinery.
13.3. Protection From Falls. Workers shall be protected from falls of four (4) feet or more.
   13.3.1. Types of Fall Protection.
       13.3.1.1. Passive. Passive fall protection, such as guardrails, work stands and platforms
       (aircraft maintenance stands, i.e., B-1, B-4, B-5, etc.), nets, ladder cages and other
       devices can prevent a worker from falling, but are not directly connected to the worker.
       Nets do not prevent a worker from falling, but does prevent a worker from hitting the
       next level. If passive fall protection is not feasible, active fall protection is the preferred
       option.
       13.3.1.2. Active. Active fall protection, such as positioning and restraint systems, ladder
       climbing devices and PFAS, require the worker to wear a harness and attach
       himself/herself to an anchorage or lifeline. Positioning and restraint systems prevent a
       worker from falling while a PFAS permits a worker to fall, but limits arresting loads to
       generally safe levels.
           13.3.1.2.1. Positioning and restraint systems. Fall restraint systems, also referred to
           as work positioning systems, are similar to a PFAS; however, fall restraint systems
           restrict a worker‘s range of movement so the individual cannot fall to the surface
           below.
           13.3.1.2.2. See paragraph 13.4.6 for detailed guidance on PFAS.
       13.3.1.3. Procedural Controls. Procedural controls, such as using TO designated aircraft
       surfaces, are the least preferred method of fall protection, but may be considered when
       active and/or passive measures are ineffective, would create a greater hazard or are not
       feasible. Procedural fall protection requires aggressive risk management and shall be
       documented in a JSA coordinated with the installation Ground Safety office before
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       127



      procedural controls are used. Note: Consistent with OSHA guidelines, cost shall not be a
      consideration for selecting procedural controls.
          13.3.1.3.1. Job Safety Analysis (JSA). A JSA shall be performed where procedural
          controls are the only practical means of providing fall protection. The JSA, and any
          changes, shall be prepared by a qualified person, as defined in Attachment 1, Terms,
          and developed specifically for the worksite. JSAs shall be kept up to date and
          maintained at the work center for the work site, i.e., Maintenance Supervisor or
          Superintendent, Flight Chief, Supervisor office, TODO offices, etc. Implementation
          of the JSA shall be under the supervision of a competent person, as defined in
          Attachment 1, Terms. Refer to AFI 91-202 for additional guidance on the JSA.
          Procedures and equipment identified in the JSA shall be considered the minimum
          mandatory requirements for operations covered in the JSA, and shall include:
              13.3.1.3.1.1. An assessment of the operation and fall hazard.
              13.3.1.3.1.2. Why active and passive fall protection systems (i.e., guardrails,
              PFAS or net systems) are not feasible or would create a greater hazard.
              13.3.1.3.1.3. Description of the fall protection measures available and each
              location where conventional fall protection methods cannot be used (these will
              become controlled access zones).
              13.3.1.3.1.4. A corrective action plan describing planned upgrades (equipment,
              cost and timetable, prioritized by the shop) and appropriate Risk Assessment
              Codes (RACs), to partially or totally eliminate need for procedural controls.
   13.3.2. Air Force item managers (Depot) shall perform the necessary functions, i.e.,
   describing planned upgrades, costs, timetables and prioritization, for Air Force equipment not
   meeting fall protection standards.
13.4. Fall Protection Equipment.
   13.4.1. Railings. Refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall
   Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, and 29 CFR 1910.23,
   Guarding Floor and Wall Opening and Holes, for information on railings.
   13.4.2. Fixed Work Platforms. Refer to Chapter 17, Scaffolding, for additional guidance.
   13.4.3. Mobile Work Platforms. Vehicle-mounted elevating and rotating work platforms,
   manual and self-propelled mobile work platforms or similar equipment may be used to
   protect workers provided guards, railings, a PFAS or other similar devices are incorporated
   in the platform design. Refer to Chapter 16, Mobile Elevating Work Platforms, and 29 CFR
   1910.29, Manually Propelled Mobile Ladder Stands and Scaffolds (Towers), for additional
   information.
   13.4.4. Safety Nets. Nets may be used when workers are more than 25 feet above ground,
   water or other surfaces where ladders, catch platforms, temporary floors, fixed or mobile
   work platforms or PFAS are impractical. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.105, Safety Nets, for
   additional guidance. Safety nets shall:
 128                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       13.4.4.1. Have a net mesh size not exceeding 6 by 6 inches. New nets shall be certified
       and labeled by the manufacturer to meet a 17,500 foot-pounds minimum impact
       resistance test. Edge ropes shall have a minimum breaking strength of 5,000 pounds.
       13.4.4.2. Extend at least 8 feet beyond the edge of the work surface where workers are
       exposed and be installed as close under the work surface as practical, but not more than
       25 feet below such work surface. Safety nets shall be installed with sufficient clearance
       under them to prevent worker‘s contact with the surface or structures below when
       subjected to an impact force equal to the drop test. Note: The worker fall to net distance
       determines the actual distance the net shall extend. If the fall is 5 feet or less, the net shall
       extend outward 8 feet; if over 5 feet and up to 10 feet, the net must extend outward 10
       feet; if over 10 feet, the net must extend outward 13 feet (See Table 13.1).

Table 13.1. Minimum Required Horizontal Distance.
                         Minimum Required Horizontal Distance
Vertical distance from working level to    Minimum required horizontal distance of
horizontal plane of net                    outer edge of net from the edge of the
                                           working surface
Up to 5 feet                               8 feet
More than 5 feet, up to 10 feet            10 feet
More than 10 feet                          13 feet
       13.4.4.3. Be drop tested and inspected. Operations shall not be started until each net is
       drop tested and inspected. A 400-pound bag of sand not more than 30 inches (± 2 inches)
       in diameter shall be dropped from the working height above the net into the center of
       each net after the following: initial installation but before use, whenever relocated, after
       major repair and at 6-month intervals if left in one place. Additionally, pre-used nets shall
       be inspected whenever a drop test is accomplished.
       13.4.4.4. Be certified prior to use. When drop testing is not feasible, the supervisor, team
       leader or team designated competent worker shall certify the net and net installation. The
       certification record shall identify each net/installation, date each net/installation was
       determined in compliance and signature of person making the determination and
       certification. The most recent certification record shall be available at the worksite.
       13.4.4.5. Be constructed with forged steel safety hooks or shackles, with a 5,000 pound
       minimum breaking strength. The hooks or shackles shall be used to fasten the net to its
       supports and connections between net panels, ensuring the full strength of the net.
       13.4.4.6. Comply with 29 CFR 1926.502, Fall Protection Systems Criteria and
       Practices.
   13.4.5. Ladder Safety Devices. Cages or wells shall be provided on ladders more than 20
   feet in length, up to a maximum of 30 feet. Ladders over 30 feet shall be broken into sections
   with landing platforms spaced no more than 30 feet apart. Ladder safety devices may be used
   on tower, water tank and chimney ladders in lieu of cages, and no landing platform is
   required. Ladder safety devices shall: limit worker fall to less than two (2) feet, meet the
   design requirements of the ladders they serve, permit the worker to ascend or descend
   without having to continually handle any part of the device and be attached to a frontal
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       129



  centered D-ring or other specifically designed frontal attachment point on a full body
  harness.
  13.4.6. Personal Fall Arrest Systems (PFAS). PFAS systems require an anchorage point,
  connecting means, lanyard and shock absorber. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.502, Fall Protection
  Systems Criteria and Practices, and 29 CFR 1910.66, Appendix C, Personal Fall Arrest
  System, for additional information. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.104., Safety Belts, Lifelines, and
  Lanyards, for additional guidance on basic PFAS guidelines (safety harnesses, lanyards,
  lifelines). Note: To prevent worker injury or death, PFASs shall not be used without a rescue
  plan; refer to paragraph 13.7.
     13.4.6.1. Selection. PFAS shall be selected by a qualified person, match the particular
     work situation and minimize free fall distance (not to exceed six [6] feet). PFAS
     equipment shall meet or exceed requirements in ANSI Standard Z359.1., Personal Fall
     Arrest Systems, Subsystems and Components. Only commercially manufactured fall
     arrest equipment shall be used.
     13.4.6.2. PFAS equipment shall have the manufacturer‘s name, identification code and
     date of manufacture stamped on the equipment or permanently attached tag and shall be
     marked to indicate compliance with ANSI Z359.1.
         13.4.6.2.1. The service life of fall protection equipment manufactured of synthetic
         fiber shall be five (5) years (unless otherwise specified by the manufacturer), or
         sooner if determined unserviceable per paragraph 13.4.6.10.5. The five (5) year
         service life begins once the equipment is put in service, assuming the new unused
         equipment is stored in a climate-controlled location, i.e., in a plastic bag not exposed
         to vapors, and in a cool location out of direct sunlight.
     13.4.6.3. Horizontal lifelines (Skylines), commonly used in aircraft hangars, wash racks,
     corrosion control or other aircraft maintenance areas, shall be designed by a qualified
     person as defined in 29 CFR 1910.66, Appendix C, Personal Fall Arrest System, Section
     1. The number of workers attached to the lifeline at any time shall not exceed
     lifeline/anchorage point design limits.
     13.4.6.4. Full body harness.
         13.4.6.4.1. Only a full body harness shall be used with a PFAS. It shall provide
         support across the lower chest, over the shoulders and around the thighs and, when
         properly fitted and used, shall prevent the worker falling out of the harness should a
         fall occur. While working on or near exposed energized electrical equipment
         operating at 50 volts or more the safety harness worn over arc flash rated protective
         clothing shall be arc flash rated IAW UFC 3-560-01 and ASTM F887-05. Warning:
         Body belts may not be used.
         13.4.6.4.2. The lanyard attachment point shall be located in the center of          the
         wearer‘s back near shoulder level or above the wearer's head.
         13.4.6.4.3. Harness load bearing straps shall have a minimum width of 1-5/8 inch
         and be finished to prevent fraying.
130                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      13.4.6.5. Lanyards. Lanyards of synthetic materials shall have free ends lightly seared to
      prevent unraveling. Knots weaken a lanyard and shall not be used in lanyard end
      terminations. Lanyards (and shock absorbers) subjected to impact loading from a falling
      person or weight test shall be removed from service and replaced. Refer to paragraphs
      13.4.6.11.8 and 13.5.3.4 for additional guidance. Warning: Wire rope or rope covered
      wire lanyards, some plastics (such as nylon) and wet lanyards are conductive and shall
      not be used near electrical hazards.
      13.4.6.6. Energy (shock) absorber components. Each PFAS may include a shock
      absorber. Shock absorbers shall be designed so activation is obvious, i.e., ripped stitches,
      telltale strips visible, etc. Shock absorbers with any signs of activation shall be removed
      from service.
      13.4.6.7. Anchorage. Anchorages for lifelines and lanyards shall support at least a 5000
      pound load for each person connected to the anchorage. Anchorages not meeting this
      rating can be used as part of a complete PFAS which maintains a safety factor of at least
      two (2) and is under the supervision of a qualified person. Only one PFAS shall be
      connected to an anchorage point unless specifically certified for more.
      13.4.6.8. Connectors. PFAS connectors (hardware used to connect a system together
      such as a carabiner, D-ring, O-ring, oval ring, snaphook, etc.) shall be drop forged,
      pressed or formed steel or made of equivalent materials and purchased new with a clean
      finish, free of rust, scale or foreign matter.
         13.4.6.8.1. Snaphooks and carabineers shall be self-closing, self-locking, designed to
         take 2 consecutive and deliberate actions (double locking) to open and load rated for
         at least 5000 pounds.
         13.4.6.8.2. Connectors shall withstand a 5000 pound load multiplied by the
         maximum number of PFAS attached to the connector and shall not be exposed to
         sharp edges, abrasive surfaces or physical hazards, such as thermal, electrical or
         chemical sources.
      13.4.6.9. Fall arrester components. Fall arresters, as in self retracting lifelines, shall be
      automatic in their locking (fall stopping) function. Workers shall follow manufacturer‘s
      instructions to test the locking mechanism after connection to their harness/lanyard. Self-
      retracting lifeline systems will be positioned over the worker as the worker moves.
      Pulling on the lifeline cable to provide more slack without moving the overhead carrier
      (trolley) will result in a pendulum swing should the worker fall. Energy shock absorbers
      will not be used in conjunction with deceleration devices (self-retracting lifelines).
      13.4.6.10. PFAS Inspection. (Note: Inspections shall be documented IAW TO 00-25-
      245, Testing and Inspection Procedures, Personnel Safety and Rescue Equipment.)
         13.4.6.10.1. PFAS users shall comply with TO 00-25-245 and manufacturer‘s
         instructions for inspection, maintenance, cleaning and storage. If defects or damage to
         equipment or inadequate maintenance of equipment is found, the equipment shall be
         immediately tagged ―unserviceable‖ and removed from service. Unserviceable PFAS
         will be destroyed to prevent further use.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       131



        13.4.6.10.2. Workers shall inspect their PFAS prior to the first use of the day and/or
        shift for mildew, wear, damage and other deterioration.
        13.4.6.10.3. Supervisors shall ensure all PFAS components receive a thorough
        inspection at least quarterly. This inspection shall be documented and maintained for
        at least one year.
        13.4.6.10.4. Supervisors shall maintain manufacturer‘s instructions and performance
        testing information for PFASs used by their workers.
        13.4.6.10.5. PFAS components requiring removal from service:
           13.4.6.10.5.1. Components with illegible or absent markings.
           13.4.6.10.5.2. Absence of any element which affects equipment form, fit or
           function.
           13.4.6.10.5.3. Defective or damaged hardware elements including distorted
           hooks or faulty hook springs, tongues unfitted to shoulder buckles, loose or
           damaged mountings, non-functioning parts, cracks, sharp edges, deformation,
           corrosion, chemical attack, excessive heating, alteration, deterioration, contact
           with acids or other corrosives and excessive wear.
           13.4.6.10.5.4. Defects or damage to straps or ropes including fraying, unsplicing,
           unlaying, kinking, knotting, roping, broken or pulled stitches, excessive
           elongation, chemical attack, excessive soiling, cuts, tears, abrasion, mold, undue
           stretching, alteration, needed or excessive lubrication, excessive aging, contact
           with heat, fire or corrosives, internal or external deterioration and excessive wear.
           13.4.6.10.5.5. Lanyards after an impact load and shock absorbers with any signs
           of activation.
     13.4.6.11. PFAS Use, Maintenance and Storage Requirements.
        13.4.6.11.1. Equipment shall be stored and maintained IAW the manufacturer‘s
        instructions. Unique issues, due to local conditions, shall be addressed with the
        manufacturer.
        13.4.6.11.2. Equipment shall be stored to preclude damage from environmental
        factors such as heat, light, excessive moisture, dirt, oil, chemicals and their vapors or
        other degrading elements.
        13.4.6.11.3. Rope, synthetic materials and rope-covered lanyards shall not be used
        while welding, cutting, or in areas with sharp edges, open flames or excessive heat.
        13.4.6.11.4. Lanyards, connectors and lifelines subject to damage by work operations
        such as welding, chemical cleaning and sandblasting, shall be protected or other
        securing systems used.
        13.4.6.11.5. Lanyards shall be kept as short as practical to minimize free fall
        distance, shall not permit a vertical fall of more than six (6) feet as specified in
        paragraph 13.2, nor allow the worker to contact any lower level or obstruction.
 132                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          Lanyards shall not be attached to a dropline, lifeline or fixed anchorage point in a
          manner that reduces lanyard strength.
          13.4.6.11.6. It is common practice to interchange lanyards, connectors, lifelines,
          deceleration devices and body harnesses; however, components from different
          manufacturers may not be safely interchangeable. Always check with the
          manufacturer(s) before mixing components.
          13.4.6.11.7. Only use PFAS components for their designed purposes.
          13.4.6.11.8. PFAS components subjected to impact loading shall be immediately
          removed from service and replaced.
          13.4.6.11.9. Supervisors shall ensure workers using a PFAS can be properly rescued
          or can rescue themselves should a fall occur. Availability of rescue personnel, ladders
          or other rescue equipment shall be determined prior to using a fall arrest system.
          Warning: Hanging in a harness for an extended period of time can be fatal. IAW
          ANSI Z359.4, Safety Requirements for Assisted-Rescue and Self-Rescue Systems,
          Subsystems and Components, prompt rescue means getting to the subject within six
          (6) minutes after an accidental fall.
       13.4.6.12. Electricians. Fall protection equipment for electricians shall be Arc Thermal
       Performance Value (ATPV) rated IAW UFC 3-560-01.
   13.4.7. Equipment For Un-stepped Communications Poles. All Communications-Electronic
   (C-E) field technicians required to climb un-stepped communications poles will use the
   squeeze pole fall protector (pole choker) arrest system. Users of the pole chokers will comply
   with TO 00-25-245 and manufacturer‘s instructions regarding inspection, maintenance,
   cleaning and storage of PFAS equipment. Refer to Chapter 30 for additional guidance.
13.5. Supervisor, Qualified Person and Competent Person Fall Protection Duties and
Responsibilities. A supervisor, who is designated in writing, shall be responsible for
procurement of fall protection/fall arrest systems required by the organization or shop. The
supervisor shall be familiar with the shop‘s typical work assignments and fall protection/fall
arrest systems required for each operation. The supervisor shall ensure each worker/qualified
person/competent person using a fall protection/fall arrest system is trained and evaluated on
proper use, application and inspection of fall protection/fall arrest systems.
   13.5.1. The supervisor shall:
       13.5.1.1. Conduct JSA, as required.
       13.5.1.2. Prepare, review, approve and modify plans for fall protection and prevention,
       rescue and evacuation and training lessons.
       13.5.1.3. Ensure initial and recurring training and training evaluations are provided to
       shop personnel on fall protection/fall arrest systems prior to initial use. Refer to
       paragraph 13.6 for additional guidance.
       13.5.1.4. Ensure appropriate design, selection, certification, evaluation and analysis of
       fall protection/fall arrest systems and equipment.
       13.5.1.5. Prepare and accomplish self-inspection checklist annually IAW TO 00-25-245.
       Checklist shall include all relevant information on fall protection/fall arrest systems, i.e.,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        133



       proper care, maintaining and inspection of fall protection/fall arrest systems equipment,
       training program, etc. The self-inspection shall be documented and maintained until the
       next self-inspection is performed.
       13.5.1.6. Conduct fall protection/fall arrest system inspections and support accident
       investigations.
   13.5.2. A qualified person, typically an engineer, shall: identify and certify anchorage points
   on facilities and structures. Help develop and evaluate fall protection plans. Assist
   supervisors and competent persons in selecting fall protection systems.
   13.5.3. The competent person, typically an experienced worker, shall:
       13.5.3.1. Assist supervisors and qualified persons in determining feasibility and safety of
       fall protection for workers and selecting appropriate fall protection systems.
       13.5.3.2. Perform on site observations of job work conditions, use of fall protection
       systems and correct application of the fall protection plan.
       13.5.3.3. Identify hazardous conditions and suspend work tasks until hazards are
       corrected. 13.5.3.4. Inspect PFAS equipment to determine if components subjected to
       impact loading are undamaged. If damaged, remove and replace.
13.6. Training. Workers/competent persons shall be trained and evaluated prior to using any
PFAS. Training shall include: methods of use, application, inspection and storage, as well as any
manufacturer‘s recommendations; application limits, proper anchoring and tie-off techniques,
estimation of free fall, deceleration and total fall distance to prevent striking a lower level;
applicable fall protection, fall prevention, rescue and evacuation plans. Recurring training shall
be conducted annually, when work conditions change or new fall arrest systems are used, and
documented on AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, AF IMT 55, Employee Safety
and Health Record, or civilian equivalent, IAW AFI 91-202.
13.7. Rescue Plan. Each fall protection plan shall include a rescue plan. PFAS use shall be
suspended if a means to rescue a fallen worker is not available.
   13.7.1. Self rescue by a fallen worker may be possible, depending on location and work
   conditions. However, the supervisor shall ensure a rescue plan is in place to rescue workers
   should they be injured or unable to self rescue.
   13.7.2. Workers suspended in a full body harness often lose consciousness after a fall. This
   is caused by restrictions in blood flow to the extremities caused by the harness. The rescue
   plan must ensure a rescue can be affected very quickly to prevent permanent injury or death.
   13.7.3. When potential for serious injury exists due to a fall and no threat requires immediate
   movement of the fallen worker, the worker should remain in place and encouraged to remain
   still while emergency services personnel are called to assist.
13.8. Where non-Air Force professional rescue agencies cannot promptly rescue a fallen
AF worker, the installation Ground Safety office and Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight
may establish training for fire protection workers and adequate installation personnel as
authorized or competent rescuers. Training shall be documented IAW AFI 91-202.
 134                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Coordination with the installation Fire Chief is required to determine if the FES Flight is able to
support a fall rescue operation.
13.9. Fall Protection Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in
this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements
exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local
safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual
location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   13.9.1. Are workers provided fall protection when exposed to falls of four (4) feet or more?
   Reference 13.2.2
   13.9.2. Are active and passive means of fall protection considered before using procedural
   controls? Reference 13.3.1.3
   13.9.3. Has a JSA been performed and coordinated with the installation safety office prior to
   the use of procedural controls for protecting workers from falls? Reference 13.3.1.3
   13.9.4. Are all PFAS components marked to indicate compliance with ANSI Z359.1.?
   Reference 13.4.6.2
   13.9.5. Are wire rope, rope covered wire lanyards, plastics (such as nylon) and wet lanyards
   prohibited where an electrical hazard may be present? Reference 13.4.6.5
   13.9.6. Can anchorage connectors withstand a 5000 pound load for each PFAS connected?
   Reference 13.4.6.7
   13.9.7. Do workers inspect their PFAS prior to each use for mildew, wear, damage and other
   deterioration? Reference 13.4.6.10.2
   13.9.8. Does the supervisor ensure all PFAS components receive a thorough inspection at
   least quarterly and keep the record of inspection for at least one year? Reference 13.4.6.10.3
   13.9.9. Are PFAS components subjected to impact loading immediately removed from
   service and not be used again until inspected and determined by a competent person to be
   undamaged and suitable for reuse? Reference 13.4.6.11.8
   13.9.10. Are workers/competent persons trained and evaluated on the fall protection/fall
   arrest system prior to use? Reference 13.6
   13.9.11. Is recurring fall protection training conducted annually, when work conditions
   change or when new fall protection/fall arrest systems are procured? Reference 13.6
   13.9.12. Is a rescue plan included in each fall protection plan to assure prompt rescue of
   fallen workers? Reference 13.7
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         135



                                           Chapter 14

                      PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE)

14.1. General Information. This chapter covers the use, selection, care and maintenance for
protective equipment for eyes, face, head and extremities, protective clothing, respiratory devices
and protective shields/barriers. For issues involving Radio Frequency or laser radiation, refer to
AFOSH 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, and AFOSH Standard 48-139,
Laser Radiation Protection Program.
14.2. Job Safety Analysis (JSA). Refer to paragraph 1.5 and AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
Mishap Prevention Program for additional guidance on JSA.
14.3. Responsibilities.
   14.3.1. Commanders and/or Functional Managers shall ensure all work centers conduct and
   document hazard assessments to determine if hazards are present and take actions necessary
   to protect workers from injury, illness or death. They shall ensure PPE is not used as a
   substitute for elimination, substitution, e.g., substitution of safer chemicals, engineering
   controls (ventilation, isolating or guarding against hazards), or administrative controls
   (worker rotation, training), when possible. Only after engineering and administrative controls
   have been applied to the maximum extent practicable, or until controls can be installed, will
   PPE be the primary means to protect personnel against hazards. Note: If PPE is required for
   the performance of a task, then it shall be provided by the commander and/or functional
   manager. Subordinates are not responsible for providing their own PPE.
   14.3.2. Supervisors shall conduct and document hazard assessments in each workplace
   where their employees are performing duties. If PPE is required, the supervisor shall ensure
   that PPE is provided, used and maintained in a sanitary serviceable condition.
       14.3.2.1. Supervisors are responsible for maintaining discipline with regard to personnel
       wearing properly fitted PPE, when required, and shall consult the installation Ground
       Safety office and BE concerning the selection and use of PPE. Note: All personnel must
       have job safety training. Supervisors shall document job safety training for all personnel.
       Refer to AFI 91-202 for further information.
       14.3.2.2. Supervisors shall contact BE when workplace operations change to schedule
       appropriate evaluation when new hazardous materials are introduced, processed or
       procedures are changed, or engineering controls are modified or added.
   14.3.3. Air Force personnel shall:
       14.3.3.1. Promptly report safety, fire and health hazards to supervision or management.
       14.3.3.2. Comply with PPE requirements.
       14.3.3.3. Ensure provided PPE is used when required, adjusted to properly fit and
       maintained in a sanitary and serviceable condition.
       14.3.3.4. Notify their supervisors if they wear contact lenses. This information is vital to
       emergency medical personnel who may need to remove a lens from the individual‘s eye.
 136                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       14.3.3.5. Notify their supervisors in advance if they have a medical condition or are
       taking medications that could interfere with their safe performance of assigned duties.
       14.3.3.6. Notify supervisors of any changes in medical status which might impair their
       ability to safely wear PPE (e.g., weight changes, facial scarring, dental changes,
       disfigurement, etc.).
14.4. General Requirements.
   14.4.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). PPE shall be used whenever there are hazards
   that can do bodily harm through absorption, inhalation or physical contact. This equipment
   includes respiratory protective devices, special clothing and protective devices for the eyes,
   face, head, torso and extremities. All PPE shall be approved for the work performed and shall
   be maintained in satisfactory condition. The installation Ground Safety office and BE shall
   be consulted. BE is responsible for selecting respirator and filter types, initial training and fit
   testing for users requiring respiratory protection. Supervisors shall instruct personnel in the
   use and care of this equipment. Training shall be documented IAW AFI 91-202. Refer to
   OSHA 29 CFR 1910.133., Eye and Face Protection, and AFOSH Standards 48-137,
   Respiratory Protection Program, and 48-20, Occupational Noise & Hearing Conservation
   Program (HCP), for additional guidance and information.
   14.4.2. Eye and Face Protection. (Note: Protective eye and face devices must comply with
   ANSI Z87.1., Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection Devices.) Personnel
   shall be provided and use appropriate eye or face protection, as directed by applicable
   technical data or as determined by an appropriate risk assessment, when exposed to hazards
   from flying particles, molten metal, liquid chemicals, corrosives, caustics, chemical gases,
   vapors or ionizing and non-ionizing radiation. This requirement also applies to management,
   supervisors and visitors within the hazardous area. Selection shall be based on the kind and
   degree of hazard present. Note: Eye protection is required to protect against small particles
   of falling debris whenever a task is above eye level and the worker must look up into the area
   being worked on.
       14.4.2.1. Protective equipment must meet the following minimum requirements:
          14.4.2.1.1. Provide adequate protection against the particular hazards for which they
          are designed.
          14.4.2.1.2. Be reasonably comfortable when worn under designated conditions.
          14.4.2.1.3. Fit snugly without interfering with movement or vision of wearer.
          14.4.2.1.4. Be durable.
          14.4.2.1.5. Be capable of being disinfected (unless disposable items are used).
          14.4.2.1.6. Be easily cleaned.
          14.4.2.1.7. Be kept clean and in good repair.
       14.4.2.2. Supervisors shall ensure eye and face protection properly fits their employees
       before use in hazardous area.
       14.4.2.3. Eye and face protection must have the manufacturer‘s identification clearly
       marked on the equipment. Etching is not allowed on the lenses of safety glasses. Safety
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        137



     glasses from manufacturers already meet ANSI Z87.1 requirements. If not, return to
     manufacturer prior to use.
     14.4.2.4. When limitations or precautions are indicated by the manufacturer, they shall
     be transmitted to the user and strictly observed.
     14.4.2.5. Metal framed glasses shall be secured with a cord or strap to prevent them from
     falling into energized circuitry.
     14.4.2.6. Safety spectacles are designed with special sturdy frames. Normal street frames
     with safety lenses are not acceptable substitutes and shall not be worn as a substitute for
     safety spectacles.
     14.4.2.7. Prescription safety spectacles shall only be fitted by qualified optical personnel.
     14.4.2.8. Eye goggle headbands that are slack, worn out, sweat soaked, knotted or
     twisted shall be replaced when they no longer hold the goggles in the proper position.
     14.4.2.9. Employees who wear prescription lenses shall be provided eye protection that
     incorporates the prescription in its design, or shall wear eye protection that can be worn
     over the prescription lenses. The protective equipment must not interfere with the
     wearer‘s vision or proper position of the protective equipment.
     14.4.2.10. Contact lenses alone do not provide eye protection and shall not be worn in
     eye hazard work environments without the use of appropriate safety eyewear.
        14.4.2.10.1. If an individual who must wear corrective lenses uses spectacle inserts
        with a full-face piece respirator, the spectacle inserts for the respirator shall be
        purchased by the government using a prescription provided by the user.
        14.4.2.10.2. If an individual who must wear corrective lenses elects to wear contact
        lenses with any respirator, the contact lenses shall be purchased by the individual.
        14.4.2.10.3. Some vapors and gases can penetrate contact lenses, and possibly get
        trapped between the lens and eye, and cause serious harm to the worker. Supervisor
        and worker should contact BE to evaluate the potential hazards associated with the
        assigned task and make a decision on the appropriate eyewear.
     14.4.2.11. When working with potentially injurious light radiation, affected employees
     shall wear PPE with filtered lenses that have a shade number appropriate to the protection
     required. Refer to Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, for additional information.
     14.4.2.12. Face shields shall only be used as secondary eye and face protection in areas
     where splashing, rather than hazardous impact, is the problem. In the case of primary
     protection, other protective devices such as safety goggles shall be worn. Refer to 29
     CFR 1910.133., for additional information.
     14.4.2.13. Pitted or scratched lenses that reduce visibility shall be removed from service
     and not used.
     14.4.2.14. Dirty lenses can reduce vision and contribute to a mishap. Workers shall clean
     lenses as frequently as necessary to maintain good vision.
     14.4.2.15. Previously used PPE shall be disinfected before reissue to another worker.
138                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      14.4.2.16. Workers shall maintain and disinfect eye and/or face protection equipment
      IAW the following instructions:
         14.4.2.16.1. Several methods for disinfecting eye-protective equipment are
         acceptable. The most effective method is to disassemble the goggles or spectacles and
         thoroughly clean all parts with soap and warm water. Carefully rinse all traces of soap
         and replace defective parts with new ones. Swab thoroughly or immerse all parts for
         10 minutes in a solution of germicidal deodorant fungicide. Remove parts from
         solution and suspend in clean place after air drying at room temperature or with
         heated air. Do not rinse after removing parts from the solution because this will
         remove the germicidal residue.
         14.4.2.16.2. Ultraviolet disinfecting equipment or spray type disinfecting solutions
         may be used in conjunction with the washing procedure.
  14.4.3. Head Protection. Personnel working in areas where there is a potential for injury
  from falling or flying objects, bumping head against a fixed object or electrical shock or
  burns shall be provided and use protective helmets. Typical examples of these areas are
  construction sites and warehouses. Protective helmets must comply with ANSI Z89.1.,
  Personal Protection – Protective Headwear for Industrial Workers, and 29 CFR 1910.135.,
  Head Protection.
      14.4.3.1. Safety Helmets (Hard Hats). Commanders, supervisors and team members shall
      ensure all those working on or near underground or aerial installation, construction and
      certain maintenance-related jobs wear an approved hard hat at all times. Specifically, it
      shall be worn while working construction, all Red Horse-type building construction,
      working on or around poles, overhead structures, vaults, manholes, excavations,
      demolitions and tower and antenna construction jobs. The chinstrap shall be worn during
      work aloft. Refer to paragraph 14.4.3.2 for additional guidance on chinstraps. These
      safety helmets (hard hats) provide protection from impact and penetration of falling
      objects and from high-voltage electric shock and burns. Main helmet components consist
      of a protective shell, inside suspension system designed to act as an energy-absorbing
      mechanism and a chinstrap to secure the helmet to the head. The crown strap shall form a
      cradle to support the helmet on the wearer‘s head. The distance between the top of the
      head and the underside of the shell shall be adjusted to the manufacturer‘s requirement
      for the particular helmet being used. Any part of the helmet that comes into contact with
      the wearer‘s head must not irritate the skin.
         14.4.3.1.1. ANSI Safety Helmet Classification.
             14.4.3.1.1.1. Type I (Impact Type). Type I helmets reduce the force of impact
             from a blow to the top of the head.
             14.4.3.1.1.2. Type II (Impact Type). Type II helmets reduce the force of impact
             from a blow received off center or to the top of the head.
             14.4.3.1.1.3. Class G. (Electrical – General). Class G helmets reduce the danger
             of contact exposure to low voltage conductors.
             14.4.3.1.1.4. Class E (Electrical). Class E helmets are intended to reduce the
             danger of exposure to high voltage conductors.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      139



           14.4.3.1.1.5. Class C (Conductive). Class C helmets do not provide protection
           against contact with electrical conductors.
        14.4.3.1.2. Color Identification. Safety helmets shall not be painted, as certain paints
        may hide cracks or defects in the outer shell and destroy or degrade the insulating
        characteristics of the shell. Helmets are manufactured in a wide variety of colors and
        units shall purchase helmets manufactured in a color that meets their particular
        requirement rather than painting them. Colored helmets shall meet the requirements
        of ANSI Z89.1.
        14.4.3.1.3. Identification Markers. Affix identification markers on shells without
        making holes through the shell and without the use of any metal parts or metallic
        labels. (Holes could cause the helmet to fail the electrical insulation test and degrade
        the impact design of the helmet.) Note: Helmet markings shall allow the wearer to
        identify the type of helmet by looking inside the shell for the manufacturer, ANSI
        designation and class. For example: Manufacturer‘s Name, ANSI Z89.1., and
        Applicable Type and Class designations.
        14.4.3.1.4. Use of Decals. Decals on safety helmets are only authorized if approved
        by the unit‘s MAJCOM, DRU or FOA, and with the following restrictions:
           14.4.3.1.4.1. Decals shall be limited to unit or MAJCOM emblems and the
           individual‘s name. Note: Decals may also possess a composite took kit (CTK)
           identification/tracking number.
           14.4.3.1.4.2. Decals or emblems shall be stick-on type only, no more than three
           (3) inches in nominal diameter.
           14.4.3.1.4.3. Names shall be stick-on with each letter no more than 1/2 inch by
           1/2 inch.
        14.4.3.1.5. Inspection. Inspect safety helmets prior to each use. Any of the following
        defects is cause for immediate removal from service:
           14.4.3.1.5.1. Suspension systems with evidence of material cracking, tearing,
           fraying or other signs of deterioration.
           14.4.3.1.5.2. Any cracks, perforations of brim or shell, deformation of shell or
           evidence of exposure to excessive heat, chemicals or radiation.
           14.4.3.1.5.3. Any accumulation of conductive material on or inside the shell that
           cannot be removed prior to use. This applies to helmets used in electrical
           hazardous environments.
        14.4.3.1.6. Maintenance. Do not place objects inside safety helmets between the shell
        and suspension device. This space is designed into the helmet so the impact force is
        not transmitted to the wearer‘s head.
           14.4.3.1.6.1. Keep safety helmets free of abrasions, scrapes and nicks, and do not
           deliberately drop, throw or otherwise abuse them because this causes them to lose
           their protective qualities. Do not store helmets in direct sunlight or where exposed
           to extreme heat as this may degrade the degree of protection offered. Note:
140                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             Shells constructed of polymer plastics are susceptible to damage from ultraviolet
             light and gradual chemical degradation. This degradation first appears as a loss of
             surface gloss called chalking, and with further deterioration, the surface will begin
             to flake away.
             14.4.3.1.6.2. Do not drill ventilation holes in safety helmets.
             14.4.3.1.6.3. Shells shall be scrubbed with a mild detergent and rinsed in clear
             hot water (approximately 140 degrees Fahrenheit [F]). After rinsing, carefully
             inspect the shell for any signs of damage. Dry with clean soft cloths or air dry. If
             the use of a solvent is necessary to remove tars, paints, oils or other materials, the
             manufacturer shall be consulted since some solvents may damage the shell.
      14.4.3.2. Chinstraps. Chinstraps shall be made of nonconductive material not less than
      12.7 mm (1/2 inch) in width. An adjustable chinstrap is designed to fit under the chin to
      secure the helmet to the head. Safety helmets are of little use if they do not fit securely on
      the head and remain in place when impacted by a falling object. The chinstrap shall be
      used when working on elevated surfaces where there is a possibility of the hard hat
      falling off and impacting workers on the lower level.
      14.4.3.3. Bump Caps. Bump caps are constructed of lightweight materials and provide
      minimal protection against bumps or lacerations to the head. They do not afford adequate
      protection from high impact forces or penetration by flying or falling objects and shall
      not be used as a substitute for hard hats. Their use shall be determined by supervisors, in
      conjunction with the installation Ground Safety office.
      14.4.3.4. Hair Protection.
         14.4.3.4.1. Men and women who work around chains, belts, rotating devices, suction
         devices, blowers, etc., shall cover their hair, especially long hair, to prevent it being
         caught in moving equipment. While such equipment is normally guarded, long hair
         can fit between the mesh of guards and be drawn into the moving parts.
         14.4.3.4.2. The length of hair which poses a hazard varies with the operation
         performed and the control measures used.
         14.4.3.4.3. The supervisor, being most knowledgeable of the operation, shall
         determine what constitutes an acceptable hair length. Normally, hair longer than 4
         inches and in close proximity to moving components shall be considered hazardous.
         However, the supervisor may request the installation Ground Safety office assistance.
         14.4.3.4.4. Bandannas, disposable caps, hairnets and turbans may be used, providing
         they cover the hair completely and do not themselves present a hazard to the wearer.
         Note 1: The effect of long hair shall be considered when conducting a workplace
         JSA. Note 2: Flight line excluded, i.e., these items cannot be worn on the flight line
         due to a potential foreign object damage (FOD) hazard.
  14.4.4. Hearing Protection. Exposure to high noise levels can cause hearing loss or
  impairment, in addition to physical and psychological stress. Specifically designed protection
  may be required, depending on the type of noise encountered and the auditory condition of
  the employee. AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation
  Program, is the primary Air Force directive on hazardous noise exposure policies,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          141



  responsibilities and procedures, including hearing protective device information. Contact BE
  for information on the Air Force Hearing Protection Program. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-
  20 for additional guidance and information.
  14.4.5. Respiratory Protection. IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection
  Program (RPP), BE, as the OPR for the Air Force RPP, recommends/approves all respiratory
  protection devices and shall be consulted on respiratory protection required for specific shop
  activities and job site(s), if required. AFOSH Standard 48-137 and 29 CFR 1910.134.,
  Respiratory Protection, provides guidance on control of occupational diseases caused by
  breathing air contaminated with harmful dusts, fogs, fumes, mists, gases, smokes, sprays,
  vapors or in oxygen-deficient environments. Operations that generate hazardous dusts, such
  as those that contain lead, cadmium, beryllium and asbestos, may require use of protective
  clothing to prevent injury and spread of contamination. At locations where neither BE nor
  occupational or environmental health personnel are readily available, supervisors shall
  contact the support medical facility or the next higher headquarters for assistance with
  respiratory protection guidance. OSHA has expanded standards for many of these chemicals
  and they direct strict workplace compliance to include identifying regulated areas. Consult
  with BE on any operation that generates dust to include aircraft and parts sanding.
  14.4.6. Torso Protection. The torso is the largest exposed area of the body. A variety of
  protective clothing is available to protect personnel from heat, hot metals, liquids, impacts,
  cuts, corrosives, caustics and radiation. Items such as vests, jackets, aprons, coveralls and full
  body suits have been specifically designed for this purpose. Supervisors must consider the
  hazards involved with an operation before selecting the proper protective equipment, which
  may be a combination of several different pieces of PPE. For example, cloth coveralls protect
  wood workers against minor cuts and abrasions; however, coveralls alone would be
  inappropriate for operating a table saw. The addition of a leather apron and eye protection
  would be more appropriate. Note: A back support belt is designed to provide lower lumbar
  and abdominal muscle support when lifting. However, there is no definitive proof that back
  support belts serve any protective function; therefore, the Air Force does not recognize back
  support belts as PPE. Back support belts are only worn with supervisory approval and proper
  training of safe lifting techniques. They shall not be relied upon solely to protect the back
  from injury. Back support belts should be unfastened when the individual is not presently
  involved in a lifting motion, to prevent the possibility of muscle atrophy from prolonged
  usage.
  14.4.7. Hand and Arm Protection. When an employee‘s hands or arms are exposed to
  hazards, such as skin absorption of harmful substances, severe cuts, lacerations, abrasions,
  punctures, chemical burns or harmful temperature extremes, appropriate hand or arm
  protection shall be provided and used. Sleeves, padded arm protectors, hand pads and other
  items shall be worn to protect the hands and arms when hot or sharp materials are handled.
  There is a wide assortment of gloves, hand pads, sleeves and wristlets for protection against
  various hazardous situations. Before purchasing any protective equipment, contact BE, who
  will evaluate the hazard and provide the necessary specifications such as material type,
  thickness, and coverage area, then ensure the manufacturer's recommended use for the glove
  matches the particular application and anticipated hazards involved. Supervisors shall select
  appropriate hand protection based on the characteristics required for the task to be performed,
142                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  dexterity required, conditions present, duration of use, frequency, physical stresses,
  limitations of protective clothing and degree of exposure to identified hazards.
      14.4.7.1. Multi-Use Gloves. These gloves are generally worn to protect the hands from
      injuries caused by handling sharp or jagged objects, wood or similar hazard-producing
      materials. These gloves are usually made of cloth material, such as cotton flannel, with
      chrome leather palms and fingers or synthetic coating. All-leather gloves are also
      acceptable. Note: Supervisors unable to find appropriate glove(s) in the Air Force
      inventory, must use proper Air Force channels to procure PPE from outside sources.
      Before purchasing gloves or any protective clothing (outside Air Force sources), the
      supervisor shall obtain manufacturer documentation which indicates the equipment meets
      the appropriate test standards for the hazards anticipated.
      14.4.7.2. Selection of Gloves for Protection against Chemical Hazards. Chemical
      protective gloves shall be worn by personnel working in battery shops or where acids,
      alkalis, organic solvents and other harmful chemicals are handled. Refer to the TO, JSA
      and BE evaluation for assistance in selecting the proper glove.
         14.4.7.2.1. Toxic properties of the chemicals used must be determined and taken into
         consideration when selecting the proper protective gloves. Example: Some chemicals
         cause local effects on the skin or pass through the skin and cause systemic effects.
         14.4.7.2.2. A glove shall be selected on the basis of the chemical component with the
         shortest breakthrough time, since it is possible for solvents to carry active ingredients
         through polymeric materials.
         14.4.7.2.3. Chemical-resistant gloves can be used for most dry powders.
         14.4.7.2.4. Employees must be able to remove gloves in such a manner as to prevent
         skin contamination.
         14.4.7.2.5. Contaminated PPE that cannot be decontaminated shall be disposed of in
         a manner that protects employees from exposure to hazards. Functional managers
         shall ensure disposal of contaminated PPE is consistent with applicable
         environmental regulations. Reusable PPE that can be decontaminated can be stored in
         sealed ziplock type bags.
  14.4.8. Electrical Workers‘ Clothing and Equipment (Refer to AFI 32-1064, Electrical
  Safety Practices).
      14.4.8.1. Insulated Protective Equipment. Personnel who work on energized high voltage
      circuits or power supply lines shall wear electrical workers‘ nonconductive rubber gloves
      (with leather outer gloves) as prescribed by TOs, manufacturer‘s manuals or other safety
      directives. Other insulating clothing and equipment, such as blankets, hoods, sleeves,
      matting and line tools designed for the voltage levels encountered, shall be used as
      required.
         14.4.8.1.1. Insulating equipment shall be inspected for damage before each day's use
         and immediately following any incident that can reasonably be suspected of causing
         damage. Insulating gloves shall be given an air test along with the inspection.
         14.4.8.1.2. Insulating equipment with any of the following defects will not be used:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      143



            14.4.8.1.2.1. A hole, tear, puncture or cut.
            14.4.8.1.2.2. Ozone cutting or checking.
            14.4.8.1.2.3. An embedded foreign object.
            14.4.8.1.2.4. Any swelling, softening, hardening or sticky texture or loss of
            elasticity.
            14.4.8.1.2.5. Any other defect that damages the insulating properties.
         14.4.8.1.3. Insulating equipment found to have defects that might affect its insulating
         properties shall be removed from service and returned for testing.
         14.4.8.1.4. Insulating equipment shall be cleaned as needed to remove foreign
         substances.
         14.4.8.1.5. Insulating equipment shall be stored in a location and manner as to
         protect it from light, temperature extremes, excessive humidity, ozone and other
         injurious substances and conditions.
     14.4.8.2. Electrical Equipment.
         14.4.8.2.1. Each item shall be clearly marked with proper Class number and Type (I
         or II). The Class numbers identify the design requirements of gloves, blankets and
         sleeves made of rubber. Refer to Table 14.1 for the rubber insulating voltage
         requirement for each class. Material used for non-ozone-resistant equipment (gloves)
         other than matting shall be marked Type I. Material used for ozone-resistant
         equipment (gloves) other than matting shall be marked Type II.
         14.4.8.2.2. Electrical protective equipment shall be maintained in a safe, reliable
         condition.
         14.4.8.2.3. Maximum use voltages shall conform to those listed in Table 14.1
     14.4.8.3. Arc-Flash Resistant Clothing. A flash hazard analysis (FHA) shall be
     performed for all Air Force operations, including aircraft maintenance operations,
     exposing personnel to energized parts at 50 or more volts IAW NFPA 70E, Electrical
     Safety in the Workplace, Section 130.3., and UFC 3-560-02, Electrical Safety. Protective
     clothing required, if any, shall be based on the FHA performed.
  14.4.9. Selection of Gloves for Protection against Electrical Shock or Burn. Electrical
  workers‘ gloves are designed to insulate workers from shock, burns and other electrical
  hazards. These gloves shall NOT be the only protection provided and shall never be used
  with voltages higher than the insulation rating of the gloves. Workers shall ensure gloves
  being used have been tested IAW this standard.
     14.4.9.1. Rubber protective gloves shall never be used without leather outer protective
     gloves, also referred to as leather gauntlets.
     14.4.9.2. Only seamless rubber insulating gloves shall be used.
     14.4.9.3. Gloves shall be marked clearly and permanently on the cuff portion with the
     name of the manufacturer or supplier, type, size, voltage class and class color.
144                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      14.4.9.4. Markings shall be non-conducting and not impair the insulating qualities of the
      glove.
      14.4.9.5. Type II material (gloves, blankets and sleeves) is equipment other than matting
      which has been designed to be ozone-resistant. Material used for Type II insulating
      equipment shall be capable of withstanding an ozone test with no visible effects. The
      ozone test shall reliably indicate that the material will resist ozone exposure in actual use.
      Any visible signs of ozone deterioration of the material, such as checking, cracking,
      breaks or pitting, is evidence of failure to meet the requirements for ozone-resistant
      material.
      14.4.9.6. Gloves shall be capable of withstanding the alternating current (AC) proof test
      voltage specified in Table 14.2 after a 16-hour water soak.
      14.4.9.7. Procedure for testing gloves.
         14.4.9.7.1. Glove (right side out) shall be filled with tap water and immersed in water
         to a depth IAW instructions in Table 14.3
         14.4.9.7.2. Water shall be added to or removed from the glove, as necessary, so the
         water level is the same inside and outside the glove.
         14.4.9.7.3. When the AC test is used on gloves, the 60-hertz proof test current may
         not exceed the values specified in Table 14.2 at any time during the test.
         14.4.9.7.4. After the 16-hour water soak, the 60-hertz proof test current may exceed
         the values given in Table 14.2 by not more than 2 milliamperes. Note: If gloves do
         not pass the proof test requirements of Table 14.2, they shall not be used for
         electrical protection.
         14.4.9.7.5. Rubber protective gloves shall be visually inspected prior to each use.
         They shall be placed in glove bags and stored in a bin or locker away from tools and
         materials to prevent damage.
      14.4.9.8. Surface irregularities present on rubber goods from imperfections on forms or
      molds or inherent difficulties in the manufacturing process may appear as indentations,
      protuberances or imbedded foreign material and are acceptable under the following
      conditions:
         14.4.9.8.1. The indentation or protuberance blends into a smooth slope when the
         material is stretched.
         14.4.9.8.2. Foreign material remains in place when the insulating material is folded
         and stretches with the insulating material surrounding it.
      14.4.9.9. Rubber insulating gloves in storage shall be dielectric tested every 12 months.
      Rubber gloves that are removed from storage and issued to a worker are in active use and
      shall be tested before first issue and every six (6) months thereafter. Refer to UFC 3-560-
      01, Electrical Safety O&M, for additional requirements.
      14.4.9.10. Rubber insulating sleeves shall be dielectric tested before first issue and every
      12 months thereafter.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       145



     14.4.9.11. The supervisor shall stamp the dates of the dielectric test and issue date on the
     gloves. The supervisor shall maintain a record of all electrical equipment test dates and
     establish procedures to control its issue, inspection, testing and use.
     14.4.9.12. Rubber insulating equipment meeting the following national consensus
     standards are deemed to be in compliance with this instruction.
         14.4.9.12.1. ASTM D120, Specification for Rubber Insulating Gloves.
         14.4.9.12.2. ASTM D178, Specification for Rubber Insulating Matting.
         14.4.9.12.3. ASTM D1051, Specification for Rubber Insulating Sleeves. Note:
         These standards contain specifications for conducting AC and direct current (DC)
         proof tests, breakdown test, water soak procedure and the ozone test mentioned in this
         standard.
  14.4.10. Foot and Leg Protection—Safety Shoes, Toe Caps, Leggings, etc. Protective
  footwear shall be provided and worn when there is a reasonable possibility of foot injuries
  from heavy or sharp objects and electrical and/or static electricity. Use appropriate foot
  guards, safety shoes or boots and leggings for protection of feet and legs from falling or
  rolling objects, sharp objects, molten metal, hot surfaces and wet slippery surfaces. Leggings
  protect the lower leg and feet from molten metal or welding sparks. Safety snaps permit their
  rapid removal.
     14.4.10.1. Supervisors shall identify those areas, operations and occupations which
     require protective leg or footwear. All individually issued safety footwear used in Air
     Force operations shall meet the requirements of ASTM F2412, Standard Test Methods
     for Foot Protection, and ASTM F2413, Standard Specification for Performance
     Requirements for Protective (Safety) Toe Cap Footwear.
     14.4.10.2. Safety shoes shall be sturdy and have an impact-resistant toe. Only shoes
     meeting or exceeding the ANSI Class 75 impact standard are approved for the Air Force.
     Refer to 29 CFR 1910.136., Foot Protection, for additional information. Metal insoles in
     shoes protect against puncture wounds. Additional protection, such as metatarsal guards,
     may be necessary for some job tasks. Nonskid shoes shall be worn where floors may be
     wet or slippery. Electrical hazard shoes are not designed to be a replacement for
     electrically rated matting in high voltage situations. These shoes are designed to be used
     when working on low voltage circuits and as a secondary means of protection. Note:
     When exposed to cold temperatures and foot crushing hazards, if cold weather footwear
     which also provides crushing protection is not available, personnel shall be issued
     footwear which protects against the possibility of frostbite.
  14.4.11. Chemical Protective Clothing. The purpose of chemical protective clothing and
  equipment is to shield or isolate individuals from chemical, physical and biological hazards
  encountered during hazardous materials operations. Many chemicals pose invisible hazards
  and offer no warning properties. It is important for employees to realize that no single
  protective clothing item can protect against all hazards. Other protective methods, such as
  engineering or administrative controls, shall be used to limit chemical contact before
  considering use of PPE.
146                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      14.4.11.1. Chemical Protective Clothing Selection. Workplace supervisors shall contact
      BE to determine the appropriate PPE for all processes.
      14.4.11.2. Ensemble Selection Factors:
         14.4.11.2.1. Hazard Consideration. Chemicals present a variety of hazards such as
         toxicity, corrosiveness, flammability, reactivity and oxygen deficiency, or a
         combination of hazards may be present.
         14.4.11.2.2. Requirements. The proper type of chemical protective clothing or
         equipment depends on job requirements, and includes requirements from TOs,
         MSDSs and manufacturer‘s recommendations.
             14.4.11.2.2.1. Check with BE before purchasing chemical protective clothing or
             equipment.
             14.4.11.2.2.2. Some chemicals require PPE made out of specific materials.
             Ensure PPE is made from specific materials designed to protect against specific
             chemicals for the duration of exposure.
      14.4.11.3. Chemical Protective Clothing Limitations—Breakthrough Time (see
      definition, Attachment 1). Chemicals allowed to remain on protective clothing or
      equipment can diffuse through the material, even if it is in storage. Chemical protective
      clothing that is reused must be cleaned before storage. In some cases it may be more cost
      effective to select chemical protective clothing with a relatively short breakthrough time
      and discard it after use.
         14.4.11.3.1. Duration of Exposure. Maximum duration of exposure to a chemical
         shall be considered when selecting chemical protective clothing.
         14.4.11.3.2. Performance Characteristics.
             14.4.11.3.2.1. Resistance to abrasions, cuts, heat, ozone and punctures or tears
             shall be considered to maintain the integrity of the material.
             14.4.11.3.2.2. Flexibility may be an important factor if inflexible equipment
             interferes with the worker‘s ability to successfully accomplish his or her task.
      14.4.11.4. Training.
         14.4.11.4.1. Supervisors shall ensure employees are trained on hazards of chemical
         protective clothing. Heat stress; physical and psychological stress; and impaired
         vision, mobility and communication significantly increase the risk of injury. Selecting
         personal protective clothing must encompass an ―ensemble‖ of clothing and
         equipment which provides both an appropriate level of protection and allows workers
         to carry out duties involving the chemicals. Over-protection as well as under-
         protection can be hazardous and shall be avoided. Refer to paragraph 1.5 for training
         documentation.
         14.4.11.4.2. Supervisors shall ensure their employees are properly trained on pre-use
         inspection, maintenance, cleaning and storage of chemical protective clothing and
         equipment.
             14.4.11.4.2.1. Pre-Use Inspection. Typical inspection procedures for chemical
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      147



            protective clothing shall include checks for imperfect seams and seals and
            discrepancies in the material coating, such as pinholes, rips and tears, surface
            cracks, malfunctioning closures and signs of deterioration. Pinholes may be
            detected by holding the material up to a light in a dark room. Gloves can be
            checked by inflating the glove to see if the glove holds the pressure or emits
            bubbles under water. Manufacturer‘s manuals shall be consulted for specific
            inspection recommendations.
            14.4.11.4.2.2. Cleaning. Chemical protective clothing that is reused shall be
            cleaned before storage. Residual chemicals on chemical protective clothing can
            permeate the material during storage and reduce the useful life of the clothing. It
            can also contaminate the inside of the clothing.
            14.4.11.4.2.3. Disposal. The supervisor shall ensure chemical protective clothing
            classified as hazardous waste is correctly discarded.
            14.4.11.4.2.4. Respiratory Training Documentation. IAW AFOSH 48-137,
            Respiratory Protection Program, document respiratory training.
  14.4.12. Knee Protection. Knee pads may be used by workers who are required to kneel
  while performing most of their work or by workers with known knee problems that could be
  compounded by working in a kneeling position.
  14.4.13. Other:
     14.4.13.1. Shop supervisors shall ensure shop personnel use the protective clothing and
     equipment that will protect them from work hazards. It is the responsibility of workers to
     keep their PPE in a clean, sanitary state of repair and use the equipment when required.
     14.4.13.2. Workers shall keep their hands and face clean, change clothes and wash skin
     contaminated with solvents, lubricants or fuels, and keep hands and soiled objects out of
     their mouth. No food or drink shall be brought into or consumed in areas exposed to toxic
     materials, chemicals or industrial shop contaminants nor shall drinking water sources
     such as water fountains be located in those areas. Note: Cleaning supplies in a break
     room shall be stored in a storage locker or equivalent. After exposure to any contaminant,
     shop personnel shall wash their hands before eating or smoking. Safe drinking water shall
     be provided in or reasonably near all shops. Waste food from the lunch area shall be kept
     in a receptacle that is tightly covered and kept clean. Restrooms, provided with hot and
     cold running water, shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition. Shop personnel
     required to wear protective clothing shall be provided with change rooms equipped with
     clothing lockers having separate storage facilities for clean and soiled clothing. Clothing
     used daily and issued by the shop shall be cleaned and stored in shop lockers or fenced
     areas within the building. Clothing and protective equipment shall be inspected daily for
     satisfactory condition by using workers. In addition, supervisors or a designated
     employee shall spot check equipment and clothing. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.141.,
     Sanitation, for additional information.
     14.4.13.3. Shop supervisors shall provide on-site laundry and shower facilities IAW 29
     CFR 1910.141. and 29 CFR 1910.1000. through 1910.1052. Additionally, showers and
148                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      laundry facilities shall be provided when the installation Ground Safety office or BE
      determine an occupational hazard warrants them.
  14.4.14. Welding, Cutting and Brazing Specific PPE. Key portions of 29 CFR 1910.252.,
  Welding, Cutting and Brazing, covering protective equipment, are included here. Workers
  engaged in or exposed to welding, cutting or brazing activities shall be provided the proper
  PPE. The appropriate protective clothing required for specific welding operations varies
  with the size, nature and location of the work performed. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.132.,
  Personal Protective Equipment, and AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection
  Program, for additional guidance.
      14.4.14.1. Personal protective clothing may interfere with the body‘s heat dissipation,
      especially during hot weather or in confined spaces. Workers may need frequent breaks.
      14.4.14.2. Leg Protection. For heavy work, flame-resistant leggings or other equivalent
      means shall be used to provide additional protection for the legs.
      14.4.14.3. Hand and Arm Protection.
         14.4.14.3.1. All welders and cutters shall wear protective flame-resistant gloves. All
         gloves shall be in good repair, dry and capable of providing protection from electric
         shock by welding equipment. Insulated linings shall be used to protect areas exposed
         to high radiant energy.
         14.4.14.3.2. Cape sleeves or shoulder covers with bibs made of leather or other
         flame-resistant materials shall be worn during overhead welding, cutting or other
         operations, when necessary.
      14.4.14.4. Torso Protection.
         14.4.14.4.1. Clothing shall provide sufficient coverage and be made of suitable
         materials to minimize skin burns caused by sparks, spatter, ultra violet radiation or
         electrical shock.
         14.4.14.4.2. All outer clothing, such as coveralls, shall be reasonably free from oil
         and grease.
         14.4.14.4.3. Front pockets and upturned sleeves or cuffs shall be prohibited. Sleeves
         and collars shall be kept buttoned to prevent hot metal slag and sparks from
         contacting the skin.
         14.4.14.4.4. Durable flame-resistant aprons made of leather or suitable materials
         shall be used to protect the front of the body when additional protection against
         sparks and radiant energy is needed.
      14.4.14.5. Eye and Face Protection requirements.
         14.4.14.5.1. All welding helmets shall meet 29 CFR 1910.252. requirements.
         14.4.14.5.2. Eye and face protective equipment shall be inspected for serviceability
         prior to each use. For sanitary purposes, eye and face protectors shall not be shared by
         other employees. Helmets shall be used during all arc-welding or arc-cutting
         operations, excluding submerged arc-welding. Where the work permits, submerged
         arc-welders shall be enclosed in separate booths coated on the inside with non-
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       149



        reflective material. When two or more welders are exposed to the hazards of each
        other's welding operations, goggles shall be worn under the welder‘s helmets to
        provide protection from harmful rays and flying debris. Helpers or attendants shall be
        provided with the proper PPE, to include eye protection.
        14.4.14.5.3. Goggles or other suitable eye protection shall be used during all gas
        welding or oxygen cutting operations.
        14.4.14.5.4. All operators and attendants of resistance welding or brazing equipment,
        or while chipping slag, shall use transparent face shields or goggles, depending on the
        particular job, to protect their faces or eyes as required.
        14.4.14.5.5. Suitable tinted goggles or spectacles shall be provided for torch brazing
        operations or soldering operations. Spectacles shall be equipped with side shields.
     14.4.14.6. Specifications for PPE.
        14.4.14.6.1. Helmets and goggles shall be made of a material which is an insulator
        for heat and electricity. Helmets, face shields and goggles shall not be readily
        flammable and shall be capable of withstanding sterilization.
        14.4.14.6.2. Helmets shall be arranged to protect the face, neck and ears from direct
        radiant energy from the arc.
        14.4.14.6.3. All parts shall be constructed of a material which will not readily
        corrode or discolor the skin.
        14.4.14.6.4. Goggles shall be ventilated to prevent fogging of the lenses as much as
        practicable.
        14.4.14.6.5. Easily removed filter and cover lenses or plates shall be provided to
        protect each helmet, goggle filter lens or plate.
        14.4.14.6.6. All glass for lenses shall be tempered and substantially free from
        striae/scratches, air bubbles, waves and other flaws. Except when a lens is ground to
        provide proper optical correction for defective vision, the front and rear surfaces of
        lenses and windows shall be smooth and parallel.
        14.4.14.6.7. Lenses shall bear some permanent distinctive markings identifying the
        lens‘ source and shade.
        14.4.14.6.8. All filter lenses and plates shall meet the radiant energy transmission test
        prescribed in ANSI Z87.1, Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection
        Devices.
        14.4.14.6.9. Hand-held screens for shielding the face and eyes shall not be used since
        they may be inadvertently held in the wrong position and not provide the proper
        protection.
     14.4.14.7. Hearing Protection. Refer to paragraph 3.1.2.11 for guidance.
     14.4.14.8. Respiratory Protection. When mechanical or natural ventilation fails to reduce
     air contaminants to allowable levels or when implementation of such controls is not
     feasible, respiratory protective equipment shall be used to protect personnel from
 150                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       hazardous concentrations of airborne contaminants. Only approved respirator equipment
       shall be used. Consult BE and AFOSH Standard 48-137 for additional guidance.
       14.4.14.9. Head Protection. Caps made from flame resistant material shall be worn under
       helmets, when necessary, to prevent head burns.
14.5. Specific Requirements.
   14.5.1. Insulating matting shall be used near electrical apparatus or circuits in high voltage
   maintenance areas as an additional safety measure to protect personnel. Insulating matting
   protects against accidental shock only and shall not be depended upon for protection when
   handling energized wires and circuits. TOs 00-25-232, Control and Use of Insulating Matting
   for High-Voltage Application, and 00-25-234, General Shop Practice Requirements for
   Repair Electrical Equipment, and MIL-DTL-15562G, Matting or Sheet, Floor Covering,
   Insulating for High Voltage Application, provide information and instructions for control, use
   and marking of insulating matting. Approved electrical insulating matting is permanently
   marked IAW MIL-DTL-15562G.
   14.5.2. Upon request, the supervisor, with the assistance of the installation Ground Safety
   office, shall inspect areas with electrical facilities and determine if insulating matting is
   required for worker protection. Typical examples of areas where insulating matting is
   required include locations where potential shock hazards exist and additional resistance is
   required; floor resistance is lowered due to dampness; high voltages (above 600 volts) may
   be encountered, such as high voltage consoles; and areas with electrical repair or test benches
   (shops), motors or equipment and control panels.
   14.5.3. Cleaning shall be accomplished as often as necessary to prevent contamination,
   utilizing domestic cleaners such as carpet cleaner or any other locally approved cleaner
   required for special situations.
   14.5.4. Insulating matting shall be replaced when worn to one-half its original thickness or
   the manufacturer's suggested replacement requirements. Note: Shoes with nails or metal
   scraps in soles shall not be worn on insulating matting.
   14.5.5. Insulating matting on floors in front of and around electrical workbenches, high
   voltage cabinets, switch panels, etc., shall be of one continuous length or strip. Where
   possible, the matting shall continue 24 inches beyond the end of the equipment. Overlapping
   at corners is not required if it produces a tripping hazard. If more than one run or strip of
   matting is required, the activity supervisor shall determine the amount needed.
   14.5.6. Insulating matting shall be seamless and markings shall be non-conducting and not
   impair the insulating qualities of the equipment.
   14.5.7. Matting shall be capable of withstanding the AC proof test voltage specified in Table
   14.1
   14.5.8. The voltage test shall be applied continuously for one minute (1) on matting and
   applied continuously for three (3) minutes for equipment other than matting.
   14.5.9. Insulating matting shall not be used for nonskid applications such as walkways, hall
   runners, in front of workbenches (non-electric) or on work and test benches, etc. For these
   applications, general purpose matting shall be used. This is a low-cost matting and is
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          151



   satisfactory for use in areas where shock protection is not required. No certification for use of
   general purpose matting is required.
   14.5.10. Light Reflective Products.
      14.5.10.1. Light reflective and luminescent materials are particularly effective for
      reducing mishaps caused by poor visibility or darkness. Reflective coatings are available
      in the primary safety code colors so standard signs and markings can be made with these
      materials. Materials used must remain reflective when wet.
      14.5.10.2. Personnel exposed to a traffic environment or flight line operations during
      hours of darkness, periods of reduced visibility or as part of construction or maintenance
      activities, shall be provided and use reflective vests/accessories or shall use
      organizational clothing with sewn-on reflective tape (red or orange reflective colors
      provide better contrast in a snowy environment). Note: Personnel whose job requires
      them to perform some function in the traffic/flight line environment shall be provided
      reflective equipment to enhance their visibility. For personnel transiting this environment
      incidental to their assigned task(s), issue of reflective equipment shall be at the discretion
      of the supervisor/commander.
   14.5.11. Heat Reflective and Protective Clothing. Radiant heat is a problem in operations
   such as heat treating of metals, foundry operations and heating plants. Heat reflective
   qualities of clothing and other surfaces are considerably affected by color and surface
   characteristics. Polished metallic aluminum is an effective surface to reflect radiant heat.
   Helmets, suits, gloves and boots with this type of surface are available and shall be used
   when necessary to prevent heat stress and physical injury. Frequent breaks and drinking
   plenty of water are also critical to prevent heat-related injuries. Note: If metallic coating on
   heat reflective clothing is conductive, it shall not be worn where there is the possibility of
   electrical shock.
   14.5.12. Cold-Testing and Clothing. Protective clothing used in cold-testing or cold storage
   areas must be adequate to protect workers from hazards involved with the task and cold
   temperatures. Supervisors shall ensure JSAs conducted for this type operation identify
   protection for working in cold temperatures. Frostbite can be avoided by wearing appropriate
   protective clothing and by taking frequent breaks to warm extremities. Supervisors shall
   ensure cold weather clothing is provided when needed for work in cold temperatures.
   14.5.13. Personal Fall Arrest Systems (Safety Harnesses, Lanyards, Lifelines, and Straps).
   See Chapter 13, Fall Protection.

Table 14.1. Rubber Insulating Equipment Voltage Requirements.
                  Rubber Insulating Equipment Voltage Requirements
Class of           Maximum Use Voltage Retest (2) AC rms Retest Voltage (2) DC
Equipment          (1) AC rms                                avg.
0                  1,000                   5,000             20,000
1                  7,500                   10,000            40,000
2                  17,000                  20,000            50,000
3                  26,500                  30,000            60,000
 152                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                    Rubber Insulating Equipment Voltage Requirements
Class of              Maximum Use Voltage Retest (2) AC rms Retest Voltage (2) DC
Equipment             (1) AC rms                                        avg.
4                     36,000                      40,000                70,000
Notes:
1. The maximum use voltage is the AC voltage (rms) classification of the protective equipment
that designates the maximum nominal design voltage of the energized system that may be safely
worked. The nominal design voltage is equal to the phase-to-phase voltage on multiphase
circuits. However, the phase-to-ground potential is considered to be the nominal design voltage:
(a) If there is no multiphase exposure in a system area and if the voltage exposure is limited to
the phase-to-ground potential, or (b) If the electrical equipment and devices are insulated or
isolated or both so that the multiphase exposure on a grounded wire circuit is removed.
2. The proof test voltage shall be applied continuously for at least 1 minute, but no more than
three (3) minutes.

Table 14.2. Alternating Current (AC) Proof Test Requirements (Gloves Only).
            Alternating Current (AC) Proof Test Requirements (Gloves Only)
                              Maximum Proof Test Current, mA
Class of        Proof test      267-mm (10.5-   356-mm (14-    406-mm (16-     457-mm (18-
Equipment       Voltage rms V   in) Glove       in) Glove      in) Glove       in) Glove
0               5,000           8               12             14              16
1               10,000          ……………..         14             16              18
2               20,000          ……………..         16             18              20
3               30,000          ……………..         18             20              22
4               40,000          …………….          ………………         22              24

Table 14.3. Glove Test – Water (NOTES:
                                   Glove Test – Water
                   AC Proof Test                     DC Proof Test
Class of Glove     mm.               In.             mm.                    In.
0                  38                1.5             38                     1.5
1                  38                1.5             51                     2.0
2                  64                2.5             76                     3.0
3                  89                3.5             102                    4.0
4                  127               5.0             153                    6.0
Notes:
1. The water level is given as the clearance from the cuff of the glove to the water line, with a
tolerance of + or – 13 mm (+ or – 0.5 in.).
2. If atmosphere conditions make the specified clearances impractical, the clearances may be
increased by a maximum of 25 mm (1 in.).
14.6. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist.
It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this
chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate,
MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to
include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     153



  14.6.1. Do supervisors ensure PPE is provided, used and maintained in a sanitary,
  serviceable condition? Reference 14.3.2
  14.6.2. Do supervisors ensure that required PPE job safety training is documented as
  required by AFI 91-202? Reference 14.3.2
  14.6.3. Do supervisors advise workers it is mandatory to comply with PPE requirements on-
  and off-duty? Reference 14.3.3.2
  14.6.4. Do workers notify their supervisors if they have a known medical condition or are
  taking medications that could affect their ability to safely perform a hazardous task or
  operation? Reference 14.3.3.5
  14.6.5. Are workers provided appropriate eye or face protection when exposed to hazards
  from flying particles, molten metal, liquid chemicals, corrosives, caustics, chemical gases,
  vapors or potentially injurious radiation? Reference 14.4.2
  14.6.6. Do management, supervisors and visitors wear appropriate PPE while within a
  hazardous area? Reference 14.4.2
  14.6.7. Are protective helmets provided for and used by workers exposed to injury from
  falling or flying objects, bumping head against a fixed object or electrical shock or burns?
  Reference 14.4.3
  14.6.8. Do protective helmets have the manufacturer‘s name, ANSI designation and the class
  identified inside the shell? Reference 14.4.3.1.3
  14.6.9. Do workers who work around chains, belts, rotating devices, suction devices,
  blowers, etc., cover their hair to prevent it being caught in machinery? Reference 14.4.3.4.1
  14.6.10. Is specifically designed hearing protection provided to workers who need it IAW
  AFOSH Standard 48-20? Reference 14.4.4
  14.6.11. Is BE contacted for advice on the proper respirator protection to use prior to
  exposing personnel to a potentially hazardous atmosphere? Reference 14.4.5
  14.6.12. Is appropriate hand or arm protection provided when a worker‘s hands or arms are
  exposed to hazards? Reference 14.4.7
  14.6.13. Are chemical protective gloves worn by personnel handling acids, alkalis, organic
  solvents and other harmful chemicals? Reference 14.4.7.2
  14.6.14. Are workers able to remove gloves without causing skin contamination? Reference
  14.4.7.2.4
  14.6.15. Is contaminated PPE that cannot be decontaminated disposed of in a manner that
  protects employees from exposure to hazards? Reference 14.4.7.2.5
  14.6.16. Is protective footwear provided and worn when there is a reasonable possibility of
  foot injuries? Reference 14.4.10
  14.6.17. Are other protective methods, such as engineering or administrative controls, used
  to limit worker contact with hazardous chemicals before considering PPE use? Reference
  14.4.11
154                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  14.6.18. Do supervisors select chemical protective clothing based on the performance
  characteristics relative to tasks performed, conditions present, duration of use and potential
  hazards identified? Reference 14.4.11.1
  14.6.19. Do supervisors review MSDS requirements, then verify proper selection of
  chemical protective clothing with BE before original issue? Reference 14.4.11.1
  14.6.20. Do personnel exposed to vehicle or aircraft traffic during hours of darkness or
  periods of reduced visibility, or as part of construction or maintenance activities, use
  reflective vests/accessories? Reference 14.5.10.2
  14.6.21. Do supervisors ensure proper cold weather clothing is provided and used for
  working in cold temperatures? Reference 14.5.12
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     155



                                        Chapter 15

                  GROUNDS, LAWN CARE AND MOWING SAFETY

15.1. General Information.
   15.1.1. Hazards.
      15.1.1.1. Foot Protection. Workers shall wear safety-toe shoes or metal toe-guards when
      operating powered push mowers or edgers. Safety-toe shoes or metal toe-guards are
      optional when using mowers equipped with an installed rear drag plate or edgers with
      nylon filament line cutters (and requirements of paragraph 15.2.1 are followed).
      However, workers shall wear shoes of sturdy construction. Open-toed sandals, tennis
      shoes constructed of cloth or canvas, etc., are not authorized for wear during mowing
      tasks.
      15.1.1.2. Eye Protection. Use suitable eye protection (safety glasses, goggles, face
      shields or a combination) when operating powered edgers or weed eaters. Appropriate
      eye protection shall be worn when mower operators are exposed to flying rocks, dirt or
      other hazards.
      15.1.1.3. Hearing Protection. Portable powered landscaping equipment usually has high-
      speed cutting edges and produces high noise levels. Workers shall wear hearing
      protection while working with or near operating hazardous noise producing equipment.
      Refer to paragraph 3.1.2.11 for guidance.
      15.1.1.4. Other. Workers may need gloves when using walk-behind mowers. In addition,
      they shall wear hard hats (e.g., IAW ANSI Z89.1, Type II helmets) when using a riding
      or towed mower around tall brush, low hanging tree limbs or other overhead hazards.
      Guard all mower discharge chutes with shields or approved grass catchers to deflect or
      stop foreign objects being thrown and to prevent operator contact with the blade. Place a
      legible safety message indicating ―CAUTION,‖ ―WARNING‖ or ―DANGER — DO
      NOT USE WITHOUT GUARD OR GRASS CATCHER IN PLACE‖ on or near the
      mower‘s discharge opening. Note: Push and self-propelled mowers manufactured IAW
      ANSI B71.1., Outdoor Power Equipment – Walk-Behind Mowers and Ride-On Machines
      with Mowers — Safety Specifications, requirements are equipped with a rear protective
      guard.
      15.1.1.5. PPE, when required, shall be selected to protect against the identified or
      potential hazard. Refer to Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and Chapter 14, Personal
      Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance. Contact the installation Ground
      Safety office or BE for further assistance.
      15.1.1.6. Training. Supervisors shall ensure workers are trained on equipment to be
      operated using manufacturer‘s instructions or JSA prior to operation of equipment.
      Supervisors will provide such instruction at time of initial assignment and refresher
      training, as needed. All training shall be documented.
 156                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       15.1.1.7. Inspection/Maintenance. The operator will inspect the equipment prior to initial
       setup and prior to use. Inspection will include all manufacturer‘s required and
       recommended inspection items to include as a minimum:
          15.1.1.7.1. Tire pressure and condition; fuel, oil coolant levels and lubrication.
          15.1.1.7.2. The operator will also ensure machine guards are properly installed and
          functioning.
          15.1.1.7.3. Immediately upon starting the equipment, braking devices will be
          checked to ensure proper functioning.
          15.1.1.7.4. Operators may perform minor maintenance required to ensure safe
          operation of the equipment.
   15.1.2. Requirements. All personnel shall observe all safety precautions in this chapter and
   those recommended by the manufacturers of the equipment. Always read the owner‘s manual
   before operating the equipment. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.243. Guarding of Portable Powered
   Tools, and ANSI B71.1, for further guidance on the operation and maintenance of powered
   lawn equipment.
15.2. Landscape and Grounds Maintenance.
   15.2.1. Mowing. Maintenance of installation grounds involves various sizes and types of
   lawnmowers. The two basic mower types are reel (several helical blades rotating around a
   horizontal shaft, Figure 15.1) and rotary (one or more knife like blades attached to a vertical
   shaft, Figure 15.2). They may be pushed, self-propelled, ridden or towed. The most
   significant dangers with mowers are being struck by the blade or a foreign object thrown by
   contact with blades and noise-induced hearing loss. Note 1: Ensure electric mowers,
   trimmers and attached extension cords are effectively grounded. However, listed or labeled
   portable tools protected by an approved system of double insulation, or its equivalent, need
   not be grounded. Note 2: Never use electric mowers and grass trimmers while it is raining or
   the grass is wet, excluding light dew.

Figure 15.1. Reel Mower.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      157



Figure 15.2. Rotary Mower.




   15.2.2. Powered Push Mowers.
      15.2.2.1. Powered Mowers — Walk-Behind, Riding-Rotary, Converted Sulky and Reel
      Power Lawnmowers. These mowers shall meet design specifications in 29 CFR
      1910.243., Guarding of Portable Powered Tools, and ANSI B71.1. For example:
      Deadman controls shall automatically interrupt power to a drive when the operator‘s
      actuating force is removed, and may operate in any direction to disengage the drive.
      15.2.2.2. Follow manufacturer‘s requirements during vertical or horizontal mowing of
      grades with riding or towed mowers.
         15.2.2.2.1. Prior to mowing, operators shall clear the area of all people and inspect
         for foreign objects, raised sprinkler heads, holes, soft ground, obstructions or any
         other condition that could impact the safety of the operation.
         15.2.2.2.2. Operators shall never pull the mower backwards while the engine is
         running because the safety guard on the back may lift the mower off the ground and
         injure the operator.
         15.2.2.2.3. Always mow in a horizontal direction across the face of a steep slope,
         e.g., hills or banks exceeding a 30-degree angle, and keep firm footing at all times.
         15.2.2.2.4. Stay clear of the front of self-propelled mowers during and after starting.
         Control the mower by hand pressure on the handle, not by foot pressure on the
         housing.
         15.2.2.2.5. Do not attempt to clean grass from the chute when the mower is running.
         Disconnect the spark plug lead connection, or if electrical, the power, when cleaning,
         repairing or inspecting the mower.
         15.2.2.2.6. Do not leave the mower running unattended.
         15.2.2.2.7. Edgers. Check to make sure the guard is in place. Never use the edger
         when people are in line with the blade. Use proper PPE. Always disconnect power
         when inspecting or repairing the edger.
   15.2.3. Commercial Mowing and Turf Care Equipment.
 158                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       15.2.3.1. Commercial mowing and turf care equipment (Figures 15.3 – 15.5) is used for
       mowing and maintaining areas too large or rough for residential type mowing equipment,
       but not large enough to warrant an agricultural tractor mower (described in paragraph
       15.2.4). Commercial mowing equipment shall meet requirements in ANSI B71.4., Safety
       Specifications for Commercial, Turf Care Equipment. As with residential mowers,
       operators shall read the owner‘s manual before operating the equipment.

Figure 15.3. Commercial Reel Mower.




Figure 15.4. Commercial Rotary Mower.




Figure 15.5. Commercial Zero Turn Radius (ZTR) Rotary Mower.




       15.2.3.2. If commercial mowers are used in areas where they can exceed the maximum
       slope allowed by the manufacturer, a rollover protective structure (ROPS) and seatbelt
       shall be installed on the mower and used whenever the vehicle is in motion.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      159



     15.2.3.3. While operating gang reel mowers on a slope, raise the upper reels as a
     counterbalance to prevent the mower from sliding or turning over. Ensure special
     equipment designed for steep hills or grades is available or workers can cut by hand using
     manual tools.
  15.2.4. Tractor Operations. Chapter 26, Agricultural Tractors and Implement Attachments,
  provides guidance on agricultural tractors. An agricultural tractor (Figures 15.6 – 15.8) is a
  two or four wheel drive or tracked vehicle of 20 or more horsepower designed to furnish the
  power to pull, carry, propel or drive implements designed for agriculture. (Note: While
  some commercial mowing equipment may exceed 20 horsepower, they are not designed as
  tractors and fall under guidance in paragraph 15.2.4). Also refer to 29 CFR 1926.1002.,
  Protective Frames (ROPS) for Wheel-Type Agricultural and Industrial Tractors Used in
  Construction, for additional guidance on agricultural tractors used for landscape
  maintenance. These tractors shall have ROPS and seatbelts installed and used whenever the
  vehicle is in motion and shall pass field upset tests (side and rear) specified in 29 CFR
  1926.1002, which shall be indicated by a manufacturer‘s label permanently attached to the
  ROPS.
     15.2.4.1. When pulling a load, operators will hitch only to the draw bar. The draw bar
     hitch shall be kept between 13 and 17 inches off the ground.
     15.2.4.2. When moving a front load, the load shall be kept low to the ground and the rear
     wheels as level as possible.
     15.2.4.3. Operators shall avoid holes and obstacles both on the ground and overhead.
     Speed shall be reduced with heavy loads when vision is limited or when operating on
     rough terrain.
     15.2.4.4. When stuck, operators shall try carefully to back out. Increasing engine speed
     or fastening a post to the rear wheels greatly increases the chances of tipping over
     backward; therefore, these methods shall not be used. Operators shall get help, if
     required.
     15.2.4.5. When traveling on highways, operators shall abide by local traffic rules, avoid
     travel during heavy traffic periods and check brakes for equal application for highway
     use. Lighting and markings required by local and state vehicle codes shall be used. Slow-
     moving vehicle emblems shall be used IAW 29 CFR 1910.145(d)(10).
     15.2.4.6. Grass shall not be mowed with a tractor on slopes greater than a 4-inch rise or
     drop per foot of travel. Lower gears shall be used when going downhill and the wheels
     shall be allowed to control the tractor speed.
     15.2.4.7. Sickle-bar mower (Figure 15.9) blades shall be positioned high side. They
     shall be positioned on the high side of the slope so the pull of gravity will not cause the
     tractor to turn over.
     15.2.4.8. The engine shall be shut off before the operator dismounts from the tractor or
     makes adjustments to either the tractor or towed equipment.
     15.2.4.9. Riders shall not be allowed on tractors, the draw bar or towed equipment,
     except where the equipment is specifically designed to allow riders or passengers.
 160                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       15.2.4.10. Fenders are guards for the worker‘s protection. Fenders shall be kept in place
       at all times.
       15.2.4.11. Tractors shall only be left on an incline after the engine has been turned off,
       gear shift has been placed in the park position (or the lowest gear if standard
       transmission), and the wheels have been braked and blocked. Where possible, tractors
       shall be parked on level ground.
       15.2.4.12. The power take-off guard shall always be in place.
       15.2.4.13. An operator shall dismount or mount a tractor only when it is stopped. The
       steps and platform shall be kept clean of debris.
       15.2.4.14. Hearing protection and safety-toe shoes shall be worn by the operator, when
       required. Hard hats shall be worn when operating in an overhead hazard area. BE shall be
       consulted to determine the need for respiratory protection.

Figure 15.6. Agricultural Tractor, Two Wheel Drive.




Figure 15.7. Agricultural Tractor, Four Wheel Drive.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      161



Figure 15.8. Agricultural Tractor, Tracked.




Figure 15.9. Agricultural Tractor Sickle Bar Mower, Mounts to Tractor Three Point
Hitch.




   15.2.5. General Rules for Maintaining Lawn Care Equipment.
      15.2.5.1. Always refuel with the engine off and allow the engine to cool first. Do not
      permit smoking in the area. Refuel mowers prior to use instead of refueling before storing
      inside a building. Complete refueling outside at least 25 feet away from the building and
      any open flame source.
      15.2.5.2. Use boards or ramps to load and unload mowers from vehicles.
      15.2.5.3. Ensure the engine is off and the spark plug wire is disconnected. Always shut
      off the fuel supply line when parking mowers inside or outside at the end of the duty day.
      As storage space permits, leave 1 to 3 feet separation space between parked gasoline-
      operated riding mowers.
      15.2.5.4. Clean mowers or perform other maintenance on mowers only after turning the
      engine off and disconnecting the spark plug wire.
      15.2.5.5. Follow manufacturer‘s guidelines for operation and use of mowers, tractors and
      other lawn care equipment.
      15.2.5.6. Batteries. See guidance in Chapter 31, Batteries – Maintenance, Handling and
      Storage Requirements.
15.3. Tree and Hedge Trimming.
 162                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   15.3.1. If these services are performed in-house, supervisors shall have trained/certified
   workers that are proficient IAW the AFOSH Standards, AFIs, OSHA Standards, ANSI, etc.,
   for the task at hand. Depending on the task and the JSA, training could entail climbing,
   working from a high reach lift, proper tree cutting/trimming techniques and
   procedures/requirements for working around electrical lines. Workers shall be trained for
   emergency conditions, such as adverse weather. All workers shall receive training in
   emergency rescue and life saving first aid techniques, and fall protection/prevention. All
   training shall be documented. Refer to paragraph 15.3.5 and 29 CFR 1910.269. for additional
   guidance.
   15.3.2. Two or more workers and an on-site job supervisor, fully qualified in tree
   maintenance, shall be assigned when tree maintenance involves climbing, working from a
   high reach lift and while cutting down any tree other than small low trees that would pose no
   hazards to people, facilities and utility lines. The area around trees being trimmed or cut and
   in the vicinity of operating chippers and stump grinders shall be effectively marked with
   cones, streamers or barricades and controlled to warn personnel against the danger of entry.
   15.3.3. Fall Protection. Fall protection equipment, ropes, D-rings, cutting tools, equipment
   and climbing gear shall be inspected to ensure it is in safe condition prior to each use. Any
   equipment or climbing gear that is frayed, worn, broken or defective shall be removed from
   service immediately. Each climber shall have at least one lifeline and one handline, normally
   nylon, 1/2 inch by 125 feet. At least 2 – 3/4 inch polypropylene or equivalent lines (250 feet
   long each) shall be provided for each crew. The nominal breaking strength of 1/2 inch ropes
   used for climbing shall not be less than 2,385 pounds. Climbing and safety ropes shall not be
   spliced for repair or added length. The ends of ropes shall be wrapped to prevent fraying. A
   climbing rope shall always be used, even when work is performed from a ladder or lift
   device. Refer to Chapter 13, Fall Protection, for additional fall protection requirements.
   15.3.4. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Workers involved in tree maintenance shall
   wear hard hats, gauntlet gloves, eye protection and high-top safety boots when operating
   power saws or equipment. Hearing protection shall be worn where hazardous noise level
   sources, such as power chain saws, chippers and stump grinders, are operating. Ballistic
   nylon patch leg coverings shall be used while operating power saws. Clothing for tree-
   climbing operations shall be long sleeve shirts, pants and clothing that are not baggy or loose.
   15.3.5. Supervisors shall complete (and have available for use) a JSA for both routine and
   emergency tree maintenance operations. Critical elements with serious potential to affect
   workers‘ safety, such as tree climbing, tree cutting and removal, trimming near electrical
   lines, use of chain saws, use of high-reach lifts and use of cutters or chipper equipment, shall
   be included.
15.4. Fertilizers, Herbicides and Insecticides.
   15.4.1. Fertilizers can become a combustible material and may explode if stored at
   temperatures over 130o F. When fertilizers become wet and start to decompose, they give off
   gas that will burn. Some fertilizers also give off toxic gases when burning. When fertilizer
   has started to burn, a large quantity of water shall be applied to the burning surface to
   extinguish the flame and cool the rest of the fertilizer. The installation Fire Emergency
   Services (FES) Flight shall be notified of any evidence of heating, smoking, combustion or
   fire in fertilizer. No more than 60 tons of fertilizer (mixtures containing 60 percent or more
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                             163



   by weight or ammonium nitrate) shall be stored in a location unless the location and storage
   facility have been approved by the FES Flight.
   15.4.2. When spreading fertilizer, pellets shall not be directed toward other people. If
   personnel enter the area, the spreader shall be turned off. Fertilizer spreaders shall be cleaned
   and lubricated daily. Safety glasses and gloves shall be worn during fertilizing spreading
   operations.
   15.4.3. Herbicides and Insecticides. The use of herbicides/insecticides for weed/insect
   control poses a significant potential safety and health hazard. Herbicides and insecticides
   shall be applied per manufacturer‘s instructions and used only by certified personnel. Due to
   absorptive properties of herbicides/insecticides, ensure appropriate PPE is worn as
   determined by BE‘s OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.4 and Chapter 14 for
   additional guidance.
15.5. Irrigation Systems.
   15.5.1. Trenching and Shoring. The walls and faces of irrigation system excavations and
   trenches over five (5) feet in depth, where workers may be exposed to danger of a cave-in,
   shall be guarded by a shoring system, sloping and benching system, or other equivalent
   means consistent with 29 CFR 1926, Subpart P – Excavations. Trenches less than 5-feet deep
   with hazardous soil conditions (determined by a competent person) shall also be protected.
   Refer to paragraph 25.9 and 29 CFR 1926, Subpart P – Excavations: 1926.650., Scope,
   Application and Definitions Applicable to Subpart P, 1926.651., Specific Excavation
   Requirements, 1926.652., Requirements for Protective Systems, for additional guidance.
   15.5.2. Confined Spaces. Irrigation systems located in pits shall be evaluated by the
   installation CSPT IAW Chapter 23, Confined Spaces. Potential hazards that may exist in
   irrigation pits include gases, low oxygen levels, high water levels and in some cases, high
   water pressure. Before entering an irrigation pit, oxygen and combustible gas levels shall be
   tested. Potential cracks, leaks and weak pipes may pose hazards. Upon finding any of these
   conditions, the pit shall be ventilated and worn or broken parts replaced before use of the pit
   is permitted. Before commencing repair work, the worker shall ensure water and electrical
   power have been turned off.
15.6. Grounds, Lawn Care and Mowing Safety Checklist. This is not an all inclusive
checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within
this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate,
MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to
include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   15.6.1. Are all mower discharge chutes guarded with shields or approved grass catchers and
   appropriate safety messages placed near the discharge opening? Reference 15.1.1.4
   15.6.2. Is training of all equipment operators documented? Reference 15.1.1.6
   15.6.3. Are operators aware of special precautions to be used when mowing hills or slopes?
   Reference 15.2.2.2.3
   15.6.4. Are slow moving vehicle emblems used when tractors are operated on highways?
   Reference 15.2.4.5
164                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  15.6.5. When using sickle-bar blades, do personnel always position them uphill? Reference
  15.2.4.7
  15.6.6. Are riders prohibited on tractors, the draw bar or towed equipment except when
  specifically designed for such use? Reference 15.2.4.9
  15.6.7. Are tractors left on inclines braked and blocked? Reference 15.2.4.11
  15.6.8. Is the power take-off guard in place? Reference 15.2.4.12
  15.6.9. Are a minimum of two (2) workers and an on-site supervisor assigned during tree
  maintenance involving climbing, working from high reach lift and cutting down trees other
  than small, low trees? Reference 15.3.2
  15.6.10. Are all safety related fall protection and climbing devices inspected prior to use?
  Reference 15.3.3
  15.6.11. Does each climber have at least one lifeline and one handline? Reference 15.3.3
  15.6.12. Is required PPE provided and in use by all workers involved in tree maintenance?
  Reference 15.3.4
  15.6.13. Have supervisors performed a JSA and developed local OIs for tree maintenance
  operations? Reference 15.3.5
  15.6.14. Are herbicides applied per manufacturer‘s instructions and used only by certified
  personnel? Reference 15.4.3
  15.6.15. Is required PPE used by personnel applying herbicides? Reference 15.4.3
  15.6.16. Are oxygen and combustible gas levels tested prior to entry to an irrigation pit?
  Reference 15.5.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       165



                                          Chapter 16

                       MOBILE ELEVATING WORK PLATFORMS

16.1. General Information. This chapter applies to vehicle-mounted elevating and rotating
platforms, including work platforms, fire fighting aerial devices and aircraft maintenance
equipment used for elevating workers. It also applies to all manually-propelled and self-
propelled mobile work platforms (including ladder stands) and rolling (mobile) scaffolds
(towers). In some cases, the Air Force changes the design of commercially purchased mobile
work platforms and scaffolds or builds this equipment; therefore, this chapter includes essential
information on loads, rules and requirements for design, construction and use of mobile work
platforms and scaffolds. Also refer to 29 CFR 1910.28., Safety Requirements for Scaffolding.
16.2. Hazards.
   16.2.1. Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, and AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
   Mishap Prevention Program, for further information on the JSA and job safety lesson plan.
   Note: A JSA is not required when existing guidance adequately covers all safety
   requirements of an operation or process. Examples are TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of
   Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding. Refer to AFI 91-202, Attachment 5, Job Safety
   Training Outline (JSTO), for additional guidance and information.
   16.2.2. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and Chapter 14,
   Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
   16.2.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. BE personnel perform
   occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments of industrial work processes.
   Supervisors with workplace health hazards questions should contact BE. Refer to paragraph
   2.4 for additional information.
16.3. General Requirements. The potential for worker injury, death and property damage is
reduced by proper platform and scaffold (tower) design, thorough operator training and
inspections, good equipment maintenance and supervisor enforcement of safe work practices.
Supervisors shall ensure workers are physically capable of work at high elevations. Workers, too,
must be alert to signs or symptoms from co-workers such as decreased performance, change in
attitude and/or physical changes, etc., which could lead to a mishap.
16.4. Vehicle-Mounted Elevating and Rotating Work Platforms.
   16.4.1. Procurement. Commercial aerial devices procured for Air Force fire fighting
   purposes shall conform to NFPA 1901, Standard for Automotive Fire Apparatus. All other
   aerial devices, either commercially procured or constructed by the Air Force for mission
   specific needs, shall conform to ANSI A92.2., Vehicle Mounted Elevating and Rotating
   Aerial Devices.
   16.4.2. Modifications. Modifications shall conform to ANSI A92.2. and 29 CFR 1910.67.,
   Vehicle-Mounted Elevating and Rotating Work Platforms, and shall be documented on the
   appropriate form. Authorized modifications include temporary removal of installed
   equipment not needed for a particular mission or modification to provide a new or improved
166                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  capability. Warning: Any modification which removes or defeats any safety device or
  feature on an aerial device is prohibited.
  16.4.3. Clearances.
      16.4.3.1. Electrical. Maintain the following clearances when operating aerial lifts under,
      over, by or near electric power lines.
         16.4.3.1.1. For lines rated 50 kilovolts (kV) or less, the minimum clearance between
         lines and any part of the aerial lift shall be at least 10 feet (305 centimeter [cm]).
         16.4.3.1.2. For lines rated over 50 kV, the minimum clearance between lines and any
         part of the aerial lift shall be at least 10 feet (305 cm) plus 4 inches (10 cm) for each
         kilovolt over 50 kV, or twice the length of the line insulator, but never less than 10
         feet (305 cm).
      16.4.3.2. Exceptions: Requirements in paragraph 16.4.3 do not apply if:
         16.4.3.2.1. The aerial device is insulated for the work and work is performed by
         trained communications outside plant workers, line clearance tree-trimming workers
         or exterior electric linemen.
         16.4.3.2.2. Electric power transmission or distribution lines have been de-energized
         and visibly grounded at point of work or where insulating barriers (not part of or
         attached to the aerial lift) have been erected to prevent physical contact with the lines.
         16.4.3.2.3. Insulating barriers (rated for the voltage of lines being guarded and not
         part of or attached to the vehicle or its raised structure) are installed to prevent contact
         with lines. In this instance, the clearance may be reduced to a distance within the
         designed working dimensions of the insulating barrier. Refer to UFC 3-560-01,
         Electrical Safety, O & M, for additional information.
         16.4.3.2.4. Aerial lift is insulated for voltage involved and work is performed by a
         qualified person. In this instance, the clearance between non-insulated parts of the
         aerial lift and power line may be reduced to the distance in UFC 3-560-01, Electrical
         Safety, O & M, Table 10-9.
         16.4.3.2.5. An aerial lift or equipment contacts an electrical conductor. In this
         instance, the vehicle, equipment and attachments shall be considered energized.
         Personnel standing on the ground shall not contact any part of the lift unless using
         protective equipment rated for the voltage. Refer to Chapter 30, Communications
         Cable, Antenna and Communications Systems, for additional information.
      16.4.3.3. Aircraft. When operating aerial lifts under, over, by or near aircraft, ensure
      adequate clearance is maintained to allow for slight movement of both the aircraft and
      aerial equipment caused by light winds. See paragraph 16.4.6.9.
  16.4.4. Proximity Warning Devices. Proximity warning devices may be installed on aerial
  platforms but will not release the operator from assuring safe clearance IAW paragraph
  16.4.3 Proximity warning devices are required on aerial platforms being used for aircraft
  maintenance.
  16.4.5. Inspection and Test Procedures.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           167



     16.4.5.1. Aerial ladders shall be inspected and tested annually or immediately following
     any activity when it is known, or suspected, to have been loaded beyond its maximum
     load capacity, or immediately following any repair of any ladder assembly structural or
     mechanical component. Refer to NFPA 1914, Standard for Testing Fire Department
     Aerial Devices, for inspection requirements. Inspections are the joint responsibility of the
     principal operator and vehicle mechanic qualified to perform annual inspections.
     Document inspections and tests IAW AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management. Note: Aerial
     devices used for firefighting shall be inspected and tested at least annually IAW NFPA
     1914. Qualified Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight personnel may perform many of
     the tests and inspection actions; however, it is recommended they be performed by a
     third-party testing company or the aerial device manufacturer. A record of the inspection
     and tests shall be documented IAW AFI 23-302.
     16.4.5.2. Articulating and extendible boom platforms shall be inspected and tested
     annually. Special inspections and tests shall be conducted immediately following any use
     where the work platform may have been loaded beyond the manufacturer‘s rated
     capacity, or immediately following any repair of a boom or work platform assembly
     structural or mechanical component. Refer to ANSI A92.2. for inspection requirements.
     Inspections shall be a joint effort by the principal operator and a vehicle mechanic
     qualified to perform annual inspections of the vehicle. The inspection and test shall be
     documented IAW AFI 23-302. When the personnel platform is attached to a telescoping
     derrick or crane with a rated capacity higher than that of the work platform, test
     procedures contained herein shall not apply and testing shall be accomplished IAW
     applicable technical orders (TOs) or manufacturer‘s maintenance manual.
     16.4.5.3. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.1400., Cranes and Derricks in Construction, for
     information on use of cranes or derricks to hoist personnel work platforms.
  16.4.6. Operations.
     16.4.6.1. ANSI A92.2. requires aerial device manufacturers provide manuals to dealers
     and direct sale purchasers. Air Force users shall ensure manuals are readily available
     (stored in weather resistant compartment provided by manufacturer) to workers. These
     manuals shall contain:
         16.4.6.1.1. Description, specifications and ratings of the aerial device.
         16.4.6.1.2. Operating instructions for aerial device and its auxiliary systems.
         16.4.6.1.3. Precautions relating to multiple configurations such as performing aerial
         work from a moving vehicle.
         16.4.6.1.4. Instructions regarding      routine   maintenance     and       frequency    of
         recommended maintenance.
         16.4.6.1.5. Replacement part information.
         16.4.6.1.6. Instruction markings per paragraph 16.4.6.2.
     16.4.6.2. Each aerial device shall have a clearly visible plate or plates (located in a
     readily accessible area) stating:
168                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         16.4.6.2.1. Make, model and manufacturer‘s serial number.
         16.4.6.2.2. Rated capacity.
         16.4.6.2.3. Platform height.
         16.4.6.2.4. Maximum recommended operating pressures of hydraulic and/or
         pneumatic systems.
         16.4.6.2.5. Hazards inherent in operation of an aerial device.
         16.4.6.2.6. Manufacturer‘s marking which describes the function of each control.
         16.4.6.2.7. Insulated or non-insulated. Note: Insulating aerial devices do not protect
         personnel from phase to phase or phase to ground contacts at the platform end.
         16.4.6.2.8. Qualification voltage and date of test, if applicable.
         16.4.6.2.9. Year of manufacture.
         16.4.6.2.10. Number of platforms.
         16.4.6.2.11. Category of aerial device.
         16.4.6.2.12. Manufacturer‘s rated line voltage. Where alternative configurations are
         possible, the plate will show by chart, schematic or scale the capacities of all
         combinations in their operating positions and cautions or restrictions, or both, for
         operation of all alternate or combinations of alternate configurations. These plates
         shall not be removed from the device, painted over or otherwise made unavailable for
         reference by the operator. Note: If an aerial device does not have a plate attached,
         contact the manufacturer and do not use the aerial lift until the plate is received. This
         plate shall not be removed or painted over.
      16.4.6.3. Workers required to use vehicle-mounted elevating and rotating work platforms
      shall be thoroughly trained in all aspects of the job before using this equipment. This
      shall include ―hands-on-training‖ prior to actual ―on-the-job‖ training tasks. Completion
      of operator training and specific qualification shall be documented in individual‘s
      training records (MIMICs, MIS or other data retrieval system). Reference Attachment 2,
      Minimum Mandatory Requirements for Aerial Lift Training and Training Plans. Note:
      While these requirements relate to aerial lifts, a similar level of detail is required when
      developing training plans and training personnel on other powered or potentially
      hazardous equipment.
      16.4.6.4. Before a mobile unit is moved for travel, the aerial device shall be secured in
      the specified lower traveling position (to prevent rotation) by the use of cradles or locking
      devices IAW manufacturer‘s instructions.
      16.4.6.5. The unit shall be visually inspected and lift controls tested prior to each shift or
      day‘s work to determine the unit and controls are in safe working condition. The override
      feature explained in paragraph 16.4.6.6 shall be tested at this time. IAW ANSI A92.2., a
      record of this test shall only be documented if a discrepancy was found with the unit
      during the inspection.
      16.4.6.6. Articulating and extendible boom platforms, primarily designed as personnel
      carriers, shall have both platform (upper) and lower controls. Upper controls shall be in
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          169



     or beside the platform within easy reach of the operator. In order to prevent inadvertent
     actuation of the platform boom positioning controls, operation of an unlocking device
     shall precede use of the control itself and shall be maintained simultaneously during use
     of the controls. The unlocking device may be incorporated into each control. Lower
     controls shall override upper controls. Controls shall be plainly marked with their
     function. The override mode shall prevent boom movement with the lower control station
     unattended. Lower level controls shall not be operated without permission from the
     employee in the lift, except in an emergency. Whenever a worker is in or on an elevated
     work platform, at least one person qualified to operate the equipment shall be stationed
     near the lower level control panel.
        16.4.6.6.1. Emergency Stop. The platform shall have an emergency stop control
        which will stop all platform movement. This control shall not require continuous
        operator actuation to stop movement.
        16.4.6.6.2. Outrigger Controls. Aerial device outrigger controls shall be guarded to
        protect against inadvertent operation, and shall return to neutral when released by the
        operator. These controls shall be located so the operator can see the outrigger being
        operated.
     16.4.6.7. Boom and basket load limits specified by the manufacturer shall not be
     exceeded.
     16.4.6.8. Aerial lift trucks shall not be moved with the boom elevated and personnel in
     the basket unless the lift truck is specifically designed for such operation. In all cases, the
     manufacturer‘s operating instructions shall be followed.
     16.4.6.9. Vehicle-mounted elevating and rotating work platforms shall not be used
     during high winds, thunderstorms or any other adverse or mission-limiting weather
     conditions which could endanger workers using the platform. Refer to the operator‘s
     manual or applicable TO for specified wind limits.
     16.4.6.10. Platforms other than buckets or baskets shall include a guardrail system which
     shall:
        16.4.6.10.1. Include a top rail, 42 inches high, and at least one rail midway between
        top rail and platform surface around its upper periphery. Both rails shall withstand
        300 pounds of force applied in any direction. Refer to applicable ANSI standards for
        additional information.
        16.4.6.10.2. Include toeboards on all sides of platforms. Where there is exposure to
        personnel or electrical wires below the platform, removable toeboards or the
        equivalent shall be provided. The minimum toeboard height shall be four (4) inches.
        16.4.6.10.3. Include access for personnel entering the platform in the lowered
        position. Access steps or rungs shall have a slip-resistant surface.
     16.4.6.11. A full body harness and lanyard (sized to limit free fall distance to six (6) feet
     or less, or the free fall distance permitted by the system, whichever is less) shall be worn
     by each bucket or platform occupant. Each lanyard shall be attached to a designated
 170                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       anchor point on the boom or basket. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.66., Personal Fall Arrest
       System, Appendix C (d)(1)(iv).
       16.4.6.12. Belting off to an adjacent pole, structure or equipment while working from an
       aerial lift shall not be permitted.
       16.4.6.13. Workers shall stand firmly on the basket floor, not sit or climb on edge of
       basket or use planks, ladders or other devices for a work position.
       16.4.6.14. Climber‘s equipment shall not be worn while performing work from an aerial
       lift.
       16.4.6.15. Aerial devices, including insulated aerial devices, shall not be brought into
       contact with energized or potentially energized conductors. Workers shall not rely on
       dielectric capabilities of aerial devices.
       16.4.6.16. Consult BE prior to work near suspected sources of non-ionizing radiation,
       i.e., radar and microwave equipment. Refer to Chapter 30 for additional guidance.
       16.4.6.17. Before using an aerial device, the worksite shall be surveyed for hazards, such
       as un-tamped earth fills, ditches, drop-offs and floor obstructions, debris, overhead
       obstructions and electrical conductors, weather conditions and presence of unauthorized
       persons.
       16.4.6.18. Before and during each use, the operator shall:
          16.4.6.18.1. Check for overhead obstructions and electrical conductors.
          16.4.6.18.2. Ensure load weight does not exceed manufacturer‘s rated capacity.
          16.4.6.18.3. Ensure outriggers and stabilizers are used if required by manufacturer's
          instructions.
          16.4.6.18.4. Ensure guardrails are properly installed, including bolts, pins or other
          locking devices on removable railings and attachments, and that gates are closed.
          16.4.6.18.5. Use outrigger pads when necessary to provide firm footing.
          16.4.6.18.6. Set brakes.
          16.4.6.18.7. Chock wheels before using the lift on an incline.
   16.4.7. Maintenance and Repair of Powered and/or Mobile Units:
       16.4.7.1. If deficiencies affecting safe operation are discovered during the daily operator
       inspection (or during use), the equipment shall immediately be removed from service
       until repaired. The manufacturer‘s recommended maintenance procedures shall be
       followed and tests outlined in paragraph 16.4.5 shall be conducted prior to returning an
       aerial device to service following repairs to the ladder, boom or work platform.
       16.4.7.2. All repairs shall be accomplished by qualified personnel.
16.5. Manually-Propelled and Self-Propelled Mobile Work Platform and Scaffolds
(Towers).
   16.5.1. Work platforms with work levels four (4) feet or higher and accessed by a ladder or
   stairway at an angle over 60 degrees, shall have guardrails, midrails and toeboards IAW
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          171



   paragraph 16.4.6.10 on all four (4) sides of the work platform, including work platform
   access opening.
   16.5.2. Working Loads:
       16.5.2.1. Work platforms and scaffolds shall carry their designed load under all
       conditions of use. Aircraft maintenance work platforms shall support design loads listed
       in their TOs. Parts, additions or accessories for safe use of platforms and scaffolds shall
       be part of the design.
       16.5.2.2. Specific design and construction requirements are not part of this standard due
       to the wide variety of materials and design possibilities. However, the design used shall
       produce a mobile ladder stand or scaffold that will safely hold specified loads. Materials
       selected shall be strong enough to meet test requirements and protected against corrosion
       and deterioration.
           16.5.2.2.1. The design working load of ladder stands shall be calculated based on one
           or more 250-pound persons with 50 pounds of equipment each.
           16.5.2.2.2. Scaffold design work loads shall be calculated based on:
               16.5.2.2.2.1. Light - Designed and constructed for a work load of 25 pounds per
               square foot.
               16.5.2.2.2.2. Medium - Designed and constructed for a work load of 50 pounds
               per square foot.
               16.5.2.2.2.3. Heavy - Designed and constructed for a work load of 75 pounds per
               square foot.
Note: Ladder stands and scaffolds shall support at least four (4) times the design work load.
       16.5.2.3. Mobile ladder stand and scaffold materials shall meet strength, dimension and
       weight specifications in this standard to safely support the design work load.
       16.5.2.4. Bolts or other fasteners used to assemble ladders, scaffolds and towers shall be
       large enough and in sufficient quantity at each connection to develop designed strength.
       16.5.2.5. The operator shall ensure there are no sharp edges, burrs or other hazards to
       personnel on exposed surfaces.
   16.5.3. Work Levels.
       16.5.3.1. Maximum work level height shall not exceed four (4) times the minimum or
       least base dimension (width) of any mobile ladder stand or scaffold. Where the basic
       mobile unit does not meet this requirement, suitable outrigger frames shall be used to
       obtain this least base dimension or the unit shall be tied with guy wires or braced to keep
       the unit from tipping.
       16.5.3.2. The minimum platform work level width for mobile scaffolds (towers) shall not
       be less than 20 inches. Ladder stands shall have a minimum step width of 16 inches.
       16.5.3.3. The supporting structure for the work level shall be rigidly braced, using cross
       bracing or diagonal bracing with rigid platforms at each work level.
172                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      16.5.3.4. Ladder stand steps shall have slip-resistant treads or a slip-resistant coating.
      16.5.3.5. The work level platform of scaffolds shall be wood, aluminum, plywood
      planking, steel or expanded metal, for the scaffold‘s full width, except for necessary
      openings. Work platforms shall be secured to the support structure. Planking shall be 2-
      inch (nominal) scaffold grade minimum 1,500 fiber (f) (stress grade) lumber or
      equivalent.
      16.5.3.6. Scaffold work platforms four (4) feet or higher shall have guardrails, midrails
      and toeboards IAW paragraph 16.4.6.10.
      16.5.3.7. Scaffolds shall have a climbing ladder or stairway (for access and egress)
      affixed or built into the scaffold. The ladder or stairway shall be located so it will not tip
      the scaffold. A landing platform shall be provided at intervals not exceeding 30 feet.
      16.5.3.8. Self-propelled elevating work platforms shall be in the lowered position prior
      to being moved. Manually-propelled mobile work platforms shall not be moved with
      personnel on the working platform. Tools and equipment left on the work platform while
      the unit is moved shall rest securely on the floor of the platform and be protected by a rail
      and toeboard IAW paragraph 16.4.6.10.
      16.5.3.9. Full-body harnesses shall be worn with lanyard attached to the structural
      anchor point when using self-propelled mobile work platforms (if guard rails will be
      removed) with manufacturer-installed structural anchor points and the platform elevated
      four (4) feet or more above the surface. Self-propelled work platforms manufactured
      without an approved structural anchor point shall have protective guardrails, midrails
      (when required) and toeboards installed on all open sides IAW paragraph 16.5.1. When
      within 14 inches of the work surface, i.e., aircraft and buildings, guardrails need not be in
      place on the side that is within 14 inches of a working surface. Bolts, pins or other
      locking devices shall be provided and used on all removable railings and attachments.
      16.5.3.10. Personal fall arrest equipment anchorages shall be capable of supporting at
      least 5,000 pounds (22.2 kilonewton [kN]) per worker attached, or shall be designed,
      installed, and used as part of a complete personal fall arrest system which maintains a
      safety factor of two, under the supervision of a qualified person. (See Chapter 13, Fall
      Protection, and OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.66., Personal Fall Arrest System,
      Appendix C.)
      16.5.3.11. Lanyards, ―D‖ rings, snap-hooks and all fall arrest system components shall
      sustain a minimum 5,000 pound tensile load IAW 29 CFR 1910.66., Appendix C.
  16.5.4. Operations.
      16.5.4.1. Training requirements in paragraph 16.4.6.3 also apply to all manually-
      propelled elevating aerial platforms and self-propelled elevating work platforms.
      16.5.4.2. Operators shall know the location of operating and safety manuals, including
      the manual defining dealer, owner, lessor, lessee, user and operator responsibilities on the
      aerial platform. Operators shall be familiar with and use these manuals when questions
      arise.
      16.5.4.3. Aerial platforms shall be given a visual inspection and functional test before
      use each day or at the beginning of each shift including, but not limited to, the following:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     173



        16.5.4.3.1. Operating and emergency controls.
        16.5.4.3.2. Safety devices.
        16.5.4.3.3. Personal protective devices, including fall protection.
        16.5.4.3.4. Air, hydraulic and fuel system leaks.
        16.5.4.3.5. Cables and wiring harness.
        16.5.4.3.6. Loose or missing parts.
        16.5.4.3.7. Tires and wheels.
        16.5.4.3.8. Placards, warnings and control markings.
        16.5.4.3.9. Outriggers, stabilizers and other structures.
        16.5.4.3.10. Guardrail system, including bolts, pins or other locking devices on all
        removable railings and attachments.
        16.5.4.3.11. Any special items required by the manufacturer.
        16.5.4.3.12. Inspection deficiencies shall be documented IAW applicable TO or local
        procedure for stands not covered by a TO. A visible indicator, i.e., AF Form 981,
        Out of Order, or other means shall be affixed to stands removed from service until
        repaired and returned to service.
     16.5.4.4. Refer to paragraph 16.4.6.17 for workplace inspection information.
     16.5.4.5. The operator shall ensure the following before each elevation of the platform:
        16.5.4.5.1. The aerial platform is operated on a surface within the manufacturer‘s
        limits.
        16.5.4.5.2. Outriggers, stabilizers, extendable axles or other stability enhancing
        means are used as required by the manufacturer.
        16.5.4.5.3. Guardrails are installed and access gates or openings are closed per
        manufacturer‘s instructions, including bolts, pins or other locking devices on all
        removable railings and attachments.
        16.5.4.5.4. The load and its distribution on the platform and any platform extensions
        do not exceed the manufacturer‘s rated capacity for the specific configuration.
        16.5.4.5.5. There is adequate clearance from overhead obstructions.
        16.5.4.5.6. Minimum safe approach distances to energized power lines and parts are
        maintained.
        16.5.4.5.7. The operator and all personnel on the platform wear fall protection
        devices and other safety gear, as required, at all times.
     16.5.4.6. Users shall inspect and maintain aerial platforms to ensure proper operation.
     The frequency of inspection and maintenance shall be based on the manufacturer‘s
     recommendations and compatible with operating conditions and severity of the operating
     environment. Aerial platforms not in safe operating condition shall be immediately
174                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      removed from service until repaired. A qualified person shall make repairs IAW
      manufacturer‘s recommendations. This periodic inspection shall include those
      requirements in paragraphs 16.5.4.3 and 16.5.4.5.
      16.5.4.7. Controls for manually elevated platforms shall be clearly marked for direction
      and function. Controls for platform elevating and lowering mechanisms shall be self-
      holding and readily accessible from the ground. Controls at the platform are optional.
      16.5.4.8. Upper controls of power elevated platforms shall be:
         16.5.4.8.1. Clearly marked as to direction and function;
         16.5.4.8.2. A type that automatically returns to the off or neutral position when
         released;
         16.5.4.8.3. Protected against inadvertent operation;
         16.5.4.8.4. Readily accessible to the operator;
         16.5.4.8.5. Designed to include a control that must be continuously activated for
         upper controls to function and that automatically returns to the off position when
         released.
      16.5.4.9. Aerial platforms with a powered elevating assembly shall have a clearly
      marked emergency lowering means readily accessible from ground level.
      16.5.4.10. The aerial platform shall have a readily identifiable emergency stop device at
      upper control and lower control stations that will stop powered functions and platform
      movement.
      16.5.4.11. The control system shall be designed so a single control system malfunction
      will not cause unintended platform movement.
  16.5.5. Wheels And Casters:
      16.5.5.1. Wheel and casters shall be sized to support four times the design working load.
      16.5.5.2. Scaffold casters shall have a positive wheel and (or) swivel lock to prevent
      movement. Two of the four casters on ladder stands shall swivel and be lockable.
      16.5.5.3. Screwjacks or other means for adjusting height shall be provided where
      leveling of the elevated work platform is required.
      16.5.5.4. At least two brakes, wheel locks or permanently installed jacks shall be
      operable on all mobile work platforms.
  16.5.6. Mobile Tubular Welded Frame Scaffolds:
      16.5.6.1. Scaffolds shall be designed to comply with paragraphs 16.4.1, 16.4.2 and
      16.4.4.
      16.5.6.2. Scaffold vertical members shall be properly braced by cross or diagonal braces.
      Braces shall automatically square and align vertical members so the erected scaffold is
      always plumb, square and rigid.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      175



     16.5.6.3. Spacing of panels or frames shall be consistent with loads imposed. Frames
     shall be placed one on top the other with coupling or stacking pins to provide vertical
     alignment of legs.
     16.5.6.4. Panels shall be locked together vertically by pins or equivalent if uplift can
     occur.
     16.5.6.5. Scaffold over 50 feet in height shall be erected IAW manufacturer‘s
     instructions and under the supervision of a qualified professional engineer. The
     installation civil engineering activity is the authorizing agency for scaffold erection.
  16.5.7. Mobile Tubular Welded Sectional Folding Scaffolds:
     16.5.7.1. General. Scaffolds, including sectional stairway and sectional ladder scaffolds,
     shall be designed and erected IAW paragraphs 16.4.1, 16.4.2, 16.4.4 and 16.5.6.5.
     16.5.7.2. Stairway. Each section of folding stairway scaffold shall include a stairway,
     detachable work platform and a set of pivoting and hinged folding diagonal and
     horizontal braces.
     16.5.7.3. Sectional Folding Stairway Scaffolds. These are medium duty scaffolds (light
     duty when equipped with a ―high clearance‖ base section). Note: High clearance bases
     have a greater open space so the scaffold may be placed over obstructions like machinery
     or shrubbery. When high clearance bases are used to support sectional folding stairway
     scaffolds, the entire scaffold‘s load capacity shall be reduced. Sectional folding stairway
     scaffolds shall not exceed 4 ½ feet in width and 6 feet in length.
     16.5.7.4. Sectional Folding Ladder Scaffolds. Sectional folding ladder scaffolds are light
     duty scaffolds (includes special base [open end] sections designed for high clearance over
     obstructions). For special applications, 6-foot folding ladder scaffolds, except high
     clearance base sections, shall be designed as medium duty scaffolds. A sectional folding
     ladder scaffold shall not exceed 6 feet 6 inches in width for a 6-foot long unit, 8 feet 6
     inches for an 8-foot unit, or 10 feet 6 inches for a 10-foot long unit. End frames of
     sectional ladder and stairway scaffolds shall be designed so horizontal bearers provide
     support for multiple planking levels.
  16.5.8. Mobile Tube and Coupler Scaffolds:
     16.5.8.1. Design. Units shall be designed IAW paragraphs 16.4.1, 16.4.2 and 16.4.4.
     16.5.8.2. Material. Couplers shall be made of structural type material, such as drop-
     forged steel, malleable iron or structural grade aluminum. Use of gray cast iron is
     prohibited.
     16.5.8.3. Erection of Scaffold. Refer to paragraph 16.5.6.5.
  16.5.9. Mobile Work Platforms:
     16.5.9.1. Design. Units shall be designed IAW paragraphs 16.4.1, 16.4.2 and 16.4.4.
     16.5.9.2. Base Width. The minimum base width shall conform to paragraph 16.5.3.2.
     16.5.9.3. Bracing. Rigid diagonal bracing to vertical members shall be provided.
176                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  16.5.10. Mobile Ladder Stands:
      16.5.10.1. Design. Units shall comply with applicable requirements of paragraphs 16.4.1,
      16.4.2 and 16.4.4.
      16.5.10.2. Base Width. Minimum base width shall be IAW paragraph 16.5.3.2 Maximum
      base section length shall be the total length of combined steps and top assembly,
      measured horizontally, plus 5/8 inch per step of rise.
      16.5.10.3. Steps. Steps shall be uniformly spaced, with a rise of 9 inches to 10 inches,
      and a depth of at least 7 inches. Slope of the steps section shall be 55 to 60 degrees,
      measured from the horizontal.
      16.5.10.4. Handrails. Units with more than 4 steps or 60 inches vertical height to the top
      step shall be equipped with handrails. Handrails shall be at least 29 inches high and the
      same height all along the step, measured vertically from the center of the step.
      16.5.10.5. Load design shall meet requirements of paragraph 16.5.2.2.1.
  16.5.11. Mobile Work Platforms and Ladder Stands shall:
      16.5.11.1. Meet criteria in paragraphs 16.5.9 and 16.5.10. If these mobile work platforms
      have steps, they shall meet mobile ladder stand criteria for step dimensions and handrails.
      16.5.11.2. Be maintained free of grease, oil, ice, snow, mud or any other slippery
      substance or object which could cause slips and falls. Step treads and walking surfaces
      shall be in good repair. Repair worn surfaces with suitable materials or make safe using
      abrasive or non-slip materials.
      16.5.11.3. Removable guardrails may be used on all open sides of aircraft maintenance
      platforms. Guardrails removed for material handling shall be replaced as soon as material
      handling is complete. Protective guardrails are not required at the platform entrance if
      there is a ramp or stairway (angle less than 60 degrees) IAW paragraph 16.5.1. Protective
      guardrails shall only be removed from the side(s) of the platform positioned as close as
      practical (less than 14 inches) and parallel to aircraft, building or other working surface.
      Guardrails shall be installed on all open sides if platform levels are four (4) feet or higher
      above ground or floor. Bolts, pins or other locking devices shall be provided and used on
      all removable railings and attachments. Only guardrails and toeboards meeting criteria in
      paragraph 16.4.6.10 shall be used.
      16.5.11.4. Prior to any user ascending a raised mobile platform: all locking devices (i.e.,
      pins, collars, etc.) shall be installed, hydraulic pressure shall be released, the platform
      shall be slowly lowered until locking devices are securely engaged and hydraulic pressure
      valve(s) shall be closed. If the raisable portion of the platform cannot be elevated from
      ground level, the user may ascend to that platform portion and adjust platform height.
      However, requirements for locking devices, pressure release and closing valves shall be
      met prior to starting any task or work.
         16.5.11.4.1. Ascending/descending work platform. The climbing apparatus shall be
         considered a ladder if it does not meet step dimension criteria in paragraph 16.5.10.3
         and/or the angle of the apparatus is greater than 60 degrees from horizontal. Personnel
         ascending/descending ladders shall face the ladder and maintain a firm hold on the
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       177



        ladder. Personnel ascending/descending stairs (less than or equal to 60 degrees) shall
        face the direction of travel and use hand rails as depicted in Figure 16.1.
        16.5.11.4.2. Refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall
        Openings, Fixed Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, for additional guidance on
        ladder safety.
     16.5.11.5. Mark mobile work platforms with reflective materials to the maximum extent
     authorized by appropriate TOs, such as 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention and Control,
     Cleaning, Painting, and Marking of USAF Support Equipment (SE). When not being
     transported, mobile work platforms shall be secured to prevent collision with aircraft,
     vehicles or other equipment. Designated flight line storage areas for mobile work
     platforms shall be approved by installation Ground Safety office. Refer to Chapter 24,
     Aircraft Flight Line -Ground Operations and Activities, for further guidance.
     16.5.11.6. Mobile work platforms shall be inspected by the user daily, before use. IAW
     ANSI A92.2., a record of this test shall only be documented if a discrepancy was found
     with the unit during the inspection. This inspection shall include: brakes, jacks, wheel
     locks, securing cables, locking pins, hydraulic systems, anchor connections, railings and
     removable attachments and overall equipment condition. Maintenance work stands shall
     have at least two operational brakes, locks or permanently installed jacks. At least two
     brakes shall be set and all wheel casters locked, before any maintenance is performed.
     Wheel chocks may be used in conjunction with these requirements. Vehicle chocks may
     be constructed IAW Commercial Item Specification A-A-52475 or locally manufactured
     IAW TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, section
     4.1.2. Platforms shall be locked when not in use to avoid rolling down slanted surfaces or
     being moved by wind.
     16.5.11.7. When mobile work platforms are being moved:
        16.5.11.7.1. Personnel and equipment may remain on self-propelled work platforms
        when moved if platforms are in a lowered position. Refer to paragraph 16.5.3.8.
        16.5.11.7.2. Platforms to be towed shall be equipped with hitches designed for such
        purpose.
        16.5.11.7.3. The following rules apply when platforms are towed by vehicles:
            16.5.11.7.3.1. Maximum towing speed for one maintenance stand is 10 miles per
            hour and 5 miles per hour for two or more maintenance stands. However, when
            surfaces and terrain make it necessary, speed shall be reduced accordingly.
            16.5.11.7.3.2. No more than four type B1, B4, B5 and similar small stands may
            be towed as follows: two sets of two in tandem on a double hitch or two in
            tandem on a single hitch. Type B3, J7 and similar large stands shall be towed
            singly on a center mounted hitch. Four-wheeled units shall not be towed behind
            two-wheeled units. Large pieces of AGE, when towed in tandem, shall not block
            the driver‘s vision of last item being towed.
            16.5.11.7.3.3. Safety pins shall be used to secure pintle hooks and trailer hitches.
 178                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       16.5.11.8. Mobile work platforms used where static electricity is hazardous to the work
       operation, such as fuel cell repair or refueling vehicle maintenance, shall be grounded and
       equipped with static discharge plates for personnel to dissipate accumulated static
       electricity.
       16.5.11.9. Maintain mobile work platforms and ladder stands IAW appropriate 35-series
       TOs.

Figure 16.1. Ascending/Descending Work Platform.




Note: Angle less than or equal to 60º, personnel ascending/descending stairs shall face the
direction of travel and use hand rails. If angle is greater than 60º the climbing device shall be
considered a ladder and accessed like a ladder.
16.6. Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It,
like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter.
Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs,
FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command
or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   16.6.1. Do operators of aerial lifts near electric power lines maintain clearances required by
   paragraph 16.4.3? Reference 16.4.3.
   16.6.2. Are aerial ladders inspected and tested annually? Reference 16.4.5.1
   16.6.3. Are aerial ladders inspected immediately following any repair of a structural or
   mechanical component of the ladder assembly? Reference 16.4.5.1
   16.6.4. Is NFPA 1914, Standard for Testing Fire Department Aerial Devices, used as a
   guide by the principal operator and a qualified vehicle mechanic while performing tests or
   annual inspections of aerial ladders? Reference 16.4.5.1
   16.6.5. Are articulating and extendible boom platforms inspected and tested annually?
   Reference 16.4.5.2
   16.6.6. Is ANSI A92.2., Vehicle Mounted Elevating and Rotating Work Platforms, used as a
   guide by the principal vehicle operator and a qualified vehicle mechanic while performing
   tests or annual inspections of articulated and extendible boom platforms? Reference 16.4.5.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      179



  16.6.7. Are tests and inspections of platforms recorded IAW AFI 23-302? Reference
  16.4.5.2
  16.6.8. Is the aerial device manufacturer‘s operator manual available for operator use?
  Reference 16.4.6.1
  16.6.9. Have operators of vehicle-mounted elevating and rotating work platforms been
  thoroughly trained and qualified in the use of the equipment? Reference 16.4.6.3
  16.6.10. Are work platforms equipped with guardrails, midrails and toeboards on all four (4)
  sides of the platform, including the access opening to the platform? Reference 16.5.1
  16.6.11. Is the maximum height of mobile ladder stands or scaffolds restricted to a level no
  greater than four times the least base dimension of the supporting frame? Reference 16.5.3.1
  16.6.12. Are supporting structures for work levels rigidly braced? Reference 16.5.3.3
  16.6.13. Are the steps of all ladder stands constructed of slip-resistant materials or covered
  with a slip-resistant coating? Reference 16.5.3.4
  16.6.14. Is the work level platform of scaffolds secured to the support structure? Reference
  16.5.3.5
  16.6.15. Are guardrails, midrails and toeboards installed on all scaffolding with work levels
  four (4) feet or more above ground or floor level? Reference 16.5.3.6
  16.6.16. Do supervisors ensure personnel do not ride moving manually-propelled work
  platforms? Reference 16.5.3.8
  16.6.17. Are at least two (2) of four (4) casters on ladder stands or work platforms equipped
  with positive swivel locks or wheel locks to prevent movement? Reference 16.5.5.2
  16.6.18. Are screwjacks or other suitable means for adjusting height provided when leveling
  elevated work platform is required? Reference 16.5.5.3
  16.6.19. Are at least two (2) brakes, wheel locks or permanently installed jacks operational
  on all mobile work platforms? Reference 16.5.5.4
  16.6.20. Are structural type materials used for scaffold couplers (i.e., drop-forged steel,
  malleable iron, or structural grade aluminum)? Reference 16.5.8.2
  16.6.21. Are rigid diagonal bracings provided to the vertical members? Reference 16.5.9.3
  16.6.22. Are handrails provided on mobile ladder stands that have more than four steps or 60
  inches vertical height? Reference 16.5.10.4
  16.6.23. Are protective guardrails and mid-rails (when required), installed and secured with
  bolts, pins or other locking devices on mobile work platforms and ladder stands for work four
  (4) feet or more above ground or floor? Reference 16.5.11.3
  16.6.24. Are reflective materials for marking mobile work platforms used to the maximum
  extent authorized by TOs? Reference 16.5.11.5
  16.6.25. Are work platforms secured against movement when not being transported?
  Reference 16.5.11.50
180                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  16.6.26. Are mobile work platform and/or ladder stands inspected daily before use?
  Reference 16.5.11.6
  16.6.27. Are mobile platforms and ladders used for fuel cell repair or other hazardous areas
  equipped with bonding and (or) ground connections and static discharge plates for personnel
  to dissipate accumulated static electricity? Reference 16.5.11.8
  16.6.28. Is maintenance of mobile work platforms and ladder stands accomplished as
  required by applicable 35-series TOs? Reference 16.5.11.9
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           181



                                            Chapter 17

                                         SCAFFOLDING

17.1. General Information. This chapter applies to all scaffolding used in the Air Force,
except rolling scaffolds (mobile towers), which are covered in Chapter 16, Mobile Elevating
Work Platforms. It specifies criteria for assembly, erection, storage and safe use of scaffolding.
Since the Air Force primarily uses pre-formed tubular scaffolding, construction requirements for
wooden pole scaffolding are not part of this chapter. In the event an Air Force organization must
construct a wood scaffold, the design and material specifications contained in 29 CFR 1910.28.,
Safety Requirements for Scaffolding, 29 CFR 1910 Subpart D, Walking-Working Surfaces, 29
CFR 1926 Subpart L, Scaffolds, and 29 CFR 1915.71., Scaffolds, Ladders and Other Working
Surfaces, shall be followed. Refer to Chapter 16 for information on manually-propelled mobile
ladder stands, mobile work platforms or mobile towers.
   17.1.1. Procurement. Scaffolds and support equipment for Air Force use will meet design
   and construction specifications of 29 CFR 1910.28.
17.2. Hazards and Human Factors. Elevated work platforms and scaffolds present hazards
associated with falls or falling objects. These hazards are usually the result of poorly designed
equipment or from workers erecting them improperly or using them incorrectly. Further, workers
can create hazards by building makeshift platforms, removing guardrails and toeboards, or
failing to secure tools and equipment. These hazards can be minimized by properly designing
platforms and scaffolds, by training personnel and by supervisors enforcing safe work practices.
Supervisors must also consider the physiological effects of high places on individual workers,
such as dizziness or instability. Factors such as illness, fatigue and physical deficiencies can also
contribute to mishaps.
17.3. General Requirements.
   17.3.1. Scaffolds shall be provided when work cannot be done safely from the ground or
   from solid construction and shall be constructed and erected only by qualified, trained
   personnel. When ladders are used they will conform to requirements in Chapter 7, Walking
   Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and
   Fixed Ladders.
   17.3.2. The footing or anchorage for scaffolds shall be designed to support the maximum
   intended load without settling or displacement. Unstable objects such as barrels, boxes, loose
   brick or concrete blocks shall not be used to support scaffolds or planks.
   17.3.3. Guarding requirements.
       17.3.3.1. Guardrails shall be installed on open sides and ends of platforms 4 feet or more
       (and toeboards, if 10 feet or more) above the ground or floor except:
           17.3.3.1.1. Scaffolding wholly within the interior of a building and covering the
           entire floor area of any room providing no side is exposed to a hoistway, elevator
           shaft, stairwell or other floor openings.
           17.3.3.1.2. Needle-beam scaffolds and floats used by structural iron workers.
182                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      17.3.3.2. Scaffold guarding will consist of:
         17.3.3.2.1. A guardrail of 2- by 4-inch lumber or equivalent material installed at a
         height of 36 to 42 inches above the platform.
         17.3.3.2.2. A midrail (when required in this standard) of 1- by 4-inch lumber or
         equivalent.
         17.3.3.2.3. Vertical supports installed at intervals not exceeding 10 feet.
         17.3.3.2.4. Toeboards a minimum of four (4) inches in height.
         17.3.3.2.5. A wire mesh screen shall be installed between the toeboard and guardrail
         (extending the entire length of the opening) where persons work or pass beneath the
         scaffold. The wire mesh shall be number 18-gauge US Standard wire 1/2-inch mesh
         or equivalent.
      17.3.3.3. No more than 2 workers shall be permitted on suspension scaffolds with an
      intended working load of 500 pounds. No more than 3 workers shall be permitted on
      suspension scaffolds with an intended working load of 750 pounds. Each worker shall be
      protected by a personal fall arrest system (PFAS) attached to a lifeline. The lifeline shall
      be securely attached to substantial members of the structure (not scaffold), or to securely
      rigged lines, which will safely suspend the worker in case of a fall.
  17.3.4. Scaffolds and their components shall be capable of supporting at least four (4) times
  the maximum intended load.
  17.3.5. Scaffolds shall not be altered or moved horizontally while in use or occupied.
  17.3.6. Scaffolds, their accessories and other devices prescribed in this chapter shall be
  maintained in good condition. Scaffold parts shall be inspected prior to use. If any of the
  following deficiencies are found, the scaffold shall not be used until repaired or replaced:
      17.3.6.1. Accessory or structural damage.
      17.3.6.2. Missing parts or members. (For example, braces, toeboards, guardrails,
      anchors, etc.).
      17.3.6.3. Broken, bent or rusted frames or accessories.
      17.3.6.4. Altered parts or accessories. (For example, substitution of smaller planking,
      bolts or anchors for those required).
      17.3.6.5. Broken or deteriorated lifelines or ropes and their attachments and/or
      anchorages.
      17.3.6.6. Any other conditions which would jeopardize the safety of workers. Scaffolds
      found defective shall be removed from service and tagged with a danger tag.
  17.3.7. Scaffolds shall not be loaded in excess of the designed working load.
  17.3.8. Planking shall be Scaffold Grade as recognized by grading rules for the species of
  wood used. The maximum permissible spans of 1 ¼ x 9-inch or wider planks are shown in
  Table 17.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      183



  17.3.9. Nails or bolts used in the construction of scaffolds shall be of adequate size and in
  sufficient numbers at each connection to develop the designed strength of the scaffold. Nails
  will not be subjected to a straight pull and shall be driven full length.
  17.3.10. Planking or platforms shall be overlapped (minimum 12 inches) and secured from
  movement.
  17.3.11. A ladder or equivalent safe access shall be provided.
  17.3.12. Scaffold planks shall extend beyond their end supports by not less than 6 inches or
  more than 12 inches.
  17.3.13. The poles, legs or uprights of scaffolds shall be plumb and securely and rigidly
  braced to prevent swaying and displacement.
  17.3.14. Materials being hoisted onto a scaffold shall have a tag line.
  17.3.15. Workers shall wear hard hats during erection, maintenance and teardown of
  overhead scaffolding. Protective gloves are also recommended.
  17.3.16. The clearance between scaffolds and power lines shall be as follows:
     17.3.16.1. Scaffolds shall not be erected, used, dismantled, altered or moved such that
     they or any conductive material handled on them might come close to exposed and
     energized power lines as listed in Table 17.2 and 17.3 Exception: Scaffolds and
     materials may be closer to power lines than specified in Tables 17.2 and 17.3 where such
     clearance is necessary for performance of work, and only after the utility company or
     electrical system operator has been notified of the need to work closer and the utility
     company or electrical system operator has de-energized or relocated the lines, or installed
     protective coverings to prevent accidental contact with the lines.
  17.3.17. Adverse weather conditions such as ice, snow, rain and wind can create a hazardous
  working surface. A plan shall be established addressing adverse weather conditions and
  measures to be taken to protect workers performing work under adverse weather conditions.
  The following rules shall apply to work under adverse weather. Refer to Chapter 11,
  Weather Safety, for additional information.
     17.3.17.1. Personnel shall not work on scaffolds covered with ice or snow. If the work
     surface remains slippery after ice or snow removal, it shall be sanded or otherwise treated
     to prevent workers from slipping.
     17.3.17.2. Personnel shall not work on scaffolds during storms or high winds. Due to the
     many types and uses of scaffolding, it is impractical to determine specific wind criteria
     for work stoppage. Supervisors are responsible for assessing unsafe environmental and
     climatic work conditions and will take necessary preventive measures to protect workers.
  17.3.18. Tools, materials and debris shall not be allowed to accumulate in quantities that
  could cause a hazard. When possible, containers shall be provided on scaffolds for storage of
  loose materials. Supervisors shall ensure good housekeeping practices are followed to
  prevent tripping hazards.
  17.3.19. Chemically-active environments can destroy fiber rope. Rope materials such as
  polyester, nylon and manila can be damaged when exposed to caustics and acids. When fiber
 184                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   rope is used near corrosive substances or chemicals, the manufacturer shall be consulted for
   assistance in determining the proper type rope to use.
   17.3.20. Wire or fiber rope used for scaffold suspension shall support at least six (6) times
   the intended load.
   17.3.21. The use of shore scaffolds or lean-to scaffolds is prohibited.
   17.3.22. Lumber sizes, when used in this standard, refer to nominal sizes except where
   otherwise stated.
   17.3.23. Scaffolds shall be secured to permanent structures by anchor bolts, reveal bolts or
   other equivalent means. Window cleaners‘ anchor bolts shall not be used.
   17.3.24. Special care shall be taken to protect scaffold members, including wire or fiber
   ropes, when using heat-producing processes.
   17.3.25. A covered storage area is recommended to protect scaffolding from damage and
   deterioration.
   17.3.26. Wooden parts of scaffolding shall not be painted as paint can hide defects. Clear
   varnish, lacquer, shellac or linseed oil shall be used when wood protection is needed.
   17.3.27. Individual workers shall not attempt to manually lift or move scaffold members
   which are excessively heavy, or because of their shape or size, cannot be safely handled. In
   these cases, assistance shall be obtained from other workers or mechanical handling
   equipment shall be used.
   17.3.28. Hand tools used to assemble scaffolding shall be in good condition. When powered
   hand tools are used, they shall be electrically grounded or of double insulated construction.
17.4. Tube and Coupler Scaffolds.
   17.4.1. When structural metals other than those stated in paragraphs 17.4.2, 17.4.3, and
   17.4.4 are used in scaffold construction, they must be designed to carry four (4) times the
   maximum intended load.
   17.4.2. A light-duty tube and coupler scaffold shall have posts, bearers, runners and bracing
   of nominal 2-inch outside diameter (O.D.) steel tubing. The posts shall be spaced no more
   than 10 feet along the length of the scaffold and the scaffold shall be no wider than 6 feet.
   Refer to Table 17.4 for additional guidance.
   17.4.3. A medium-duty tube and coupler scaffold shall have posts, runners and bracing of
   nominal 2-inch O.D. steel tubing. Posts shall not be spaced more than eight (8) feet along the
   scaffold. If the scaffold is six (6) feet wide, the bearer diameter must be 2 ½-inches O.D. If
   the scaffold is five (5) feet wide, the bearer diameter may be two (2) inches O.D. Refer to
   Table 17.5 for additional guidance.
   17.4.4. A heavy-duty tube and coupler scaffold shall have all posts, runners and bracing of
   nominal 2-inch O.D. steel tubing, with the posts spaced not more than 6 feet 6 inches along
   the length of the scaffold. The scaffold shall be no wider than six (6) feet.
       17.4.4.1. Tube and coupler scaffolds shall be limited in heights and working levels to
       those permitted in Table 17.6 Drawings and specifications of tube and coupler scaffolds
       greater than the limitations in Table 17.6 shall be designed by a structural or civil
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        185



      engineer. Design drawings or copies shall be made available to the installation CE for
      inspection purposes.
      17.4.4.2. Tube and coupler scaffolds shall be constructed and erected to support four (4)
      times the maximum intended loads as prescribed in Table 17.6 or as set in the
      specifications established by a structural or civil engineer.
      17.4.4.3. Posts shall be accurately spaced, as required above, erected on suitable bases
      and maintained plumb.
      17.4.4.4. Runners shall be erected along the length of the scaffold. They shall be located
      on both the inside and the outside posts at an even height. Runners shall be interlocked to
      form continuous lengths and coupled to each post. The bottom runners shall be located as
      close to the base as possible. Runners shall be placed not more than 6 feet 6 inches on
      centers.
      17.4.4.5. Bearers shall be installed transversely between posts. They shall be securely
      coupled to the posts bearing on the runner coupler. When coupled directly to the runners,
      the coupler must be kept as close to the posts as possible.
      17.4.4.6. Bearers shall be at least 4 inches, but not more than 12 inches, longer than the
      post or runner spacing. Bearers may be cantilevered for use as brackets to carry not more
      than two planks.
      17.4.4.7. Cross bracing shall be installed across the width of the scaffold at least every
      third set of posts horizontally and every fourth runner vertically. Bracing shall extend
      diagonally from the inner and outer runners upward to the next outer and inner runners.
      17.4.4.8. Longitudinal diagonal bracing shall be installed at approximately a 45-degree
      angle from near the base of the first outer post upward to the extreme top of the scaffold.
      Where the longitudinal length of the scaffold permits, bracing shall be duplicated
      beginning at every fifth post. In a similar manner, longitudinal diagonal bracing shall also
      be installed from the last post extending back and upward toward the first post. Where
      conditions preclude the attachment of this bracing to the posts, bracing may be attached
      to the runners.
      17.4.4.9. The entire scaffold shall be tied to and securely braced against the building at
      intervals not exceeding 30 feet horizontally and 26 feet vertically.
17.5. Tubular Welded Frame Scaffolds.
   17.5.1. Metal tubular frame scaffolds, including accessories such as braces, brackets, trusses,
   screw legs, ladders, etc., shall be designed and proved to safely support four (4) times the
   maximum intended load.
   17.5.2. Spacing of panels or frames shall be consistent with loads imposed.
   17.5.3. Scaffolds shall be braced by cross-bracing or diagonal braces, or both, for securing
   vertical members together laterally. The cross-braces shall be of a length which will
   automatically square and align vertical members. This will ensure the erected scaffold is
   always plumb, square and rigid. Brace connections shall be made secure.
186                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  17.5.4. Scaffold legs shall be set on adjustable bases or plain bases placed on mud sills or
  other foundations able to support the maximum intended load.
  17.5.5. The frames shall be placed one on top of the other with coupling or stacking pins to
  provide proper vertical alignment of the legs.
  17.5.6. Where uplift may occur, panels shall be locked together vertically by pins or other
  equal means.
  17.5.7. To prevent movement, the scaffold shall be secured to the building or structure at
  intervals not to exceed 30 feet horizontally and 26 feet vertically.
  17.5.8. Drawings and specifications for frame scaffolds over 125 feet in height above the
  base plates shall be designed by a structural or civil engineer. Copies of the drawings and
  specifications shall be maintained by the installation structural or civil engineer for as long as
  the scaffolding is in use.
  17.5.9. Tubular welded frame scaffolds shall be erected by competent and experienced
  personnel.
  17.5.10. Inspections shall be made of all welded frames and accessories and any
  maintenance, including painting or minor corrections authorized by the manufacturer, shall
  be made before use.
  17.5.11. Outrigger Scaffold requirements.
      17.5.11.1. Outrigger beams shall extend not more than six (6) feet beyond the face of the
      building. The inboard end of outrigger beams, measured from the fulcrum point to the
      extreme point of support, shall not be less than one and one-half times the outboard end
      in length. The beams shall rest on edge, with sides plumb, and the edges horizontal. The
      fulcrum point of the beam shall rest on a secure bearing at least six (6) inches in each
      horizontal dimension. The beam shall be secured in place against movement and braced
      at the fulcrum point against tipping.
      17.5.11.2. The inboard ends of outrigger beams shall be securely supported either by (a)
      struts bearing against sills in contact with the overhead beams or ceiling, or (b) tension
      members secured to the floor joists underfoot, or (c) by both, if necessary. The inboard
      ends of outrigger beams shall be secured against tipping. The entire supporting structure
      shall be braced in both directions to prevent any horizontal movement.
      17.5.11.3. Unless outrigger scaffolds are designed by a structural or civil engineer, they
      shall be constructed and erected IAW Table 17.7 Outrigger scaffolds designed by a
      structural and/or civil engineer shall be constructed and erected according to such design.
      Design copies shall be maintained by the installation structural or civil engineer. In the
      event the job location is off the installation, the on-site supervisor shall have a copy of the
      drawings and specifications in their possession. Copies shall be retained as long as the
      scaffold is erected.
      17.5.11.4. Planking shall be laid tight and extend to within three (3) inches of the
      building wall. Planking shall be nailed or bolted to outriggers.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         187



      17.5.11.5. Where additional working levels are supported by the outrigger method, the
      plans and specifications of the outrigger and scaffolding structure shall be designed by a
      structural or civil engineer.
17.6. Masons’ Adjustable Multiple-point Suspension Scaffolds.
   17.6.1. The scaffold shall be capable of sustaining a working load of 50 pounds per square
   foot, and loads shall not exceed that figure.
   17.6.2. The scaffold shall be provided with hoisting machines that meet requirements of
   Underwriters Laboratories or Factory Mutual Engineering Corp.
   17.6.3. The platform shall be supported by wire ropes (to conform with requirements in
   paragraph 17.3.20) suspended from overhead outrigger beams.
   17.6.4. Scaffold outrigger beams shall consist of structural metal securely fastened or
   anchored to the frame or floor system of the building or structure. Each outrigger beam shall
   be equal in strength to at least a standard 7-inch, 15.3-pound steel I-beam, be at least 15 feet
   long and not project more than 6 feet 6 inches beyond the bearing point. Where the overhang
   exceeds 6 feet 6 inches, outrigger beams shall be composed of stronger beams or multiple
   beams. They shall be installed IAW approved designs and instructions. If channel iron
   outrigger beams are used in place of I-beams, they shall be fastened together with the flanges
   turned out.
   17.6.5. Outrigger beams shall be set and maintained with their webs in a vertical position. A
   stop bolt shall be placed at each end of every outrigger beam. The outrigger beam will rest on
   suitable wood-bearing blocks.
   17.6.6. Scaffold parts such as bolts, nuts, fittings, clamps, wire ropes, and outrigger beams
   and their fastenings shall be kept in good working condition and shall be inspected before
   each installation and daily thereafter while the scaffold is in use.
   17.6.7. The free end of suspension wire ropes shall be equipped with proper size thimbles
   and be secured by splicing or other equivalent means. The running ends shall be attached to
   the hoisting drum and at least four (4) turns of rope will remain on the drum.
   17.6.8. Where a single outrigger beam is used, the steel shackles or clevises, with which the
   wire rope are attached to the outrigger beams, shall be placed directly over the hoisting
   drums.
   17.6.9. The scaffold platform shall be equal in strength to at least 2-inch planking. For
   maximum planking spans, see Table 17.1
   17.6.10. When workers are working on the scaffold and an overhead hazard exists, overhead
   protection shall be provided not more than nine (9) feet above the platform. It shall consist of
   2-inch planking or material of equivalent strength laid tight.
   17.6.11. Scaffolds shall only be installed or moved under the control of the on-site job
   supervisor or a structural or civil engineer.
17.7. Two-Point Suspension Scaffolds (Swinging Scaffolds).
188                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  17.7.1. Two-point suspension scaffold platforms shall not be less than 20 inches nor more
  than 36 inches wide. The platform shall be fastened to the hangers by U-bolts or by other
  equal means.
  17.7.2. The hangers of two-point suspension scaffolds shall be made of wrought iron, mild
  steel or other material having a cross-sectional area capable of sustaining four (4) times the
  maximum intended load. They shall be designed with a support for the guardrail,
  intermediate rail and toeboard.
  17.7.3. When hoisting machines are used on two-point suspension scaffolds, they shall be
  tested and approved by Underwriters Laboratories or Factory Mutual Engineering Corp.
  17.7.4. Roof irons or hooks shall be of wrought iron, mild steel or other material of proper
  size and design, securely installed and anchored. Tiebacks of 3/4-inch manila rope or
  equivalent will serve as a secondary method of anchorage. Tiebacks shall be installed at right
  angles to the face of the building, whenever possible, and secured to a structurally sound
  portion of the building.
  17.7.5. Two-point suspension scaffolds shall be suspended by wire, synthetic or fiber ropes.
  Wire and fiber ropes will conform to paragraphs 17.3.19 and 17.3.20.
  17.7.6. Blocks for fiber ropes shall be of standard 6-inch size, consisting of at least one
  double and one single block. The sheaves of blocks shall fit the size of rope used.
  17.7.7. Wire, synthetic and fiber ropes, slings, hangers, platforms and other supporting parts
  shall be inspected before every installation. Daily inspections shall be made while the
  scaffold is in use.
  17.7.8. No more than 2 workers shall be permitted to work at one time on suspension
  scaffolds with an intended working load of 500 pounds. No more than 3 workers shall be
  permitted to work at one time on suspension scaffolds with an intended working load of 750
  pounds. Each worker shall be protected by a PFAS. The system shall be attached to
  substantial members of the structure (not the scaffold), or to securely rigged lines, which will
  safely suspend the worker in case of a fall.
  17.7.9. Two-point suspension scaffolds shall be lashed to the building or structure to prevent
  swaying. Window cleaners‘ anchors shall not be used for this purpose.
  17.7.10. The platform of every two-point suspension scaffold shall be one of the following
  types:
      17.7.10.1. The side stringer of ladder-type platforms shall be clear straight-grained
      spruce or material of equal strength and durability. Rungs shall be of straight-grained
      oak, ash or hickory, at least 1 – 1/8 inch in diameter, with 7/8 inch tenons mortised into
      the side stringers at least 7/8 inch. Stringers shall be tied together with tie rods not less
      than 1/4 inch in diameter, passing through the stringers and riveted up tight against
      washers on both ends. The flooring strips shall be spaced not more than 5/8 inch apart
      except at the side rails where the space may be one inch. Ladder-type platforms shall be
      constructed IAW Table 17.8
      17.7.10.2. Plank-type platforms shall be made of not less than nominal 2- by 8-inch
      unspliced planks. They shall be cleated together on the underside starting six (6) inches
      from each end. The intervals in between cleats shall not exceed four (4) feet. The plank-
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        189



      type platform shall not extend beyond the hangers more than 18 inches. A bar shall be
      fastened to the platform at each end to prevent its slipping off the hanger. The span
      between hangers for plank-type platforms shall not exceed 10 feet.
      17.7.10.3. Beam platforms will have side stringers of lumber not less than 2- by 6-inches
      set on edge. The span between hangers shall not exceed 12 feet when beam platforms are
      used. Flooring shall be supported on 2- by 6-inch crossbeams, laid flat and set into the
      upper edge of the stringers with a snug fit, at intervals of not more than four (4) feet,
      nailed in place. Flooring shall be of 1- by 6-inch material properly nailed. Floorboards
      shall not be spaced more than 1/2 inch apart.
17.8. Stone Setters’ Adjustable Multiple-Point Suspension Scaffolds.
   17.8.1. The scaffold shall support a working load of 25 pounds per square foot and shall not
   be overloaded. Scaffolds shall not be used for storage of stone or other heavy materials.
   17.8.2. The hoisting machine and its supports shall be of a type tested and listed by
   Underwriters Laboratories or Factory Mutual Engineering Corp.
   17.8.3. The platform shall be fastened to the hangers by U-bolts or other equal means.
   17.8.4. The scaffold unit shall be suspended from metal outriggers, iron brackets, wire rope
   slings or iron hooks which will safely support the maximum intended load.
   17.8.5. Outriggers, when used, shall be set with their webs in a vertical position, anchored to
   the building or structure and provided with stop bolts at each end.
   17.8.6. The scaffold shall be supported by wire rope conforming with paragraph 17.3.20 and
   suspended from overhead supports. Free ends of suspension wire ropes shall be equipped
   with proper size thimbles, secured by splicing or other equal methods. Running ends shall be
   securely attached to the hoisting drum, and at least four (4) turns of rope shall remain on the
   drum at all times.
   17.8.7. When two (2) or more scaffolds are used on a building or structure, they shall not be
   bridged one to the other, but shall be maintained at even height with platforms butting
   closely.
   17.8.8. Scaffolds shall only be installed or moved under the control of the on-site supervisor
   IAW designs and instructions of the structural or civil engineer.
17.9. Single-Point Adjustable Suspension Scaffolds.
   17.9.1. Scaffolding, including power units or manually operated winches, shall be tested and
   listed by Underwriters Laboratories or Factory Mutual Engineering Corp.
   17.9.2. Power units may be either electrically or air motor driven.
   17.9.3. Power-operated gears and brakes shall be enclosed. In addition to the normal
   operating brake, power driven units must have an emergency brake which engages
   automatically when the normal speed of descent is exceeded.
   17.9.4. Guards, midrails and toeboards will completely enclose the cage or basket.
   Guardrails shall be no less than 2 by 4 inches or the equivalent installed no less than 36
   inches nor more than 42 inches above the platforms. Midrails shall be 1 by 6 inches or the
 190                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   equivalent, installed equal distance between the guardrail and the platform. Toeboards shall
   be a minimum of four (4) inches in height. Each worker shall be protected by a PFAS. The
   system shall be attached to substantial members of the structure (not the scaffold), or to
   securely rigged lines, which will safely suspend the worker in case of a fall.
   17.9.5. The hoisting machines, cables and equipment shall be regularly serviced and
   inspected after each installation and every 30 days thereafter.
   17.9.6. The units may be combined to form a two-point suspension scaffold. This type
   scaffold shall comply with paragraph 17.7.
   17.9.7. The supporting cable shall be straight for its entire length. The operator shall not
   sway the basket or fix the cable to any intermediate points to change the original path of
   travel.
   17.9.8. Equipment shall be maintained and used IAW the manufacturer‘s instructions.
   17.9.9. Suspension methods shall conform to applicable provisions of paragraphs 17.6 and
   17.7.
17.10. Boatswains’ Chairs. The chair seat shall not be less than 12 by 24 inches and of 1-inch
thickness. The seat shall be reinforced on the underside to prevent the board from splitting.
   17.10.1. The two (2) fiber rope seat slings shall be of 5/8-inch diameter, reeved through the
   four (4) each seat holes so as to cross each other on the underside of the seat. Seat slings shall
   be of at least 3/8-inch wire rope when a worker is conducting a heat-producing process such
   as gas- or arc-welding.
   17.10.2. A PFAS shall be in place and used to protect the worker when using a boatswain‘s
   chair. The lifeline shall be attached to substantial members of the structure (not the scaffold),
   or to securely rigged lines, which will safely suspend the worker in case of a fall.
   17.10.3. The tackle shall consist of correct size ball bearing or bushed blocks and properly
   spliced 5/8-inch diameter first-grade manila rope, or other rope which will satisfy the criteria,
   e.g., strength and durability of manila rope.
   17.10.4. Roof irons, hooks or the object to which the tackle is anchored shall be securely
   installed. Tiebacks, when used, shall be installed at right angles to the face of the building
   and fastened to a chimney.
17.11. Carpenters’ Bracket Scaffolds.
   17.11.1. Brackets shall consist of a triangular wood frame not less than 2 by 3 inches in
   cross section or of metal or equal strength material. Each part shall be properly fitted and
   securely jointed. Each bracket shall be attached to the structure by one of the following
   methods:
       17.11.1.1. A bolt no less than 5/8 inch in diameter shall extend through the inside of the
       building wall.
       17.11.1.2. A metal stud attachment device.
       17.11.1.3. Welding to steel tanks.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        191



       17.11.1.4. Hooking over a well-secured and strong supporting member. Brackets shall be
       spaced no more than 10 feet apart.
   17.11.2. No more than two persons shall occupy any given 10 feet of a bracket scaffold at
   any one time. Tools and materials shall not exceed 75 pounds.
   17.11.3. The platform shall consist of at least two 2- by 9-inch nominal size planks
   extending not more than 18 inches or less than 6 inches beyond each end support.
17.12. Bricklayers’ Square Scaffolds. The squares shall not exceed five (5) feet in width and
five (5) feet in height. Parts shall not be less than those specified in Table 17.9
   17.12.1. The squares shall be reinforced on both sides of each corner with 1- by 6-inch
   gusset pieces. They shall also have braces 1 by 8 inches on both sides running from center to
   center of each part, or other methods to obtain equal strength and rigidity.
   17.12.2. The squares shall be set not more than five (5) feet apart for medium duty scaffolds,
   and not more than eight (8) feet apart for light duty scaffolds. Bracing, 1 by 8 inches,
   extending from the bottom of each square to the top of the next square, shall be provided on
   both front and rear sides of the scaffold.
   17.12.3. Platform planks shall be at least 2- by 9-inch nominal size. The ends of the planks
   shall overlap the bearers of the squares and each plank shall be supported by not less than
   three squares.
   17.12.4. Bricklayers‘ square scaffolds shall not exceed three (3) tiers in height and shall be
   constructed and arranged so one square will rest directly above the other. The upper tiers will
   stand on a continuous row of planks laid across the next lower tier and be nailed down or
   otherwise secured to prevent displacement.
17.13. Horse Scaffolds. Horse scaffolds shall not be constructed or arranged more than two
tiers and shall not exceed 10 feet in height. The parts of the horses shall not be less than those
specified in Table 17.10 Horses shall be spaced not more than five (5) feet apart for medium
duty and not more than eight (8) feet apart for light duty.
   17.13.1. When arranged in tiers, each horse shall be placed directly over the horse in the tier
   below.
   17.13.2. On scaffolds arranged in tiers, the legs shall be nailed down to the planks to prevent
   movement and each tier shall be cross braced.
   17.13.3. Horses or parts which have become weak or defective shall not be used.
17.14. Needle Beam Scaffolds.
   17.14.1. Metal beams or equal material used in scaffolding shall conform to paragraph
   17.3.4.
   17.14.2. Ropes or hangers shall be provided for supports. The span between supports on the
   needle beam shall not exceed 10 feet for 4- by 6-inch timbers. Rope supports shall be
   equivalent in strength to 1-inch diameter first-grade manila rope.
 192                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   17.14.3. Ropes shall be attached to the needle beams by a scaffold hitch or a properly made
   eye splice. The loose end of the rope shall be tied by a bowline knot or by a round turn and
   one-half-hitch.
   17.14.4. The platform span between the needle beams shall not exceed eight (8) feet when
   using 2-inch scaffold plank. For spans greater than eight (8) feet, platforms shall be designed
   based on requirements for the special span. The overhang of each end of the platform planks
   shall not be less than 1 foot and not more than 18 inches.
   17.14.5. When one needle beam is higher than the other, or when the platform is not level,
   the platform shall be secured against slipping.
   17.14.6. Unattached tools, bolts and nuts used on needle beam scaffolds shall be kept in
   suitable containers.
   17.14.7. One end of a needle beam scaffold may be supported by a permanent structural
   member conforming to paragraph 17.3.4.
   17.14.8. Each person working on a needle beam scaffold 20 feet or more above the ground
   or floor and working with both hands shall be protected by a PFAS. The lifeline shall be
   securely attached to substantial members of the structure (not the scaffold), or to securely
   rigged lines, which will safely suspend the worker in case of a fall.
17.15. Plasterers, Decorators and Large Area Scaffolds. Plasterers, decorators, lathers and
ceiling workers inside scaffolds shall be constructed IAW the general requirements set forth for
independent wood pole scaffolds. Platform planks shall be laid with the edges close together.
When independent pole scaffold platforms are erected in sections, the sections shall be provided
with connecting runways equipped with guardrails. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.28. for additional
information.
17.16. Interior Hung Scaffolds.
   17.16.1. Interior hung scaffold shall be hung or suspended from the roof structure or
   substantial ceiling beams.
   17.16.2. The suspended steel wire rope shall conform to paragraph 17.3.20.
   17.16.3. For hanging wood scaffolds, the following minimum nominal size material is
   recommended:
       17.16.3.1. Supporting bearers 2 by 9 inches on edge.
       17.16.3.2. Planking 2 by 9 inches or 2 by 10 inches, with a minimum span of 7 feet for
       heavy duty and 10 feet for light or medium duty.
       17.16.3.3. Steel tube and coupler parts may be used for hanging scaffolds providing both
       types of scaffold are designed to sustain a uniformly distributed working load equivalent
       to heavy duty scaffold loads with a safety factor of four (4).
       17.16.3.4. When a hanging scaffold is supported by wire rope, the rope shall be wrapped
       at least twice around the supporting members and twice around the bearers of the
       scaffold. Each end of the wire rope shall be secured by at least three (3) standard wire
       rope clips.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         193



       17.16.3.5. Overhead supporting members shall be inspected and checked for condition
       and strength before the scaffold is erected.
17.17. Ladder-Jack Scaffolds. Ladder-jack scaffolds shall be limited to light duty and shall not
exceed a height of 20 feet above the floor or ground. Scaffold loads shall not exceed ladder safe
working load. They shall be designed and constructed as specified in Chapter 7, Walking
Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and Fixed
Ladders.
   17.17.1. The ladder jack shall bear on the side rails in addition to the ladder rungs, or if
   bearing on rungs only, the bearing area shall be at least 10 inches on each rung.
   17.17.2. Ladders used in conjunction with ladder jacks shall be placed, fastened, held or
   equipped with devices to prevent slipping.
   17.17.3. Wood platform planks shall not be less than two (2) inches nominal in thickness.
   Both metal and wood platform planks shall overlap the bearing surface not less than 12
   inches. The span between supports for wood shall not exceed eight (8) feet. Platform width
   shall not be less than 18 inches.
   17.17.4. Not more than two (2) persons shall occupy any given eight (8) feet of any ladder
   jack scaffold at any time.
17.18. Window-Jack Scaffolds. Window-jack scaffolds shall be used only for working at the
window opening through which the jack is placed. These scaffolds shall not be used to support
planks placed between one window jack and another or for supporting other elements of
scaffolding. Window-jack scaffolds shall be provided with guardrails unless a PFAS is provided
for the worker. Note: Window-jack scaffolds shall be used by one person only.
17.19. Roofing Brackets. Roofing brackets shall fit the pitch of the roof. Brackets shall be
secured in place by nailing in addition to the pointed metal projections. The nails shall be driven
full length into the roof. When rope supports are used, they shall consist of first-grade manila of
at least ¾-inch diameter, or equivalent. A catch platform shall be installed below the working
area of roofs which are more than 20 feet from the ground to the eaves and have a slope greater
than 3 inches in 12 inches without a parapet. The platform width shall extend two (2) feet beyond
the projection of the eaves and shall be provided with a safety rail, midrail and toeboard, unless
workers on such roofs are protected by PFASs.
17.20. Crawling Boards or Chicken Ladders. Crawling boards shall be at least 10 inches
wide and 1 inch thick. Cleats shall be 1 by 1-1/2 inches, equal in length to the width of the board
and spaced at equal intervals not to exceed 24 inches. Nails shall be driven through and clinched
on the underside. The crawling board shall extend from the ridge pole to the eaves when used in
connection with roof construction, repair or maintenance. A firmly fastened lifeline of at least ¾-
inch rope shall be strung beside each crawling board for a handhold. Crawling boards shall be
secured to the roof by ridge hooks or equally effective means.
17.21. Float or Ship Scaffolds. A float or ship scaffold is a suspension scaffold consisting of a
braced platform resting on two (2) parallel bearers and hung from overhead supports by ropes of
fixed length. Float or ship scaffolds shall be limited to no more than three (3) workers and a few
light tools, such as those needed for riveting, bolting and welding. They shall be constructed
 194                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


IAW sub-paragraphs below. Substitute design and materials are permitted, provided equal
strength, stability and safety are ensured.
   17.21.1. The platform shall not be less than 3 feet wide and 6 feet long, made of ¾-inch
   plywood, equivalent to American Plywood Association Grade B-B, Group 1, Exterior. Under
   the platform, there shall be 2 supporting bearers made from 2- by 4-inch or 1-by 10-inch
   rough, selected lumber, or better. They shall be free of knots or other flaws and project six
   (6) inches beyond the platform on both sides. The ends of the platform shall extend about six
   (6) inches beyond the outer edges of the bearer. Each bearer shall be fastened to the platform.
   17.21.2. A wood edging not less than ¾ by 1½ inches, or equal, shall be placed around all
   sides of the platform to prevent tools from rolling off.
   17.21.3. Supporting ropes shall be 1-inch diameter manila rope or equal, free from
   deterioration, chemical damage, flaws or other imperfections. Rope connections shall be such
   that the platform cannot shift or slip. If two ropes are used with each float, they shall be
   arranged to provide four (4) ends which are fastened to an overhead support. Each of the two
   (2) supporting ropes shall be hitched around one end of a bearer and pass under the platforms
   to the other end of the bearer where it is hitched again, leaving enough rope at each end for
   the supporting ties.
   17.21.4. Each worker shall be protected by a PFAS. The lifeline shall be attached to
   substantial members of the structure (not the scaffold) or to securely rigged lines, which shall
   safely suspend the worker in case of a fall.

Table 17.1. Scaffold Grade Planking.
                                  Scaffold Grade Planking
                                                  Materials
                       Full Thickness Undresses Lumber Nominal Thickness Lumber
Working Load           25        50          75            25    50
(p.s.f.)
Permissible Span 10          8          6              8            9
(ft.)
Note: The maximum permissible span for 1 ¼ x 9-inch or wider plank of full thickness is 4 feet
with medium loading of 50 p.s.f..

Table 17.2. Insulated Lines.
                                      Insulated Lines
          Voltage                  Minimum distance                   Alternatives
Less than 300 volts            3 feet (0.9 m)
300 volts to 50 kv             10 feet (3.1 m)
More than 50 kv.....           10 feet (3.1 m) plus 0.4       2 times the length of the
                               inches (1.0 cm) for each 1     line insulator, but never less
                               kv over 50 kv                  than 10 feet (3.1 m)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         195




Table 17.3. Uninsulated Lines.
                                  Uninsulated Lines
          Voltage                Minimum distance                     Alternatives
Less than 50 kv.....         10 feet (3.1 m)
More than 50 kv.....         10 feet (3.1 m) plus 0.4         2 times the length of the
                             inches (1.0 cm) for each 1       line insulator, but never less
                             kv over 50 kv                    than 10 feet (3.1 m)

Table 17.4. Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Light Duty.
                        Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Light Duty
Uniformly distributed load …………………………. Not to exceed 25 p.s.f.
Post spacing (longitudinal) ………………………….              10 ft.          0 in.
Post spacing (transverse) ……………………………                 6 ft.          0 on.
Working levels                 Additional planked levels     Maximum height
1                              8                             125 ft.
2                              4                             125 ft.
3                              0                             91 ft. 0 in.

Table 17.5. Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Medium Duty.
                       Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Medium Duty
Uniformly distributed load ………………….           Not to exceed 50 p.s.f.

Post spacing (longitudinal) ………………….            8 ft. 0 in.

Post spacing (transverse) …………………….             6 ft. 0 in.
Working levels                   Additional planked levels         Maximum height
1                                6                                 125 ft.
2                                0                                 78 ft. 0 in.

Table 17.6. Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Heavy Duty.
                      Tube and Coupler Scaffolds – Heavy Duty
Uniformly distributed load ………………….           Not to exceed 75 p.s.f.

Post spacing (longitudinal) ………………….            6 ft. 6 in.

Post spacing (transverse) …………………….             6 ft. 0 in.
 196                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012




Table 17.7. Outrigger Scaffolds.
                                    Outrigger Scaffolds
                                    Light Duty                       Medium Duty
Maximum scaffold load               25 p.s.f.                        50 p.s.f.
Outrigger size                      2 x 10 in.                       3 x 10 in.
Maximum outrigger spacing           10 ft. 0 in.                     6 ft. 0 in.
Planking                            2 x 9 in.                        2 x 9 in.
Guardrail                           2 x 4 in.                        2 x 4 in.
Guardrail uprights                  2 x 4 in.                        2 x 4 in.
Toeboards (minimum)                 4 in.                            4 in.

Table 17.8. Ladder-Type Platforms.
                                  Ladder-Type Platforms
                                   Length of platform (feet)
                     12            14 & 16         18 & 20          22 & 24        28 & 30
Side stringers
Minimum Cross
Section (finished)
Sizes:
At ends (in.)        1¾x2¾         1¼2¾             1¾x3            1¾x3           1¾x3½
At middle (in.)      1¾x3¾         1¾x3¾            1¼x4            1¾x4¼          1¾x5
Reinforcing strip

(minimum) (1)        …………………………………………………………………………
Rungs (2)            ……
                     …………………………………………………………………………
                     ……
Tie Rods:
Number           3                     4            4                 5                6
(minimum)
Diameter         ¼ in.                 ¼ in.        ¼ in.             ¼ in.            ¼ in.
(minimum)
Flooring,        ½x2¾                  ½x2¾         ½x2¾              ½ x 2¾           ½x2
Minimum Finished                                                                       ¾
Size (in.)
NOTES:
1. A 1/8 x 7/8 in. steel reinforcing strip or its equivalent shall be attached to the side or
underside full length.
2. Rungs shall be 1 1/8 in. minimum diameter with at least 7/8 in. diameter tenons, and the
maximum spacing shall be 12 in. center to center.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           197



Table 17.9. Bricklayers’ Square Scaffolds.
                              Bricklayers’ Square Scaffolds
Members                                        Dimensions (Inches)
Bearers or horizontal members                  2 by 6
Legs                                           2 by 6
Braces at corners                              1 by 6
Braces diagonally from center frame            1 by 8

Table 17.10. Horse Scaffolds.
                                       Horse Scaffolds
Members                                          Dimensions (Inches)
Horizontal members or bearers                    3 by 4
Legs                                             1¼x4½
Longitudinal brace between legs                  1 by 6
Gusset brace at top of legs                      1 by 8
Half diagonal braces                             1¼x4½
17.22. Scaffolding Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this
instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist
that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety
staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual location or
shop-unique requirements and/or situations. Note: Due to the numerous types and different
requirements for each specific type of scaffolding only general requirements are included in this
checklist. For specific safety and design requirements involving different types of scaffolding,
contact your installation Ground Safety office or CE.
   17.22.1. Are scaffolds constructed and erected only by qualified and trained personnel?
   Reference 17.3.1
   17.22.2. Are scaffold footings and anchorages designed to support the maximum intended
   load without settling or displacement? Reference 17.3.2
   17.22.3. Is the use of unstable objects such as barrels, boxes, loose brick or concrete blocks
   to support scaffolds or planks prohibited? Reference 17.3.2
   17.22.4. Are guardrails installed on open sides and ends of platforms 4 feet or more (and
   toeboards if 10 feet or more) above the working level? Reference 17.3.3.1
   17.22.5. Is a wire mesh screen installed between the toeboard and guardrail along the entire
   length of opening where persons work or pass beneath the scaffold? Reference 17.3.3.2.5
   17.22.6. Is the scaffolding designed to support at least four (4) times the intended load?
   Reference 17.3.4
   17.22.7. Is scaffolding maintained in good condition and are parts inspected prior to their
   use? Reference 17.3.6
198                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  17.22.8. Are deficiencies such as missing parts or members; broken, bent or rusted parts; or
  any other condition that could affect the integrity of the scaffold, repaired or replaced
  immediately? Reference 17.3.6
  17.22.9. Are scaffold pole, legs or uprights plumb and securely and rigidly braced to prevent
  swaying and displacement? Reference 17.3.13
  17.22.10. Do personnel involved in erection, maintenance and teardown of overhead
  scaffolding wear hard hats? Reference 17.3.15
  17.22.11. Are measures taken to protect workers during adverse weather conditions?
  Reference 17.3.17
  17.22.12. Are tools, materials and debris that could create a hazard prohibited from
  accumulating on scaffolding? Reference 17.3.18
  17.22.13. Is the use of shore scaffolds or lean-to scaffolds prohibited? Reference 17.3.21
  17.22.14. When protection of wooden parts on a scaffold is required, is clear vanish, lacquer
  or shellac used, and the use of paint prohibited? Reference 17.3.26
  17.22.15. Is scaffolding that is excessively heavy, bulky or awkward moved with the
  assistance of other workers or mechanical handling equipment to prevent injury to workers?
  Reference 17.3.27
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       199



                                          Chapter 18

                                        MACHINERY

18.1. General Information. Refer to 29 CFR 1910 Subpart O, Machinery and Machine
Guarding, and the National Safety Council (NSC) Accident Prevention Manual for Industrial
Operations, for additional definitions and Figures.
18.2. Hazards.
   18.2.1. All mechanical motion is potentially hazardous. Motion hazards, such as rotating
   devices, cutting or shearing blades, in-running nip points, reciprocating parts, linear moving
   belts and pulleys, meshing gears, and uncontrolled movement of failing parts, are examples
   of motion which may be peculiar to any one machine or job operation. Personnel exposed to
   machinery or equipment hazards must be aware of the potential hazards.
   18.2.2. Machine operators and others exposed to moving parts can get clothing, hair or body
   parts caught in the machinery. The chance of these mishaps occurring is greater as fatigue
   increases or attention decreases. Pressure to get the job done may result in overlooking sound
   work practices or attempting to bypass guards. This is particularly true when the operation
   necessitates the removal of guards to make adjustments, etc.
   18.2.3. The techniques and skills for setting up and operating equipment require effective
   training programs.
   18.2.4. Injuries from working on or near moving machinery range from minor cuts and
   bruises to a severed limb. This hazard exists where shop machinery is operated and may exist
   at all job sites where vehicles, equipment or machinery are in use.
18.3. General Requirements.
   18.3.1. Acquisition. Machines and attachments may be locally and centrally procured. All
   newly acquired machines shall meet the design and construction requirements identified in
   Military Specifications (Mil Specs). OSHA standards in Table 18.1 will be used when no
   Mil Specs exist. Supervisors needing access to OSHA standards should contact the
   installation Ground Safety office or go to website: http://www.osha.gov. If a machine is not
   specifically covered by this instruction, a Mil Spec or an OSHA standard, the installation
   Ground Safety office shall be contacted for assistance in identifying applicable criteria.
   When possible, machinery should be selected that minimizes worker exposure to noise,
   vibration and awkward ergonomic positions.
   18.3.2. Installation. Machines designed for fixed locations or that may tip over shall be
   securely fastened to the floor or other suitable foundation to eliminate all movement or
   walking. Machines equipped with rubber feet, nonskid foot pads or similar vibration
   dampening materials shall be installed IAW the manufacturer‘s recommendations. Weight
   limitation of floors or foundations shall be considered prior to machinery installation. Refer
   to 29 CFR 1910.212., General Requirements for all Machines, for additional information.
      18.3.2.1. Sufficient space shall be provided around each machine to allow materials to be
      handled with the least possible interference from and to other workers and to allow access
200                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      for maintenance and repair. For detailed information on shop layout, passageways and
      machine clear zones, refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall
      Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders.
      18.3.2.2. IAW AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure
      Controls, BE shall determine requirements for exhaust systems. Machines that develop
      fine dust and fumes that are hazardous to workers shall be equipped with effective hoods,
      connected to an exhaust system. An interlocking device shall be installed to link the
      machine‘s power supply and the exhaust system to prevent operation of the machine
      without the exhaust system operating. In shops where small numbers of machines are not
      continuously in operation, portable collection systems may be more cost effective. Hoods
      and exhaust systems shall be constructed and installed to meet requirements of the
      current version of the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
      (ACGIH) ventilation design standards.
      18.3.2.3. Consult the installation CE facility design section whenever specific guidance
      on lighting is required for specific locations. Fine work may require increased
      illumination. This can be obtained with a combination of increased general lighting plus
      supplementary lighting. If fluorescent lighting is used, it shall be installed so as to
      eliminate any stroboscopic effect with moving machinery. Submit an AF Form 332, Base
      Civil Engineer Work Request, when a lighting survey is required. If the safety or health of
      personnel is a factor, the work request shall be coordinated with the installation Ground
      Safety office and/or BE, who may assign a risk assessment code (RAC), if warranted.
      18.3.2.4. Machine energy isolating devices shall be capable of being locked out by a
      designed hasp or other attachment or an integral part to which, or through which, a lock
      can be affixed or the energy isolated by simply disconnecting an electrical plug.
  18.3.3. Training. Personnel shall be trained by the supervisor or a designated trainer on all
  machinery or equipment they are required to use prior to use. Only trained personnel or those
  undergoing supervised on-the-job training shall operate shop machinery or equipment.
  Training shall be documented in the worker‘s AF Form 623, Individual Training Record
  Folder, for military personnel, and the Standard Form (SF) 182, Authorization, Agreement
  and Certification of Training, for government civilian workers.
      18.3.3.1. Operators shall be trained in the proper operation, safety procedures, cleaning,
      hazard recognition and emergency shutdown procedures for each machine or piece of
      equipment they use.
      18.3.3.2. Operators shall also be trained on machine or equipment maintenance or repairs
      they are required to perform.
      18.3.3.3. Services craft or hobby shop patrons shall be trained by the supervisor or a
      designated trainer on the proper operation, safety procedures, hazard recognition and
      emergency procedures for each piece of equipment they will use. An Arts and Crafts
      Equipment Qualification card shall be issued to identify the machinery the patron is
      authorized to operate. Personnel shall not operate machines or equipment if this card is
      not available.
      18.3.3.4. Supervisors and operators shall receive training on lockout and tagout
      procedures contained in Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout),
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      201



     to ensure the purpose of the program is understood, and that each person has the
     knowledge and skills required to apply and remove locks and tags. Operators shall be
     retrained when there is a change in energy control procedures or a change in job
     assignment, machines or equipment. Services patrons, i.e. base hobby shops, shall receive
     general awareness training IAW paragraph 21.5.1 to understand the lockout and tagout
     program, but shall not apply or remove locks or tags.
  18.3.4. Safe Operations.
     18.3.4.1. Supervisors will:
         18.3.4.1.1. Maintain manufacturers‘ manuals for all machinery or equipment under
         their control. In the absence of these, supervisors shall develop local OIs, to include
         job safety, maintenance (including cleaning and sanitizing as required), lubrication
         and inspection. Such instructions shall identify operator and maintenance technician
         responsibilities. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212., and 1910.263., Bakery Equipment, for
         additional information.
         18.3.4.1.2. Ensure only authorized personnel operate and maintain shop equipment.
         18.3.4.1.3. Periodically evaluate machinery or equipment operators to ensure they are
         following proper and safe operating procedures. See paragraph 18.3.3 for required
         training.
     18.3.4.2. Machines shall be used only for work within the rated capacity specified by the
     machine manufacturer.
     18.3.4.3. One or more methods of machine guarding shall be provided to protect the
     operator and other employees or patrons in the machine area from hazards such as those
     created by point of operation, in-running nip points, rotating parts, flying chips, power
     transmission apparatus and sparks. For additional guidance refer to OSHA Publication
     3067, Concepts and Techniques of Machine Safeguarding. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212. for
     additional guidance.
     18.3.4.4. Machines shall not be operated unless all guards are securely in place and
     operational. Any time guards are removed, the power cord shall be disconnected or the
     machinery turned off, locked out and tagged out. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212., 29 CFR
     1910.147., The Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout), Chapter 21and
     paragraph 18.3.5.4 for additional guidance.
     18.3.4.5. Machines shall be maintained so, while running, they are free of excessive
     vibration. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.213., Woodworking Machinery Requirements, for
     additional information.
     18.3.4.6. No blade, cutterhead or collar shall be placed or mounted on a machine arbor
     unless it has been accurately sized and shaped to fit the arbor. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.213.
     for additional information.
     18.3.4.7. Arbors and mandrels shall have a firm and secure bearing and be free from
     excessive end play. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.213. for additional information.
202                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      18.3.4.8. Machines shall never be left unattended with the control switch in the ON
      position. The operator shall remain at the machine until all motion has ceased. In the
      event of a power failure, the operator shall immediately switch the machine to the OFF
      position.
      18.3.4.9. Workers operating, helping or observing machine operations shall comply with
      PPE requirements for each particular machine and general PPE requirements for the work
      area. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional
      information.
      18.3.4.10. Loose fitting clothing, neckties, rings, bracelets or other apparel that may
      become entangled in moving machinery, power transmission apparatus or moving parts
      shall not be worn by machine operators, their helpers or anyone in close proximity of this
      equipment.
      18.3.4.11. Hair nets or caps shall be worn to keep long hair under control and safely
      away from moving machinery, power-transmission apparatus or moving parts. Refer to
      Chapter 9, Jewelry, and Chapter 14 for additional information.
      18.3.4.12. The operator shall allow all moving parts to come to a complete stop before
      any attempt is made to clean or clear jammed work or debris from any part of a machine.
      Chips or other particles shall be removed using brushes, tools designed for such a
      purpose or compressed air. If using compressed air for cleaning equipment, keep the air
      pressure as low as practical, but limit air pressure to less than 30 psi, unless a lower
      pressure is required byTO, manufacturer‘s data or local procedures. Also, ensure the
      nozzle discharge tip is a diffuser type. Compressed air shall not be used to blow chips or
      other debris from a worker‘s body or clothing. Effective chip guarding (nozzle discharge
      tip is a diffuser type) and PPE shall be used. Also, to prevent flying chips and particles
      from striking the eyes and skin of the operator and bystanders, screens, barriers or
      protective cones attached to air nozzles shall be used.
  18.3.5. Inspection and Maintenance.
      18.3.5.1. Supervisors shall ensure all machines are inspected upon receipt to detect and
      correct defects. TO 34-1-3, Inspection and Maintenance of Machinery and Shop
      Equipment, shall be followed for periodic inspection requirements.
      18.3.5.2. Operator‘s inspection shall be conducted prior to the start of each shift,
      following a new setup or when operators change. This inspection shall ensure operating
      components are in good working order, and guards, interlocks and other protective
      devices are activated or in place, operating properly and in proper adjustment. Necessary
      maintenance or repair shall be performed and completed before the machine is placed in
      operation.
      18.3.5.3. Repairs beyond the operator‘s capability shall only be accomplished by a
      qualified technician.
      18.3.5.4. When maintenance is needed, whether done by the supervisor, operator or
      specialized technician, machines shall be completely shut down and all energy isolating
      devices locked out in the OFF position. The appropriate warning tag shall be affixed to
      the machine or energy source. In cases where machine or equipment design prohibits the
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       203



      lockout capability, the tagout procedure with the AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment
      Lockout Tag, shall be used. When machines and equipment are overhauled or replaced,
      energy isolating devices or controls that can be locked out must be installed. Refer to
      Chapter 21 for specific guidance on installation of locks and tags.
      18.3.5.5. All guards, interlocks and safety devices shall be in place prior to restoring
      power, unless their removal is required by technical data for an operational check.
      18.3.5.6. Services patrons shall not perform maintenance on shop equipment.
      Malfunctioning equipment shall be shut down immediately and reported to the
      supervisor.
      18.3.5.7. Electrical powered equipment shall be unplugged at the outlet or turned off at
      the circuit breaker or disconnect switch before washing the equipment or the surrounding
      area when water could splash on the equipment. Electrical components shall be protected
      when there is danger of water or cleaning liquids entering them.
      18.3.5.8. Records of supervisor inspections and any machine maintenance shall be
      maintained.
   18.3.6. Machine Layout Requirements.
      18.3.6.1. Machines subject to movement because of vibration, rotation or other reasons
      shall be securely fastened to prevent their movement while operating. Exceptions are
      machines (for example, meat slicers) which have very little vibration or movement and
      can be satisfactorily held in position with rubber feet.
      18.3.6.2. Sufficient space for material handling and maintenance shall be provided
      around each machine. The installation Ground Safety office staff and CE shall be
      contacted for assistance on layout problems. Refer to Chapter 7 for additional
      information on shop layout.
18.4. Woodworking Machinery.
   18.4.1. Hazards and Human Factors.
      18.4.1.1. Hazards. The primary hazard of woodworking equipment is high-speed,
      revolving cutting blades and knives. Contact with these parts can result in lacerations and
      amputation of body parts. Other job hazards that account for a wide variety of injuries
      and illnesses are jamming or kicking back of material and wood chips, flying objects
      (wood chips, broken saw blades, etc.), poor housekeeping, improper material handling,
      unsatisfactory maintenance of machinery, excessive equipment noise and inhalation of
      wood dust. Note: Work on copper arsenate treated wood and western red cedar should
      be assessed by BE to ensure proper protection.
      18.4.1.2. Human Factors. Many injuries in woodworking jobs result from personnel
      failing to follow prescribed safe operating practices. These failures result from worker
      attitude, inadequate training and supervisory failure to enforce safe job procedures. The
      use of machine guards, environmental controls, good training and maintenance programs,
      coupled with supervisory enforcement of protective equipment use and safe job practices,
      can eliminate most mishap-producing factors.
204                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  18.4.2. Requirements.
      18.4.2.1. Tilting-Arbor and Tilting-Table Saws (29 CFR 1910.213.).
         18.4.2.1.1. Table saws shall be equipped with a hood that covers the blade and
         automatically adjusts itself to the thickness of the material upon which it rides. The
         hood shall cover the part of the saw blade exposed above the material and shall be
         adaptable to cover tilted blades.
         18.4.2.1.2. Table saws shall be provided with a spreader to prevent the wood‘s
         internal stresses from clamping down on the saw blade.
         18.4.2.1.3. Table throat openings shall be kept as small as possible to prevent
         material from dropping below the level of the table. Several size throat pieces shall be
         available to accommodate rabbeting, grooving and dadoing operations.
         18.4.2.1.4. Devices such as anti-kickback dogs and fingers or safety hold-down
         wheels shall be installed when ripping material. Anti-kickback dogs and fingers shall
         be inspected before each use and kept sharp to maintain their holding power.
         18.4.2.1.5. Saw operators shall not reach over a revolving saw blade for any reason.
         If this appears necessary, a helper shall be positioned at the output end of the saw.
         18.4.2.1.6. Saw blades shall not be stopped after the power is off by thrusting a piece
         of wood against the cutting edge or side of the blade.
         18.4.2.1.7. Saw tables shall extend far enough on either side to give full support to
         any length of board that may be cut.
         18.4.2.1.8. The blade or cutting head shall be inspected to ensure it is in proper
         cutting condition, for example, teeth sharp and properly set, no cracks and free of
         foreign residue, before starting any job.
         18.4.2.1.9. The correct blade shall be matched to the work being done, to aid in
         avoiding kickbacks and other hazards. The following precautions will be taken:
             18.4.2.1.9.1. A crosscut blade shall not be used for rip sawing or a ripping blade
             for crosscutting. Use of the wrong blade requires additional force to feed material
             and increases the danger of a slip-of-the-hand mishap, as well as encouraging a
             kickback. Services hobby shop supervisors shall clearly label each saw with a
             sign or decal, stating which type blade is installed and its uses.
             18.4.2.1.9.2. Special blades shall be used for such materials as plywood or
             lumber in which there might be nails or other metal. If warped, twisted-grain,
             knotty or frozen lumber must be ripped, a carbide-tipped, controlled-cut blade
             shall be used.
         18.4.2.1.10. Operators shall not crowd the saw, that is, force the material faster than
         it can be easily cut. If the saw does not cut a clean, straight line, something is wrong
         with the saw or the running speed. These conditions are potential sources of mishaps
         and shall be checked and remedied.
         18.4.2.1.11. The rip fence shall be adjusted only when the saw is turned off and blade
         rotation has stopped. To enable the operator to set the rip fence without lifting the saw
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       205



        guard, a permanent line shall be marked on the table in front of and in line with the
        saw blade.
        18.4.2.1.12. Hands shall be kept out of the line of cut when feeding saws. When there
        is not enough room (at least 12 inches) for hand movement between the rip fence and
        saw blade, material shall be moved forward with a push stick.
        18.4.2.1.13. The hood shall not be removed when narrow material is being ripped.
        Clearance for the hood can be obtained by attaching a filler piece to the table between
        the rip fence and the saw blade.
        18.4.2.1.14. Saw blades shall be set no higher than is necessary to cut through the
        material being worked. One of two acceptable practices shall be used: either no more
        than three (3) teeth shall protrude above the material being cut, or not more than 1/8
        inch of saw blade shall protrude above the material being cut.
        18.4.2.1.15. Feather boards shall be used as side guides and top hold-downs on
        operations, such as rabbeting, grooving and dadoing, when a blade hood cannot be
        used. Their comb-tooth or feathered edges provide the right kind of pressure to firmly
        guide the material and prevent it from kicking back. Also, they prevent the operator‘s
        hand from moving into the blade.
     18.4.2.2. Radial Arm Saws (29 CFR 1910.213.).
        18.4.2.2.1. Radial saws shall be equipped with a hood that encloses the saw blade
        and the arbor ends. The lower section of the hood shall be hinged so it rises and falls,
        adjusting itself automatically to the thickness of the material as the saw passes
        through it.
        18.4.2.2.2. An anti-kickback device or hold-down wheel shall be installed on saws
        used for ripping. The device shall be adaptable to any thickness of stock to be cut.
        18.4.2.2.3. Manually-operated radial saws shall be installed so the front of the table
        is slightly higher than the rear, which should prevent the cutting head from moving
        forward when the motor is turned on (without touching the moveable saw head). If
        the saw cutting head moves forward, the operator should first check to make sure the
        saw blade is not touching the table top. If the saw blade is located correctly, the front
        of the table should be raised to a height that prevents this movement.
        18.4.2.2.4. With the saw turned off, the operator should pull the saw cutting head all
        the way forward and with the operator‘s hand on the pull grip and exerting minimal
        or no force, follow the head back to its original non-cutting position. If the movement
        of the saw has a tendency to drag, is jerky, or requires excessive force, the operator
        shall check the rollers for wear.
        18.4.2.2.5. The operator should turn the saw ON and observe that the saw cutting
        head does not move forward.
        18.4.2.2.6. If a sluggish or hesitant movement of the saw is detected during
        operation, the unit shall be turned off and taken out of service until the cause of the
        malfunction is corrected.
206                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         18.4.2.2.7. If at any time the saw rolls or moves out on the arm away from the
         column unassisted as a result of vibration, the unit shall be taken out of service until
         the cause of the malfunction is corrected.
         18.4.2.2.8. The saw shall have a positive limit-stop to prevent the saw from traveling
         beyond the front edge of the table. Since this limits the width of the material that can
         be cut, it may be necessary to increase the width of the table so the saw can be
         operated safely the full distance of the arm.
         18.4.2.2.9. When the saw is being used to crosscut a board, the operator shall pull the
         saw cutting head forward by hand until the cut is completed, then push the cutting
         head back easily to its non-cutting position. At no time shall the operator release the
         cutting head and let it roll back to the non-cutting position by itself.
         18.4.2.2.10. Material shall be measured by placing the material to be cut against a
         stop gauge (whenever repeat cuts are required). When it is necessary to measure with
         a ruler, material shall be kept well away from the saw until measuring is completed.
         18.4.2.2.11. When ripping with a radial saw is necessary, ripping and ploughing shall
         be against the direction in which the saw turns. The direction of the saw rotation shall
         be conspicuously marked on the hood. In addition, a permanent label not less than 1
         ½ inches by ¾ inches shall be affixed to the rear of the guard at approximately the
         level of the arbor reading as follows: ―DANGER: DO NOT RIP OR PLOUGH
         FROM THIS END‖ or the nearest commercially available equivalent.
         18.4.2.2.12. Stock shall not be removed from the table until the saw is returned to its
         stopped position.
         18.4.2.2.13. When making angle cuts or miter cuts, the locking device on the saw
         head shall be securely fastened.
         18.4.2.2.14. When crosscutting, the stock shall lie solidly on the table and against the
         back guide.
         18.4.2.2.15. Ensure the blade being used is proper for the work being performed.
         18.4.2.2.16. When removing short pieces from a table close to the saw blade, the
         operator shall ease the saw back to the idling position and make sure all bouncing has
         stopped before placing hands on the table. Cylindrical stock shall be cut on a radial
         saw only when securely clamped.
      18.4.2.3. Band Saws (29 CFR 1910.213.).
         18.4.2.3.1. Both upper and lower wheels shall be completely enclosed on both sides.
         The enclosures should be capable of being removed easily to permit saw blade
         maintenance.
         18.4.2.3.2. The working part of a saw blade, between the guide rolls and the upper
         wheel enclosure, shall be guarded to prevent accidental contact with the saw blade.
         The guard shall be self-adjusting and attached to the gauge so that, in any position of
         the gauge, the guard will completely cover the portion of the saw blade between the
         guide rolls and upper wheel enclosure.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      207



        18.4.2.3.3. Saw Blade Tension. Excessive tension can cause fatigue failure of the
        blade and blade breakage. A means shall be provided to adjust and indicate the proper
        tension for the range of band saw blades used. Preferably, band saws should have an
        automatic tension control to compensate for the contraction that takes place as the
        blade cools after a job is finished and to ensure proper tension of the saw blade. If
        tension is manually controlled (i.e., no automatic tension control),
        instructions/procedures for tension control shall be developed and operators shall be
        trained, and supervised, in proper tension adjustment(s). Note: Automatic tension
        control/device is not mandatory.
        18.4.2.3.4. Feed rolls on self-fed band saws shall be guarded to prevent the
        operator‘s hands from coming into contact with the in-running rolls at any point.
        18.4.2.3.5. The saw speed shall not exceed the safe limit recommended by the
        manufacturer.
        18.4.2.3.6. If material binds or pinches on the blade, the operator shall not attempt to
        back the work away from the blade until the machine is turned off and blade motion
        has stopped.
        18.4.2.3.7. If a saw blade should break, the operator shall shut off the power, lock the
        start switch in the OFF position, and not attempt to remove any part of the saw blade
        until the machine has completely stopped.
     18.4.2.4. Jointers (29 CFR 1910.213.).
        18.4.2.4.1. Each hand-fed planer and jointer with a horizontal or vertical head shall
        be equipped with a cylindrical cutting head, the knife projection of which will not
        exceed 1/8 inch beyond the cylindrical body of the head.
        18.4.2.4.2. The opening in the table shall be kept as small as possible. The clearance
        between the edge of the rear table and the cutting head circle or knives shall not
        exceed 1/8 inch. The table throat opening shall not exceed two (2) inches when tables
        are set or aligned with each other for a zero cut.
        18.4.2.4.3. Jointers with front-table-mounted fences shall be equipped with an
        adjustable device to prevent thin stock from slipping laterally under the portion of the
        fence at the rear of the table.
        18.4.2.4.4. An automatic guard shall be provided to cover the section of the cutter
        head near the operator (on the working side of the fence) and to contact the wood to
        prevent any opening between the guard and wood during the operation. The guard
        shall cover the section of the cutter head on the nonworking side of the fence,
        especially when the fence is moved toward the automatic guard. Two types of
        automatic guards are commonly found on jointers. One type is pushed aside by the
        material and is referred to as a swing guard. The other type, found on some old
        machines, rises to the top of the stock and drops after the material passes beneath it.
        Each type has some advantages and disadvantages depending on the principal type of
        operation performed. The swing guard is the most common type. The swing guard is
        pushed aside by the stock passing over the cutting head and is returned against the
208                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         fence by a spring after the wood is removed. For surface jointing, the cutter head shall
         be momentarily exposed as the rear of the stock passes over it. A well-constructed
         push block will protect an operator‘s hand at this point. The overhead guard may rise
         above the material or in some designs will also move to the side of the stock. This
         guard does impede the use of push blocks.
         18.4.2.4.5. The guard over the section of the cutting head on the rear side of the fence
         shall consist of a sliding metal shield that will automatically adjust to the exposed
         length of the cutter head.
         18.4.2.4.6. Whenever power feeders are used, the feeding mechanism shall be
         guarded by a metal shield or hood.
         18.4.2.4.7. Because knife blades on a revolving cutting head produce a thrust forceful
         enough to pull stock from an operator‘s hand, hold-down push blocks, jigs or fixtures
         shall be used.
      18.4.2.5. Power Feed Planers (29 CFR 1910.213.).
         18.4.2.5.1. Guards shall be provided for feed rolls, cutting heads and hold-down rolls
         at the discharge end. Feed rolls shall be guarded by a metal strip in front of the rolls
         under which the material may pass, but will prevent an operator‘s fingers being drawn
         into the rolls while feeding the machine. Where the top roll is corrugated, the strip
         shall extend over the top of the roll. Cutting heads and discharge rolls shall be
         guarded by a solid metal enclosure of substantial construction. The hood of an
         exhaust system may form part or all of the enclosure.
         18.4.2.5.2. When other than corrugated top-feed rolls are used, an anti-kickback
         device shall be installed.
         18.4.2.5.3. The operator shall examine each planer before use to ensure that knives
         are not set to take too heavy a cut for one pass.
         18.4.2.5.4. Helpers shall position themselves where they will not be pinned between
         the material and an immovable object.
         18.4.2.5.5. Operators shall be especially careful of their fingers when surfacing a
         short length of material as the infeed rolls may tip the material up and then down
         quickly, causing fingers to become pinched between the table top and the material.
      18.4.2.6. Shapers (29 CFR 1910.213.).
         18.4.2.6.1. Shapers shall be equipped with a braking device that will stop the cutting
         head within 10 seconds after power is shut off. A double-spindle machine shall be
         equipped with separate braking devices.
         18.4.2.6.2. A fence shall have as small an opening for the knives as possible and
         shall extend at least 18 inches on either side of the spindle.
         18.4.2.6.3. Cutting heads shall be enclosed by a guard. The guard shall not be less
         than the greatest diameter of the cutter. Attaching a warning device of leather or other
         such material to the spindle is not acceptable.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     209



        18.4.2.6.4. Whenever possible, hold-downs and jigs shall be used to limit exposure
        of hands to cutters.
        18.4.2.6.5. When a blade is removed from a spindle for sharpening, or for some other
        purpose, all other blades shall be removed at the same time.
     18.4.2.7. Lathes (29 CFR 1910.213.).
        18.4.2.7.1. Rotating, cutter-type lathes shall be provided with a hinged metal shield
        or hood that completely covers the knives and material when the machine is in
        operation. Exhaust system hoods may be included as part of the guard if they comply
        with standard guard designs.
        18.4.2.7.2. Automatic lathes shall be equipped with a brake that will bring rotating
        material to a quick, but not instantaneous, stop after the power is shut off.
        18.4.2.7.3. Automatic lathes shall be placed with the back side against a wall or
        barrier to contain knives should they be thrown rearwards.
        18.4.2.7.4. Tool rests shall be set parallel, as close as possible to the work and high
        enough so tools will butt into the wood slightly above the horizontal center of the
        piece being turned.
        18.4.2.7.5. Faceplate type lathes shall be provided with a control stop so the operator
        cannot unintentionally throw the power directly from the normal running direction of
        rotation into reverse. This will avoid the possibility of the faceplate unscrewing and
        flying off.
        18.4.2.7.6. Lathes used for turning long pieces of material shall be equipped with
        guards that will contain the work piece if it separates from its anchorage.
        18.4.2.7.7. Operators will not stand directly in line with hand-turning tools.
        18.4.2.7.8. When sanding, the sandpaper shall be held in the fingers and pressed
        lightly against a small area at the top of the rotating material. This will keep the
        sandpaper from catching and pulling the operator‘s hand around the material.
        18.4.2.7.9. Poor quality wood shall not be used for wood turning.
     18.4.2.8. Sanding Machines (29 CFR 1910.213.).
        18.4.2.8.1. Feed rolls of self-feed sanding machines shall be protected with a guard
        to prevent hands from coming in contact with the in-running rolls at any point.
        18.4.2.8.2. Belt sanding machines shall be provided with guards at each nip point.
        These guards shall effectively prevent hands or fingers from coming in contact with
        the nip points. The unused run of the sanding belt shall be guarded against accidental
        contact.
     18.4.2.9. Boring and Mortising Machines (29 CFR 1910.213.).
        18.4.2.9.1. Safety-bit chucks shall not have projecting set screws.
        18.4.2.9.2. A guard shall be provided which will enclose all portions of the bit chuck
        above the material being worked.
210                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         18.4.2.9.3. The top of the driving mechanism shall be enclosed.
         18.4.2.9.4. If there is a counterweight, one of the following or equivalent methods
         shall be used to prevent its dropping:
             18.4.2.9.4.1. It shall be bolted to the bar by a bolt passing through both the bar
             and counterweight.
             18.4.2.9.4.2. A bolt shall be put through the extreme end of the bar.
             18.4.2.9.4.3. Where the counterweight does not encircle the bar, a safety chain
             shall be attached to it.
             18.4.2.9.4.4. Other types of counterweights shall be suspended by chain or wire
             rope and will travel in a pipe or other suitable enclosure wherever they might fall
             and cause injury or damage.
             18.4.2.9.4.5. Universal joints on spindles of boring machines shall be completely
             enclosed to prevent accidental contact by the operator.
             18.4.2.9.4.6. Each table-type boring or mortising machine shall be equipped with
             hold-down devices to keep work securely in place.
      18.4.2.10. Tenoning Machines (29 CFR 1910.213.).
         18.4.2.10.1. Feed chains and sprockets of double-end tenoning machines shall be
         completely enclosed, except for that portion of chain used for conveying the stock.
         18.4.2.10.2. Sprockets and chains shall be guarded at the sides by plates projecting
         beyond the periphery of sprockets and the ends of lugs at the rear ends of frames over
         which feed conveyors run.
         18.4.2.10.3. Each tenoning machine shall have cutting heads and saws, if used,
         covered by metal guards. These guards shall cover at least the unused part of the
         periphery of the cutting head. Where an exhaust system is used, the guard may form
         part or all of the exhaust hood.
      18.4.2.11. Electrical Requirements and Safeguards (29 CFR 1910.213. and 1910.147.).
         18.4.2.11.1. The motor START switch shall be protected against accidental or
         inadvertent operation. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.217., Mechanical Power Presses, for
         additional information.
         18.4.2.11.2. All machinery shall be installed IAW NFPA 70, National Electrical
         Code.
         18.4.2.11.3. Control switches shall be available to workers at their operating
         positions so they will not need to reach over moving parts of machinery. The stop
         control switch shall be identified by a printed word or color coded red. Controls shall
         not be wedged for continuous operation.
         18.4.2.11.4. Machines not adequately safeguarded to protect the worker during an
         under-voltage situation or a power failure shall have an under-voltage protective
         device installed. This device prevents the machine from starting up after a power
         interruption, exposing the worker to the hazards of moving parts. Qualified operators
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    211



        shall follow the safe operating practices in paragraph 18.3.4. The installation Ground
        Safety office and work center supervisors are responsible for identifying those
        machines that require this protection.
        18.4.2.11.5. Foot treadle controls shall be protected against unexpected or accidental
        tripping. These controls shall also have a non-slip surface.
        18.4.2.11.6. Exposed non-current-carrying metal components that may become
        energized shall be grounded.
        18.4.2.11.7. All machine energy sources or energy isolating devices shall be locked
        out and tagged out before performing maintenance or major adjustments to moving
        parts that require panels and guards to be removed. AF Form 983, Danger –
        Equipment Lockout Tag, may be used temporarily until the lockout is accomplished
        or in conjunction with the lockout. Refer to Chapter 21 for additional guidance on
        lockout procedures. When working with cord and plug connected electric equipment
        for which exposure to the hazards of unexpected energization or start up of the
        equipment is controlled by the unplugging of the equipment from the energy source
        and by the plus being under the exclusive control of the employee performing the
        servicing or maintenance, then lockout/tagout is not required.
     18.4.2.12. Safeguarding by Location or Distance. To safeguard by location, the machine
     or its dangerous moving parts must be positioned so hazardous areas are not accessible or
     do not present a hazard to a worker during the normal operation of the machine. This may
     be accomplished by locating a machine where a building design feature, such as a wall,
     protects the worker and other personnel. Additionally, enclosure walls or fences can
     restrict access to machines. Another possible solution is to have dangerous parts located
     high enough to be out of the normal reach of any worker.
        18.4.2.12.1. Before attempting safeguarding by location or distance, a thorough
        hazard analysis of each machine and particular situation shall be performed by the
        supervisor and installation Ground Safety office. The analysis must clearly identify
        that workers are protected from dangerous moving parts and one of the restrictions in
        paragraph 18.4.2.12 is met.
        18.4.2.12.2. Moving parts of machines shall be at least eight (8) feet above the work
        level, e.g., floor, platform or passageway.
        18.4.2.12.3. Machines shall be in an enclosed area with a locked entrance. The
        enclosure (wall or fence) shall be at least eight (8) feet high. The main source of
        power shall be disconnected and locked in the OFF position when maintenance,
        service or major adjustments are made to moving parts with guards and panels
        removed. The AF Form 983 will be used in conjunction with the lockout, or in place
        of the lock if lockout is not possible.
     18.4.2.13. Safeguarding Devices.
        18.4.2.13.1. A safeguarding device that performs one of several functions can be
        used to replace a guard. It must:
            18.4.2.13.1.1. Stop the machine if a body part is inadvertently placed in the
212                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             danger area.
             18.4.2.13.1.2. Restrain or withdraw the operator‘s hands from the danger area
             during operation.
             18.4.2.13.1.3. Require the operator to use both hands on machine controls, thus
             keeping both hands and body out of danger.
             18.4.2.13.1.4. Provide a barrier that is synchronized with the operating cycle of
             the machine to prevent entry to the danger area during a hazardous part of the
             cycle.
         18.4.2.13.2. These devices shall be installed, adjusted and used IAW manufacturer‘s
         operating and maintenance instructions. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212., General
         Requirements for all Machines, 1910.213, Woodworking Machinery Requirements,
         and 1910.217., Mechanical Power Presses, for additional safe distance and maximum
         opening requirements.
         18.4.2.13.3. All hazardous parts not protected by the device must be guarded IAW
         paragraph 18.4.2.14.
      18.4.2.14. Safeguarding by Barrier or Enclosure. These guarding techniques primarily
      apply to three areas: power transmission apparatus, feeding and ejection areas, and points
      of operation. Barriers may be fixed, adjustable or self-adjusting. Enclosure guards are
      normally fixed. Both types can be equipped with an interlock that prevents the machine
      from cycling or starting if the guard is opened or removed. Because the type of operation,
      size or shape of material, and method of handling vary between machines, the type of
      barrier or enclosure selected may also vary.
         18.4.2.14.1. Every guard must, by design, construction, application and adjustment:
             18.4.2.14.1.1. Prevent hands, fingers or other body parts from entering into the
             hazardous areas by reaching through, over, under or around the guard. Refer to 29
             CFR 1910.217., Table O-10, for additional information.
             18.4.2.14.1.2. Create no pinch point between the guard and moving machine
             parts.
             18.4.2.14.1.3. Not be easily removable by the worker.
             18.4.2.14.1.4. Offer maximum visibility of the point of operation consistent with
             operational and maintenance requirements.
             18.4.2.14.1.5. Be affixed to the machine. Where possible, they shall be hinged to
             enhance maintenance or adjustments.
         18.4.2.14.2. When a point-of-operation guard cannot be used because of unusual
         shapes or cuts, jigs or fixtures that provide equal safety for the operator shall be used.
         Upon completion of an unusual operation, the guard shall be immediately replaced.
         18.4.2.14.3. Whenever a guard is removed for other than an operational requirement,
         the machine shall be shut down and the control switches locked and tagged in the
         OFF position.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      213



        18.4.2.14.4. Whenever possible, enclosure and barrier guards shall be interlocked
        with the machine control so the machine cannot be activated unless the guards, or the
        hinged or movable sections of the guard, are in position. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.217.
        for additional safe distance requirements.
           18.4.2.14.4.1. The guard shall prevent the operator opening the interlocked
           section and reaching into the point of operation.
           18.4.2.14.4.2. Only personnel authorized by the shop supervisor shall make
           adjustments.
           18.4.2.14.4.3. Guards interlocked with the machine cycle shall, when opened,
           stop the related component, interrupt the machine cycle, or shut down the
           machine. Closing the guard shall not restart the machine cycle except when the
           guard is designed for that purpose.
        18.4.2.14.5. When the periphery of the blades of a fan are less than seven (7) feet
        above the floor or working level, the blades shall be guarded. The guard will have
        openings no larger than 1/2 inch in width and depth. The use of concentric rings, with
        spacing between them not exceeding 1/2 inch, is acceptable providing that radial
        spokes and firm mountings are used to make the guard rigid enough to prevent it
        being pushed into the fan blade. The use of nylon mesh or similar materials with
        holes not exceeding 1/2 inch to modify a substandard fan guard is acceptable
        providing the combination of the two provides protection from contact with the blade.
        The mesh must not be able to be pushed into the fan blade during normal use.
        18.4.2.14.6. An enclosure guard provides the greatest degree of protection against
        moving parts of transmission apparatus. Any enclosure is satisfactory provided it is
        strong enough to withstand the bumps and pressure imposed on it without collapsing
        against the mechanism it covers. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212. and 1910.219.,
        Mechanical Power-Transmission Apparatus, for additional guidance.
           18.4.2.14.6.1. The guard shall be designed and installed so no part of the body
           can be inadvertently placed in, on, under or over the edges of the guard where it
           might contact a moving part. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212. for additional guidance.
           18.4.2.14.6.2. Guards shall be made of expanded metal; perforated or solid sheet
           metal; or wire mesh, plastic or other material of equal or greater strength. Material
           used shall be free from burrs or sharp edges. Guards shall be fastened to the
           framework of the machinery. In certain environments where chemical or
           corrosive operations are performed, the installation CE or the Ground Safety
           office may need to determine the best material for guard construction.
           18.4.2.14.6.3. The enclosure guard and its supports shall be designed and
           installed so an adult person leaning on or falling against the enclosure will not be
           injured by the moving part.
           18.4.2.14.6.4. Where there is a reasonable possibility of the moving part failing
           and causing injury, the enclosure shall be capable of containing the broken parts.
           Broken chains, belts, gears and couplings may throw objects when fracture
214                                                           AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      occurs. Part failure commonly occurs in operations involving frequent starting,
      stopping, reversing and cyclic shock or peak loads that exceed normal operational
      loads. Parts that run at high revolutions per minute (rpm) are potential projectile
      hazards. When part failure is considered a hazard, the guard filler material shall
      be a solid metallic sheet, plate stock or casting. Sheet or molded plastics or other
      non-metallics shall not be used unless impact-tested to resist penetration of a
      specific failing part.
      18.4.2.14.6.5. Openings to permit lubrication, adjustment or inspection shall have
      hinged, sliding or bolted cover plates that shall be closed prior to starting the
      machine.
      18.4.2.14.6.6. Horizontal belts and ropes above floors or platforms shall be
      guarded for their entire length if located over passageways or workplaces, and if
      center-to-center distance between pulleys is 10 feet or more.
      18.4.2.14.6.7. Vertical belts running over a lower pulley above the floor or
      platform shall be guarded at the bottom in the same manner as overhead belts.
      18.4.2.14.6.8. Where loose pulleys or idlers are not practical, belt perches in the
      form of brackets, rollers, etc., shall be used to keep idler belts away from the
      shafts. Perches shall be of strong materials and designed for safe shifting of belts.
      18.4.2.14.6.9. Belt dressing shall not be applied when the belt or rope is in
      motion. However, if necessary, it shall be applied where belts leave the pulleys,
      not where they approach them.
      18.4.2.14.6.10. Unless the distance to the nearest fixed pulley, clutch or hanger
      exceeds the width of the belt used, a guard shall be provided to prevent the belt
      from leaving the pulley on the side where insufficient clearance exists. Where
      there are overhanging pulleys on a line, jack or countershaft, with no bearing
      between the pulley and the outer end of the shaft, a guard to prevent the belt from
      running off the pulley shall be installed.
      18.4.2.14.6.11. Pulleys with cracks or pieces broken out of rims shall be taken
      out of service.
      18.4.2.14.6.12. Pulleys used in areas where they would be exposed to corrosion
      shall be made of corrosion-resistant material. Pulleys located in corrosive
      environments shall be inspected semiannually to ensure they are in satisfactory
      condition.
      18.4.2.14.6.13. Vibration is a recognized hazard potential, and in installations
      where components frequently pass through high-vibration levels, there is danger
      of rotating shafts fracturing. Guards that vibrate at high frequencies can become
      dislodged from their mountings. Operators and maintenance personnel must pay
      close attention to the integrity of guards. Workers who experience any
      musculoskeletal disorder symptoms shall report them to their supervisor as soon
      as possible so an ergonomic evaluation may be conducted.
      18.4.2.14.6.14. Exhaust hoods may serve as guards for the top, bottom, backside
      and underside of table saws and wheels of bandsaws, provided they meet
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         215



              construction criteria for guards.
      18.4.2.15. Related Equipment (Shield and Holding Tools). While these aids do not give
      complete protection from machine hazards, they could provide the operator an extra
      margin of safety. Since these aids are not used instead of the safeguards, sound judgment
      is needed in their application.
          18.4.2.15.1. Shields may be used to provide protection from flying particles.
          18.4.2.15.2. Holding tools designed to aid material placement in and out of
          machinery shall be used to prevent placing hands in the danger zone. These tools are
          not a substitute for guarding required by this or any other machine standard. They
          shall only be used to supplement guard protection provided.
18.5. Metal Working Machinery.
   18.5.1. Hazards. The primary hazard associated with metalworking machinery is at the point
   of operation where cutting tools, other machine components, or stock are rotating or cycling
   at high rates of speed. Lacerations to fingers from being caught in, on or between the points
   of operation are the most common injuries. Other hazards include injuries, amputations,
   fractures, punctures, burns and eye and ear damage from:
      18.5.1.1. Slippery floor surfaces from oil and grease leakage and coolant splashing.
      18.5.1.2. Flying particles and objects, such as hot and sharp chips, coolant and dislodged
      machine and auxiliary parts.
      18.5.1.3. Excessive noise levels.
      18.5.1.4. Exposed gears, belt drives and clutch mechanisms.
      18.5.1.5. Heavy material and auxiliary device movements, e.g., power press dies and
      lathe chucks.
      18.5.1.6. Handling of extremely hot or cold materials.
      18.5.1.7. Loose clothing, jewelry, hair, etc.
      18.5.1.8. Inadequate lighting.
   18.5.2. Requirements:
      18.5.2.1. Power Presses. Mechanical power presses come in many different sizes and
      types, but all perform the same basic functions, e.g., forming, punching and shearing, or
      assembling metal or other material. They accomplish these functions by dies or tools
      mounted to a slide. The slide travels toward and away from a stationary anvil upon which
      the material is placed. The frame of the press guides the slide‘s path of travel. The slide‘s
      motion is provided through a crankshaft-clutch-motorized flywheel apparatus. When the
      clutch engages, energy is transmitted from the flywheel to the crankshaft, which in turn
      moves the slide. Power presses are divided into two (2) categories based on the type of
      clutches they use: full revolution or part revolution. The full revolution type, once
      activated, makes one complete revolution of the crankshaft that causes a full cycle of the
      slide before the clutch can be disengaged. The part revolution type can be disengaged at
      any point before the crankshaft has a full revolution and full stroke of the slide. Although
216                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      direct drive presses have no clutch, they can be stopped at any point by de-energizing the
      drive motor, so are considered a part revolution-type press.
         18.5.2.1.1. Supervisors shall ensure either a fixed barrier guard, safeguard device or
         combination of both is installed and used on every operation when the opening
         between the die (tool) and base (anvil) is more than 1/4 inch. The functional manager
         and installation Ground Safety office must approve guarding by location. The use of
         hand-feeding tools, regardless of size, does not replace a guard or device. Refer to 29
         CFR 1910.212. and 1910.217. for additional safe distance and maximum opening
         requirements. Note: The functional manager and installation Ground Safety office
         must approve guarding by location.
         18.5.2.1.2. A guard is the most effective form of protection, if properly designed and
         constructed to prevent entry of hands or fingers into the point of operation. It shall not
         permit a worker to reach through, over, under or around the guard. If a guard is
         installed and functions correctly, no other device is required. Following are four (4)
         of the most common types of guards used on power presses.
             18.5.2.1.2.1. A die enclosure guard is a barrier attached to the die shoe.
             18.5.2.1.2.2. A fixed barrier guard is a guard attached to the press frame or base
             (anvil).
             18.5.2.1.2.3. An interlocked barrier guard is attached to the press frame and base
             and has hinged or movable sections. The guard itself or the hinged or movable
             sections are locked in the closed position. The interlock also prevents opening the
             guard or the movable sections as long as the slide is in motion. The hinged or
             movable sections of the guard are intended for infrequent use such as setup or
             adjustment and not for manual feeding.
             18.5.2.1.2.4. An adjustable barrier guard is attached to the press bed, base or die
             shoe, and requires adjustment for each job or die setup. Only personnel authorized
             by the shop supervisor will perform adjustments.
         18.5.2.1.3. Since fixed guarding is not always possible due to the nature of an
         operation, certain devices are acceptable as a means of protection against point-of-
         operation hazards. When the following devices are properly installed and function
         properly, no other point-of-operation guarding is required unless the operation is such
         that a combination of guards or devices is necessary. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.212. and
         1910.217. for additional safe distance and maximum opening requirements.
             18.5.2.1.3.1. A movable barrier or gate device resembles an interlocked barrier
             guard in appearance since it is interlocked into the press clutch so slide motion
             cannot be initiated unless the gate is closed. There are two types of gates.
                 18.5.2.1.3.1.1. Type A gate must enclose the point of operation before a
                 stroke can be initiated and remain closed as long as the slide is moving.
                 18.5.2.1.3.1.2. Type B gate prevents entry only during the down stroke and
                 must prevent access prior to the start of the motion or die closure.
             18.5.2.1.3.2. Pull-out devices consist of operator wristbands connected by cords
             and linkage to the slide or upper die so, when the die descends, the operator‘s
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     217



           hands shall be automatically withdrawn from the point of operation if the worker
           has not already withdrawn them. Close supervision is required to ensure their use
           and proper alignment.
           18.5.2.1.3.3. Holdout or restraint devices consist of attachments for each of the
           operator‘s hands. These devices are securely anchored and adjusted to prevent the
           operator from reaching into the point of operation at any time.
           18.5.2.1.3.4. Presence-sensing devices are permitted only on part revolution
           clutch presses. A presence-sensing device is a light curtain or other type sensing
           field between the operator and the point of operation. It is interlocked into the
           control system so slide motion is prevented or stopped prior to die closure if the
           operator‘s hands or any part of the body is within the sensing field. Areas not
           protected by the presence-sensing devices must be guarded. Note: Presence-
           sensing devices shall not be used on machines using full revolution clutches, e.g.,
           power presses, or used as a tripping means to initiate motion.
           18.5.2.1.3.5. Sweep-type devices cannot be used as a single safeguard for point-
           of-operation guarding. These devices consist of single or double arms or rods
           attached to the slide of the presses to push the operator‘s hands away from the
           point of operation as the slide descends.
        18.5.2.1.4. Two-hand control devices are normally used on presses with a part
        revolution clutch. The operator must depress two (2) buttons concurrently to initiate
        slide motion. These buttons must be depressed continuously (holding time) on the
        downstroke or the clutch is disengaged, the brake applied, and the slide stops. Refer
        to 29 CFR 1910.217. for additional safe distance requirements.
           18.5.2.1.4.1. Two-hand trip devices, once pressed, do not have to be held during
           the downstroke, and the slide will stop only after it has completed a full cycle.
           The device is generally applicable to full revolution clutch presses.
           18.5.2.1.4.2. In addition to proper design, installation and correct operation, two-
           hand trips and presence-sensing devices shall be located far enough away from
           the point of operation (depending on the stopping time of the press) that when
           operators release the control buttons or disturb the presence-sensing field, they do
           not have time to reach into the point of operation before the die closes or slide
           stops.
           18.5.2.1.4.3. A control reliability system detects a failure within the controls and
           prevents initiation of a successive stroke until the failure is corrected.
           18.5.2.1.4.4. A brake monitor system monitors the performance of the brake on
           each stroke and automatically prevents the activation of a successive stroke if the
           stopping time or braking distance has deteriorated beyond the predetermined safe
           stopping distance.
           18.5.2.1.4.5. Safeguarding devices such as two-hand controls, presence-sensing
           devices, type B gates or movable barriers allow the operator to feed or remove
           parts by placing one or both hands in the point of operation. Therefore, when
218                                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      these devices are used on part revolution clutch presses, the control reliability
      system and brake monitor system are required to ensure operator safety.
      18.5.2.1.4.6. The energy controls shall be isolated by a lockout device and safety
      blocks installed during machine repairs or alterations of the die area.
      18.5.2.1.4.7. Single or dual hand-lever-operated power presses shall be equipped
      with a spring latch on the operating lever to prevent premature or accidental
      tripping.
      18.5.2.1.4.8. Operating levers on hand-tripped machinery with more than one
      operating station shall be interlocked so the machine can only be tripped when all
      levers are actuated concurrently.
      18.5.2.1.4.9. A means of selecting OFF, INCH, SINGLE STROKE or
      CONTINUOUS modes of operation (as applicable) shall be integrated with the
      clutch and/or brake control to govern the operating mode of the presses.
      18.5.2.1.4.10. During the inch operating mode, workers shall be protected by one
      of the following:
         18.5.2.1.4.10.1. Requiring concurrent use of both hands to actuate the clutch.
         18.5.2.1.4.10.2. A single control protected against accidental actuation. Note:
         The control shall be located so the worker cannot reach into the point of
         operation while actuating the control.
      18.5.2.1.4.11. Two-handed controls for single-stroke press machines shall ensure
      safe operation by design, construction and/or separation so:
         18.5.2.1.4.11.1. Concurrent use of both hands is required to trip the press.
         18.5.2.1.4.11.2. Machine adjustment can be made, but concurrent use of both
         hands is required during the die closing portion of the stroke.
         18.5.2.1.4.11.3. Repetitive operation is not possible unless controls are
         activated in proper sequence. The control systems shall require all operator
         hand controls are released before an interrupted stroke can be resumed.
      18.5.2.1.4.12. Individual operator two-hand trip controls shall be designed and
      constructed to require use of both hands to protect against unintentional operation.
      A control arrangement requiring concurrent operation of both operator hand
      controls shall be used. Bypass of control interlocks is prohibited.
      18.5.2.1.4.13. Two-hand trip systems on full-revolution-clutch machines shall
      provide anti-repeat protection for operators. When two-hand trip systems are used
      on multiple operator machines, each operator shall have a separate set of controls.
      18.5.2.1.4.14. Picks, pliers, tongs and other hand-feeding tools required for the
      safe handling of stock, dies or materials shall be provided to operators to
      supplement other guards. These tools shall not eliminate the need for required
      protective clothing, equipment or machine guarding. Additionally, a die setter‘s
      safety bar shall be used for turning the flywheel when the power is off.
      18.5.2.1.4.15. As an alternative or supplement to other guarding methods,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      219



            individual die guards shall be attached to the die shoe, stripper or die block in a
            fixed position. They shall be designed so the operator cannot reach over, under or
            around the guard into the danger zone.
                18.5.2.1.4.15.1. Attachment points shall be provided on dies requiring
                mechanical handling.
                18.5.2.1.4.15.2. Die stops or other means shall be used on inclined presses to
                prevent inadvertent movement of the die while setting or removing them.
     18.5.2.2. Hydraulic Press. Hydraulic power presses shall be safeguarded to prevent the
     operator‘s hands being placed between the dies during press cycling. Safeguards used
     include safeguarding by location or distance (paragraph 18.4.2.13), safeguarding by
     device (paragraph 18.4.2.13) and safeguarding by barrier or enclosure (paragraph
     18.4.2.14). Supervisors shall ensure:
        18.5.2.2.1. Controls meet requirements of paragraphs 18.5.2.15 and 18.5.2.16. The
        following additional features apply to hydraulic press controls.
            18.5.2.2.1.1. Two-hand control systems, when installed, shall incorporate an anti-
            repeat feature.
            18.5.2.2.1.2. A Stop and Auto Return switch, when provided, shall be color-
            coded yellow. Since it does not deactivate power or other controls, a power
            disconnect or Stop switch, capable of being locked, shall be provided.
        18.5.2.2.2. Control of energy sources as referenced in paragraph 18.4.2.11.
            18.5.2.2.2.1. Ensure pneumatic and hydraulic systems meet requirements of
            paragraph 18.5.2.19.
            18.5.2.2.2.2. Refer to paragraph 18.5.2.22 for requirements on safeguarding
            hydraulic presses equipped with automatic material clamping equipment.
     18.5.2.3. Press Brakes. The design and construction of a press brake are different from
     other ram function metalworking machines. The bed and ram, which are longer than
     other machines, are located in front of and extend beyond the machine‘s frame. This
     permits a much larger working area. Press brakes can be hydraulic or mechanical and are
     classified as either general purpose or special purpose. The operator controls the speed of
     the ram.
        18.5.2.3.1. Controls shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 18.5.2.15 and
        18.5.2.16.
        18.5.2.3.2. Energy sources shall be controlled as referenced in paragraph 18.4.2.11.
        18.5.2.3.3. Pneumatic and hydraulic systems shall meet requirements of paragraph
        18.5.2.19.
        18.5.2.3.4. Safeguarding the point of operation depends on the operation being
        performed. Proper safeguarding must be planned and installed by someone
        knowledgeable of both press brakes, in general, and the specific operation. A point-
        of-operation device (paragraph 18.4.2.13) or a point-of-operation barrier or enclosure
220                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         (paragraph 18.4.2.14) will guard the point of operation. Guarding by a safe distance
         (for example, maintaining a safe distance between the point of operation and a
         worker‘s hand and fingers while supporting stock) can only be used when barriers,
         enclosures or devices are not possible. The functional manager must approve
         guarding by safe distance. The supervisor shall ensure a proper guarding system is
         used for the material and work being performed. The following requirements shall be
         based upon the type of safeguard available and installed for the operation:
             18.5.2.3.4.1. Safeguarding by Distance or Location—paragraph 18.4.2.12.
             18.5.2.3.4.2. Safeguarding by Device—paragraph 18.4.2.13.
             18.5.2.3.4.3. Related Tools—paragraph 18.5.2.20.
             18.5.2.3.4.4. Safeguarding of     Power Transmission Equipment—paragraph
             18.5.2.21.
             18.5.2.3.4.5. Powered    Clamping,    Working     Holding    Devices—paragraph
             18.5.2.22.
      18.5.2.4. Shapers, Forming Rolls, Calenders and Cold Headers.
         18.5.2.4.1. Controls shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 18.5.2.15 and
         18.5.2.16.
         18.5.2.4.2. Energy sources shall be controlled as referenced in paragraph 18.4.2.11.
         18.5.2.4.3. All pneumatic and hydraulic components shall be designed and
         maintained to meet paragraph 18.5.2.19 requirements.
         18.5.2.4.4. The primary function of safeguards on these machines is to protect the
         operator‘s hands, fingers and other body parts from contacting the point of operation
         and slide mechanisms. Adjustable barrier or enclosure safeguards shall be used to the
         maximum extent possible. Safeguarding by location or distance should not be
         considered for these machines because of the frequent need for the worker to hold the
         work-piece. Regardless of the type selected, the requirements of paragraphs 18.4.2.13
         and 18.4.2.14 will be used in evaluating the safeguard.
             18.5.2.4.4.1. The rear of the reciprocating ram shall be guarded to protect other
             employees. Additional barrier guards shall be provided at refuse drop areas.
             18.5.2.4.4.2. A chip guard shall be provided to prevent flying chips from striking
             the operator or other workers. Note: All material shall be securely clamped in
             position on the machine table.
      18.5.2.5. Shears. There are two types of shears used in metalworking shops: powered
      and mechanical. Since both types perform the same basic function, safeguarding
      requirements for point of operation, movable parts, pinch points, and scrap deposit areas
      are also the same. Safeguarding shall be provided to protect the operators from the
      hazardous areas.
         18.5.2.5.1. Controls shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 18.5.2.15 and
         18.5.2.16.
         18.5.2.5.2. Energy sources shall be controlled as referenced in paragraph 18.4.2.11.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     221



        18.5.2.5.3. Pneumatic and hydraulic systems shall meet the standards of paragraph
        18.5.2.19.
        18.5.2.5.4. Barrier or enclosure guarding shall be considered the primary means of
        safeguarding shearing machines. Location or distance safeguarding may be
        considered but is normally not applicable due to the varying operations performed on
        shearing machines—paragraphs 18.4.2.13, 18.4.2.14, and 18.5.2.20 through 18.5.2.22
        shall be used to evaluate the adequacy of installed guards or devices. The area where
        sheared or punched refuse drops shall be barricaded to prevent injuries to operators
        and helpers. All shears shall be equipped with an emergency stop control. Refer to
        paragraph 18.5.2.18 for emergency stop control requirements.
     18.5.2.6. Lathes, Screw/Bar and Chucking Machines. Multiple-spindle machines are
     normally equipped with enclosures that isolate the point of operation from the operator.
     Additional hazard areas of all machines and operations that require safeguarding include
     powered work-holding devices, powered turrets and controls and operations where work
     pieces extend beyond the confines of the workspace.
        18.5.2.6.1. Controls shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 18.5.2.15 and
        18.5.2.16.
        18.5.2.6.2. Energy sources shall be controlled as referenced in paragraph 18.4.2.11.
        18.5.2.6.3. Pneumatic and hydraulic systems, when installed, shall meet the
        paragraph 18.5.2.19 standards.
        18.5.2.6.4. A fixed or movable barrier device or awareness device shall be installed
        when a lathe operates in the automatic or semi-automatic mode and a tool trapping
        space is created by the automatic advancing of rotating and non-rotating components.
        18.5.2.6.5. Power-indexed turrets containing an exceptionally long tool or tool-
        holding device that extends in the operator‘s workspace shall have a barrier guard,
        rigid awareness barrier (protective railing) or awareness device installed during
        machine operation. One of these safeguards shall also be installed when a rotating
        work-piece extends beyond the normal confines of the machine. Guards or devices
        are not required when tracing is being performed and the operator must initiate each
        cycle.
        18.5.2.6.6. All lathes procured after 6 October 1983, shall be equipped with a spindle
        braking device, if the operator must stop the spindle to manually unload a work piece.
        18.5.2.6.7. Chucks shall always be started on the lathe spindle by hand.
        18.5.2.6.8. The tail stock end of the work shall be countersunk deeply enough so
        there is minimal chance of the work being torn loose.
        18.5.2.6.9. Tools shall be adjusted in the tool rest so they are slightly above the
        center to keep the work from climbing. An exception is thread-cutting, where the tool
        should be at center.
        18.5.2.6.10. Chips in the process of being generated, such as long stringy chips, shall
        not be removed by hand. A tool, puller, brush or shovel shall be used.
222                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         18.5.2.6.11. Operators shall not attempt to brake the lathe by grasping the chuck,
         work or any other machine component.
      18.5.2.7. Drilling, Milling and Boring Machines. A barrier guard or guarding device
      shall be installed and used when machines are operated in an automatic or semi-
      automatic mode, cutting devices are exposed or any part of the operator‘s body is within
      one (1) foot of the cutting device. Awareness barriers can also be used; however, only in
      situations when a guard or guarding device would, of itself, present a hazard. The type of
      guarding shall depend on the machine, location and operation. Additionally, shields may
      be required to protect workers from chips and splashing coolant. The requirements
      identified in paragraph 18.5.2.20 shall apply to the design and installation of shields.
      Additionally, the following requirements for guards, machine components and operations
      apply.
         18.5.2.7.1. Operators shall not hand-hold stock while using these machines. When
         the cutting tool contacts the stock or work piece, it can catch or twist the material
         from the operator‘s grasp. The resulting uncontrolled rotation of the stock will cause
         injury to the operator. A hold-down fixture or stock vise shall be used to prevent these
         injuries.
         18.5.2.7.2. Drill chucks shall not have protruding set screws.
         18.5.2.7.3. Auxiliary devices, e.g., index heads, vises, drill or boring bits and extra
         tools, shall be properly stored.
         18.5.2.7.4. Drill presses shall not be operated at a speed greater than specified by the
         press or drill manufacturer for the particular material to be drilled.
         18.5.2.7.5. Automatic and high production drilling machines shall be equipped with
         barricades or enclosures to separate operators and other personnel from drilling
         operations. When steps or stairs are necessary for making adjustments to the machine
         or work, they shall be well constructed, provided with non-slip treads and in good
         repair.
         18.5.2.7.6. Controls shall meet the criteria of paragraphs 18.5.2.15 and 18.5.2.16.
         18.5.2.7.7. Energy sources shall be controlled as referenced in paragraph 18.4.2.11.
         18.5.2.7.8. When provided, pneumatic and hydraulic systems shall conform to
         paragraph 18.5.2.19.
      18.5.2.8. Planers. The reciprocating work and table shall be barricaded or enclosed to
      prevent personnel from being struck by material that is turning against the cutter.
         18.5.2.8.1. A chip shield shall be provided to prevent chips from flying and striking
         the operator or other workers.
         18.5.2.8.2. Safety dogs shall be placed at each end of the planer table to prevent the
         table from running off the gear rack.
         18.5.2.8.3. All material shall be securely clamped in position on the planer table.
      18.5.2.9. Saws. Safeguarding of metalworking saws varies depending on the type of
      machine and material being processed. The general requirements of paragraphs 18.5.2.15
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     223



     through 18.5.2.18.4 apply to all saws. The following paragraphs address the three (3)
     most common types of saws used in Air Force shops. For saws not covered, the
     supervisor and installation Ground Safety office shall develop requirements on machine
     safeguards. Refer to ANSI Standard B11.10, Safety Requirements for Metal Sawing
     Machines, for additional information.
     18.5.2.10. Bandsaws.
        18.5.2.10.1. Both upper and lower wheels shall be completely enclosed on both
        sides. The enclosures should be easily removed to permit saw blade maintenance.
        18.5.2.10.2. The working part of a saw blade, between the guide rolls and the upper
        wheel enclosure, shall be guarded to prevent accidental contact with the saw blade.
        The guard shall be self-adjusting and attached to the gauge so that, in any position of
        the gauge, the guard will completely cover the portion of the saw blade between the
        guide rolls and the upper wheel enclosure.
        18.5.2.10.3. Saws equipped with an automatic tension control to compensate for the
        contraction that takes place in the cooling of the blade after a job is finished and to
        ensure proper tension of the saw blade.
        18.5.2.10.4. Saws equipped with manual control (i.e., no automatic tension control),
        instructions/procedures for tension control shall be developed and operators shall be
        trained, and supervised, in proper tension adjustment(s).
        18.5.2.10.5. Feed rolls on self-fed bandsaws shall be guarded to prevent the
        operator‘s hands coming in contact with the in-running rolls at any point.
        18.5.2.10.6. Saw speed shall not exceed the safe limit recommended by the
        manufacturer.
     18.5.2.11. Hacksaws.
        18.5.2.11.1. Loss of coolant and lubricants from a power hacksaw shall be minimized
        by proper maintenance of the coolant system and installation of splash shields.
        18.5.2.11.2. Vises, fixtures and other work-holding equipment shall be used to hold
        the work piece securely.
        18.5.2.11.3. Stock being cut by a power hacksaw shall not be hand-held.
     18.5.2.12. Circular Metal Saws.
        18.5.2.12.1. The safeguard shall be of sufficient strength to protect the operator from
        a broken saw blade or teeth.
        18.5.2.12.2. It shall enclose the spindle end and nut.
        18.5.2.12.3. It shall be provided with an opening or means of removing chips that, in
        itself, shall not create a hazard to the operator.
        18.5.2.12.4. It shall enclose all unused portions of the exposed saw blade. The part of
        the blade used for cutting shall be protected by a barrier. The barrier shall be
        positioned to prevent the operator contacting the blade.
224                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         18.5.2.12.5. Loss of coolant and lubricants from the machine shall be minimized by
         proper maintenance of the coolant system and the installation of splash shields.
         18.5.2.12.6. Vises, fixtures and other work-holding equipment shall be used to hold
         the work piece securely.
         18.5.2.12.7. All circular sawing machines shall be equipped with a pair of flanges or
         blotter where required.
      18.5.2.13. Cut-Off and Contour Saws.
         18.5.2.13.1. Both the upper and lower wheels on both sides of saws shall be
         enclosed. The enclosure shall be hinged to permit easy access to the saw blade.
         18.5.2.13.2. The working part of the saw blade, between the guide rolls and upper
         wheel enclosure, shall be guarded to prevent accidental contact with the saw blade.
         The guard shall be self-adjusting and attached to the gauge so that, in any position of
         the gauge, the guard shall completely cover the saw blade between the guide rolls and
         upper wheel enclosure.
         18.5.2.13.3. Abrasive cut-off saws shall be connected to an exhaust system.
         18.5.2.13.4. Stock being cut by a cut-off or contour saw shall not be hand-held.
      18.5.2.14. Riveting Machines. A guard shall be provided to prevent operators from
      placing their hands between dies.
      18.5.2.15. Operator Controls.
         18.5.2.15.1. Controls shall be within easy reach of the machine operator and placed
         so the operator does not have to reach past moving parts that may cause injury.
         18.5.2.15.2. Controls shall be positioned or protected against accidental or
         inadvertent operation. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.217., Mechanical Power Presses, for
         additional information.
         18.5.2.15.3. Controls shall not be wedged for continuous operation.
         18.5.2.15.4. Controls shall be clearly identified when their function is not self-
         evident. They shall not initiate any motion unrelated to its designation.
         18.5.2.15.5. Jog circuits, if used, shall be designed to prevent continuous run or
         automatic operation.
         18.5.2.15.6. Foot (treadle) controls shall have a non-slip surface and be protected
         against unexpected and accidental tripping.
         18.5.2.15.7. Energy sources shall be controlled IAW paragraph 18.4.2.11.
      18.5.2.16. Mechanical Controls.
         18.5.2.16.1. Handwheels that turn in a clockwise rotation shall produce for the
         controlled component a linear movement to the right, away or upward. If rotary
         motion is produced by the handwheel, clockwise rotation shall cause clockwise
         movement of the controlled component.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       225



        18.5.2.16.2. Control levers shall move in the same direction as the controlled
        component when both motions are parallel.
        18.5.2.16.3. Crank and handwheel controls (with protrusions) that rotate at more than
        50 surface feet per minute shall have an adjustable barrier guard installed.
     18.5.2.17. Multiple Control Stations.
        18.5.2.17.1. When a setup control station is provided in addition to the normal
        operator‘s control station, selection of the setup station shall render the operator‘s
        station inoperative, except for emergency stop. Switching from one control station to
        another shall not create a hazard.
        18.5.2.17.2. When more than one operator is required to operate the machine from
        different control stations, each station shall be provided with a cycle start button that
        must be depressed concurrently in order to initiate the cycle.
        18.5.2.17.3. When one operator can operate the machine from more than one station,
        all cycle start buttons other than the one being used shall be made inoperative.
        18.5.2.17.4. Where parts are manually loaded and the operator may be exposed to a
        hazard due to cutter or machine table movements, the rapid traverse from one part or
        position to the other shall be initiated by the operator.
     18.5.2.18. Emergency Stop Control.
        18.5.2.18.1. All machines shall incorporate one or more emergency stop controls
        that, upon momentary operation, shall de-energize all machine motions. These
        emergency stops shall be located at each operator control station and, if inherent
        hazards are present at other operating positions, an emergency stop should be
        provided.
        18.5.2.18.2. The emergency stop shall be color coded red.
        18.5.2.18.3. The emergency stop control shall override all other controls and, when
        actuated, not create other hazards.
        18.5.2.18.4. All machine motions stopped by the emergency or master switch shall
        be restartable only by deliberate action by the operator.
     18.5.2.19. Pneumatic and Hydraulic Systems.
        18.5.2.19.1. Circuits shall be designed and components selected, applied and
        adjusted so loss of control media (fluid, air, etc.) shall not cause a hazard.
        18.5.2.19.2. Circuits shall be designed and components applied so pressure variations
        will not cause a hazard.
        18.5.2.19.3. Components shall be used that cannot be adjusted outside the safe
        working range of the circuit.
        18.5.2.19.4. Means shall be provided to prevent operation when loss of working
        pressure could cause a hazard.
226                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         18.5.2.19.5. Circuits employing accumulator tanks shall automatically vent the
         accumulator pressure or isolate the accumulator when the machine is shut off.
         18.5.2.19.6. Non-vented accumulators shall be identified with a sign that says
         ―WARNING: PRESSURIZED VESSEL‖ or the nearest commercially available
         equivalent. Charging and discharging information for proper servicing of non-vented
         accumulators shall be given on or near the accumulator (in a visible location) and in
         the maintenance manual.
         18.5.2.19.7. Gas-charged accumulators operating above 200 pounds per square inch,
         gauge (psig) charging pressure, shall be charged with inert gas.
         18.5.2.19.8. Flexible hoses shall be arranged so they will not create a tripping hazard.
         Where failure of flexible hoses may constitute a whipping hazard, they shall be
         restrained or contained.
         18.5.2.19.9. Whenever pressure is maintained after power is off, such as in
         counterbalance or accumulator circuits, a warning plate shall be used and procedures
         for depressurizing the circuit shall be documented in the maintenance manual.
      18.5.2.20. Related Equipment. While these aids do not give complete protection from
      machine hazards, they could provide the operator an extra margin of safety. Since these
      aids are not used in place of safeguards, sound judgment is needed in their application.
         18.5.2.20.1. Shields may be used to provide protection from flying particles. When
         chips or coolant fluids are splashed on the operator or on the work area and
         passageway floor, a splash shield shall be installed.
         18.5.2.20.2. Holding tools designed to aid material placement in and out of
         machinery shall be used when it would otherwise be necessary to place hands in the
         danger zone. These tools are not considered a substitute for guarding, but will be used
         to supplement guard protection provided.
         18.5.2.20.3. Awareness barriers do not provide physical protection, but are only to
         remind a person that he or she is approaching the danger area. Generally, awareness
         barriers are not considered adequate where continual exposure to the hazard exists.
      18.5.2.21. Transmission Belts and Pulleys.
         18.5.2.21.1. Horizontal belts and ropes above floors or platforms shall be guarded for
         their entire length if located over passageways or workplaces, if center-to-center
         distance between pulleys is 10 feet or more, or if the belt is 8 inches or more in width.
         18.5.2.21.2. Vertical belts running over a lower pulley above the floor or platform
         shall be guarded at the bottom in the same manner as overhead belts.
         18.5.2.21.3. Where loose pulleys or idlers are not practical, belt perches in the form
         of brackets, rollers, etc., shall be used to keep idler belts away from the shafts.
         Perches shall be of strong materials and designed for safe shifting of belts.
         18.5.2.21.4. Belt dressing shall not be applied when the belt or rope is in motion.
         However, if necessary, it shall be applied where belts leave the pulleys, not where
         they approach them.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        227



         18.5.2.21.5. Unless the distance to the nearest fixed pulley, clutch or hanger exceeds
         the width of the belt used, a guard shall be provided to prevent the belt from leaving
         the pulley on the side where insufficient clearance exists. Where there are
         overhanging pulleys on a line, jack or countershaft, with no bearing between the
         pulley and the outer end of the shaft, a guard to prevent the belt from running off the
         pulley shall be installed.
         18.5.2.21.6. Pulleys with cracks or pieces broken out of rims shall be taken out of
         service.
         18.5.2.21.7. Pulleys used in areas where they would be exposed to corrosion shall be
         made of corrosion-resistant material. Pulleys located in corrosive environments shall
         be inspected semiannually to ensure they are in satisfactory condition.
      18.5.2.22. Powered Clamping, Work Holding Devices. These shall be provided with a
      safeguard to warn the operator or contain the work piece when there is a lack of clamping
      pressure. An electrical interlock can be installed which shuts down power to a lathe when
      hydraulic pressure drops or electrical interruption occurs. A retaining cover or barrier
      guard can also be used. Another method for protecting personnel is an audible or visual
      warning device that shall be visible or audible to the operator at his normal work position.
18.6. Permanently Installed Grinding Machines.
   18.6.1. Hazards and Human Factors.
      18.6.1.1. Hazards. Personnel injuries and property damage can result from improper use,
      care or storage of abrasive wheels and associated equipment. Material failure hazards
      include:
         18.6.1.1.1. Improper mounting of wheels to machinery, excess pressure on work
         surface causing heat and vibration that leads to abrasive wheel deterioration or
         destruction, use of wheel speeds greater than manufacturer‘s ratings, improper storage
         practices causing damage to wheels, wires expelled from brush wheels, particles
         ejected or thrown from the material being worked and vibration that may burst wheels
         or disks.
         18.6.1.1.2. Procedural hazards include holding the work incorrectly; using the wrong
         type wheel; grinding on the side of a wheel not designed for side wheel grinding;
         taking too heavy a cut; applying work too quickly to a cold wheel or disk; grinding
         too high above the center of a wheel; failing to use wheel washers (blotters);
         incorrectly adjusting or lacking a work rest; using spindles of incorrect diameter or
         with the threads cut so the nut loosens as the spindle revolves; installing flanges of
         the wrong size, with unequal diameters or unrelieved centers; or dressing of wheels
         incorrectly, resulting in off-center conditions or fracture strains.
      18.6.1.2. Human Factors. Worker and supervisor attitudes and attentiveness are
      important factors in working safely with abrasive wheel machinery. Monotony and
      fatigue interact when repetitive work is performed over a long period of time. Exposure
      to noise, heat, dust and vibration is frequently present. Constant operator attention is
228                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      essential. Some human factors-related situations and mishaps associated with abrasive
      wheel operations are:
         18.6.1.2.1. Eye and face injuries when face shields or goggles are not used in
         addition to the shield mounted on the grinder.
         18.6.1.2.2. Injury to body parts from contact with revolving wheels or unguarded
         moving parts, with monotony and fatigue as contributing factors.
         18.6.1.2.3. Respiratory problems caused by inhalation of abrasive wheel dust and
         failure to use face respirators where required.
         18.6.1.2.4. Hearing loss caused by exposure to noise in excess of threshold limit
         values and failure to use hearing protection devices supplied for this purpose.
  18.6.2. Requirements.
      18.6.2.1. Exhaust Ventilation. Wherever dry grinding, polishing or buffing is performed
      and worker exposure (without regard to the use of respirators) exceeds occupational and
      environmental exposure limits (OEELs), a local exhaust ventilation system shall be
      provided and used to reduce employee exposures. BE shall determine if exhaust
      ventilation is needed. When required, exhaust systems shall conform to criteria in the
      most current version of the ACGIH‘s ventilation design standards. Also refer to 29 CFR
      1910.94., Ventilation, for additional information.
      18.6.2.2. Wheel and Spindle Speeds.
         18.6.2.2.1. The spindle rpm of grinders shall be shown on the machine in a location
         readily visible to the operator. It is the supervisor‘s and worker‘s responsibility to
         verify the speed of the wheel spindle to ensure the speed is correct for the size and
         type of wheel used. Refer to ANSI Standard B11.9., Safety Requirements for the
         Construction, Care, and Use of Grinding Machines, for additional information.
         18.6.2.2.2. All grinding wheels shall have the operating speed affixed to the wheel.
         Those without a rating shall be tagged and removed from service until the rpm rating
         is validated.
      18.6.2.3. Safe Operating Procedures.
         18.6.2.3.1. Abrasive wheel machines shall not be operated unless safety guards are
         installed as outlined in paragraph 18.5.2.6 except wheels used for internal work where
         the work offers protection. See Figure 18.3 for types 16, 17, 18, 18R and 19 cones,
         plugs and threaded hole pot balls as examples of those not requiring guards while
         used for internal work. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.215, Abrasive Wheel Machinery, for
         additional information.
         18.6.2.3.2. Peripheral protectors, commonly referred to as tongue guards, shall be
         positioned so the opening between the wheel and the guard is no more than 1/4 inch.
         Refer to paragraph 18.5.2.6 for additional information on tongue guards and 29 CFR
         1910.215. for additional information.
         18.6.2.3.3. Work rests shall be used during all off-hand grinding operations. They
         shall be of rigid construction and designed to be adjustable to compensate for wheel
         wear. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.215. for additional information.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     229



            18.6.2.3.3.1. Adjust these devices closely to the wheel with a maximum opening
            of 1/8 inch to prevent the work being jammed between the wheel and rest.
            Jamming the work piece could break the wheel and cause personnel injury. Work
            rests shall be securely clamped after each adjustment and the adjustment shall not
            be made with the wheel in motion. In those instances where jamming or contact
            with a grinding wheel is precluded by the size of the work piece, a side guard
            offers sufficient protection to the operator. Accordingly, in such situations, the
            requisite to have a work rest adjusted to a maximum opening of 1/8 inch is not
            required. However, work rest clearance shall not exceed the width of the work
            piece. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.215. for additional information.
            18.6.2.3.3.2. Do not grind stock that is thin enough to be pulled between the work
            rest and the wheel.
        18.6.2.3.4. Machines shall be operated within rated speeds at all times. Refer to 29
        CFR 1910.215. for additional information.
        18.6.2.3.5. Wheels found defective, cracked or out of balance shall be taken out of
        service until repaired or discarded. Wheels shall be removed from service when they
        are worn to a size that would allow the flange assembly to contact the piece being
        ground or the work rest.
        18.6.2.3.6. The operator shall stand to one side whenever grinding machines are
        initially turned on, until the wheel has reached its operating speed and when going
        from operating speed to the stopped position.
        18.6.2.3.7. The machine will be stopped and inspected to determine the cause of
        chattering or vibration.
        18.6.2.3.8. Abrasive grinding wheels shall not be used to grind aluminum, brass,
        copper or other soft metals unless the wheel is specifically designed for that purpose.
        Soft metal wheels shall be used to grind soft metals only.
        18.6.2.3.9. Side wheel grinding shall be accomplished only on wheels designed for
        that purpose.
        18.6.2.3.10. Operators shall ensure that grinders, buffers and wire brush machines are
        turned off when work is completed or before leaving the vicinity of the machine.
     18.6.2.3.11. Machine operators shall not wear loose-fitting clothing that may become
     entangled in moving parts or power transmission apparatus.
        18.6.2.3.12. PPE required for abrasive grinding operations is dependent on the
        material being processed. As a minimum, operators shall wear the proper eye and
        face protection (e.g., face shield, goggles or spectacles) identified in Chapter 14,
        Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Shop aprons of heavy construction shall be
        worn when operations are performed on a continuing or prolonged basis. Gloves shall
        be worn when burrs or rough edges present a hazard to the worker‘s hands.
        18.6.2.3.13. Holding tools designed to aid material placement in and out of
        machinery shall be used when it would otherwise be necessary to place hands in the
        danger zone.
230                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         18.6.2.3.14. Wire brush wheel operators shall wear protective aprons of heavy
         construction and a face shield. Care must be exercised when gloves are used to ensure
         they are not snagged by the rotating brushes and pulled into the wheel.
         18.6.2.3.15. Polishing and buffing wheel operators shall wear face shields.
      18.6.2.4. Inspections. Grinding machines shall be inspected prior to use. The following
      minimum items shall be checked unless manufacturer‘s instructions require more
      stringent inspection criteria.
         18.6.2.4.1. Work rest, for security and proper adjustment, e.g., 1/8 inch maximum
         opening.
         18.6.2.4.2. Wheels, for security and condition, e.g., cracks, gouges, chipped edges or
         uneven wear.
         18.6.2.4.3. Wheels, for evidence of side grinding or grinding of soft metals when the
         wheels are not designed for these purposes.
         18.6.2.4.4. Shatter-resistant transparent shields, for cleanliness, scoring and proper
         placement.
         18.6.2.4.5. Machine guards and power transmission guards, for condition, security
         and proper alignment.
         18.6.2.4.6. Periphery (tongue) guards for security and proper adjustment, e.g., 1/4
         inch maximum opening.
         18.6.2.4.7. Proper lighting at point of operation.
      18.6.2.5. Maintenance and Lubrication. Maintenance on grinding equipment shall not be
      accomplished until the machine power source is turned off and locked out or the power
      cord is unplugged.
         18.6.2.5.1. Wheel Mounting. Incorrect mounting of an abrasive wheel is responsible
         for much wheel breakage. Compression forces, radial forces and grinding heat cause
         stresses around the central hole of the wheel. It is most important that manufacturer‘s
         recommendations concerning size and design of mounting flanges and mounting
         techniques be followed prior to any maintenance. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.215.,
         Abrasive Wheel Machinery, on additional information on wheel mounting and the
         following subsets of wheel mounting.
             18.6.2.5.1.1. Operating Speed. Before mounting the wheel, check the spindle
             speed of the machine to ensure it does not exceed the maximum operating speed
             marked on the wheel.
             18.6.2.5.1.2. Shelf Life. Check that the shelf life requirements of the wheel have
             not been exceeded (if applicable).
             18.6.2.5.1.3. Inspection. Visually inspect and perform a ring test on wheels.
             Defects such as broken, chipped or gouged wheels can be easily detected, but
             cracks are frequently not visible to the naked eye. Tap wheels gently with a light
             nonmetallic implement such as the handle of a screwdriver for light wheels, or
             with a wooden mallet for heavier wheels. See Figure 18.1. If they sound dead, a
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   231



           crack exists. Do not use them. This procedure is known as a ring test and is
           performed as follows:
              18.6.2.5.1.3.1. Ensure wheels are dry and free from sawdust when performing
              the ring test; otherwise they do not ring clear. Organic bonded wheels do not
              emit the same clear metallic ring as do vitrified and silicate wheels.
              18.6.2.5.1.3.2. Tap wheels about 45 degrees at each side of the vertical
              centerline and about 1 or 2 inches from the periphery. See Figure 18.1. Then
              rotate 45 degrees and repeat the test. A sound and undamaged wheel will give
              a clear ring. If cracked, there will be a dead sound.
           18.6.2.5.1.4. Arbor Size. Ensure grinding wheels fit freely on the spindle and
           remain free under all grinding conditions. Proper clearance between the wheel
           arbor hole and the machine spindle is essential to avoid excessive pressure due to
           mounting and spindle heat expansion.
           18.6.2.5.1.5. Surface Condition. Ensure all contact surfaces of wheels, blotters
           and flanges are flat and free of foreign matter. Uneven mounting pressure against
           the side of a wheel causes stress that could lead to wheel failure.
           18.6.2.5.1.6. Reducing Bushing. If a bushing is used in the wheel hole, ensure it
           does not exceed the width of the wheel and does not contact the flange.
           18.6.2.5.1.7. Flanges. Mount all abrasive wheels between flanges that are not less
           than 1/3 the diameter of the wheel. Exceptions include mounted wheels, threaded
           wheels (plug and core), plate mounted wheels and cylinder, cup or segmental
           wheels mounted in chucks. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.215 for detailed information on
           exceptions.
              18.6.2.5.1.7.1. Flanges shall be dimensionally accurate and in good balance.
              There shall be no rough surfaces or sharp edges.
              18.6.2.5.1.7.2. Both flanges shall be the same diameter and have equal
              bearing surface. Exceptions to this are type 27 and type 28 wheels. Refer to
              Figure 18.2.
              18.6.2.5.1.7.3. The driving flange shall be securely fastened to the spindle
              and the bearing surface shall run true. When more than one wheel is mounted
              between a single set of flanges, wheels may be cemented together or separated
              by specially designed spacers. Spacers shall be equal in diameter to the
              mounting flanges and have equal bearing surfaces. Blotters shall not be used
              as spacers; normally soft copper or brass shall be used. If wheels are to be
              cemented together, the wheel manufacturer‘s recommendation shall be
              followed.
              18.6.2.5.1.7.4. All flanges shall be maintained in good condition. When
              bearing surfaces become worn, warped, sprung or damaged, they shall be
              trued and resurfaced. When resurfacing or truing, material shall not be
              removed from the flange to the point that it loses its rigidity.
           18.6.2.5.1.8. Blotters. Use blotters between flanges and abrasive wheel surfaces
232                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         to ensure uniform distribution of flange pressure (See Figure 18.2). Exceptions
         include mounted wheels, threaded wheels (plug and core), plate mounted wheels
         and cylinder, cup or segmental wheels mounted in chucks. When blotters are
         required, ensure they cover the entire contact area of wheel flanges. The proper
         thickness of blotters depends upon the type of material used. OSHA addresses
         only blotting paper (.025 thickness), but rubber, leather and felt are all acceptable.
         Follow the manufacturer‘s recommendation.
         18.6.2.5.1.9. Multiple Wheel Mounting. When more than one wheel is mounted
         between a single set of flanges, cement wheels together or separate them by
         specially designed spacers. Spacers shall be equal in diameter to the mounting
         flanges and have equal bearing surfaces. When mounting wheels that have not
         been cemented together, or ones that do not utilize separating spacers, care must
         be exercised to use wheels specially manufactured for that purpose.
         18.6.2.5.1.10. Start Up Procedures. Do not operate machines until the safety
         guards are in place. After the guards are reinstalled, rotate the wheel several
         revolutions by hand to ensure it clears both the work rest and the safety guards.
         Defective wheels are most likely to break when first started; therefore, run newly
         installed wheels at full operating speed for at least one (1) minute before work is
         applied. During this time, ensure operator and other personnel stand clear of the
         machine.
      18.6.2.5.2. Wheel Dressing. Damaged or out-of-balance abrasive wheels produce
      poor work and may injure the operator. To restore a rutted, excessively rough or
      unbalanced wheel, it is necessary to dress it by removing part of the face. Wheel
      dressing tools shall be equipped with hood guards over the tops of cutters to protect
      the operator from flying wheel particles or pieces of broken cutters. The dresser shall
      be supported on the work rest and the work rest shall be adjusted away from the
      wheel so the heel of the dresser may hook over the work rest and be guided by it as
      the dresser is moved evenly back and forth across the wheel face. Dressing shall be
      done only by personnel trained in this task. Operators performing dressing operations
      will:
         18.6.2.5.2.1. Wear a face shield over safety glasses for face protection and a
         respirator, if conditions warrant.
         18.6.2.5.2.2. Use a dressing tool with a cutting head equal in width to the width
         of the grinding wheel. A dresser containing self-traversing star wheels in the
         cutting head requiring the operator to simply place the dresser against the wheel
         and apply pressure is preferred. The work rest is not required as a guide in order
         to properly dress the wheel utilizing this dressing tool.
         18.6.2.5.2.3. Inspect star dressers for loose shaft and worn discs prior to use.
         18.6.2.5.2.4. Round off wheel edges with a hand stone before and after dressing
         to prevent the edges from chipping.
         18.6.2.5.2.5. Use a work rest to support and guide the tool. Use a tool holder if
         one is available.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      233



            18.6.2.5.2.6. Apply moderate pressure slowly and evenly.
            18.6.2.5.2.7. Always apply diamond dressers at the center or slightly below the
            center of the wheel.
        18.6.2.5.3. Lubrication. Grinding machine spindle bearings shall be properly
        lubricated to prevent overheating or other conditions that might damage the abrasive
        wheel. Lubrication intervals shall be established based on the manufacturer‘s
        recommendations, or more stringent criteria may be adopted if usage experience
        requires. Improperly lubricated spindle bearings will cause the mounting spindle to
        expand because of heat generated, thus exerting a stress in the arbor hole area. Other
        adverse conditions related to improper lubrication can cause vibration that may result
        in a broken wheel.
     18.6.2.6. Guarding. Guards shall be used on grinding machines except wheels used for
     internal work where the work offers protection. Types 16, 17, 18, 18R and 19 cones,
     plugs and threaded hole pot balls are examples of wheels not requiring guards while used
     for internal work (See Figure 18.3). On other wheels, the guard shall cover the spindle
     end, nut and flange projections, and be mounted to maintain proper alignment with the
     wheel. Fasteners used to mount the guard shall equal or exceed the strength of the guard.
     An exception to this is where the work itself provides adequate protection. The maximum
     exposure angles specified below shall not be exceeded. Visors or other accessory
     equipment shall not be included as part of the guard when measuring guard opening,
     unless such equipment offers the same protection as the guard and unless the accessory
     equipment is fastened as securely as the guard. For this and the following sub-paragraphs,
     refer to 29 CFR 1910.215. for additional information.
        18.6.2.6.1. Bench and Floor Stand (Pedestal) Grinders. The angular exposure of the
        grinding wheel periphery and sides for safety guards on these machines shall not
        exceed 90 degrees or 1/4 the periphery. This exposure shall begin at a point not more
        than 65 degrees above the horizontal plane of the wheel spindle. Wherever the nature
        of the work requires contact with the wheel below the horizontal plane of the spindle,
        the exposure shall not exceed 125 degrees (See Figures 18.4 and 18.5). Where the
        operator stands in front of the opening, these units shall be equipped with a peripheral
        protector (tongue guard) that can be adjusted to the decreasing diameter of the wheel.
        The opening shall be maintained at no more than 1/4 inch.
        18.6.2.6.2. Cylindrical Grinders. The maximum angular exposure of the grinding
        wheel periphery and sides for safety guards used on cylindrical grinding machines
        shall not exceed 180 degrees. This exposure shall begin at a point not more than 65
        degrees above the horizontal plane of the wheel spindle (See Figure 18.6). Tongue
        guard protective requirements of paragraph 18.5.2.6 also apply to cylindrical grinders.
        18.6.2.6.3. Top Grinding Operations. Where the work is applied to the wheel above
        the horizontal centerline, the exposure of the grinding wheel periphery shall be as
        small as possible and shall not exceed 60 degrees (See Figure 18.7).
234                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         18.6.2.6.4. Additional Types of Grinders. Equipment in the following paragraphs has
         minimal use at most Air Force installations. Organizations using this equipment shall
         develop guard criteria using 29 CFR 1910.215.
             18.6.2.6.4.1. Cup wheels.
             18.6.2.6.4.2. Surface grinders and cutting-off machines.
             18.6.2.6.4.3. Swing frame grinders.
             18.6.2.6.4.4. Automatic snagging machines.
             18.6.2.6.4.5. Band-type guards.
         18.6.2.6.5. Guard Material and Design. Locally manufactured guards shall meet
         requirements of 29 CFR 1910.215.
         18.6.2.6.6. Shields. Shatter-resistant transparent shields shall be provided as an added
         margin of safety on grinding machines.
         18.6.2.6.7. Power Transmission. When power transmission apparatus is separate
         from the grinding machine, refer to paragraph 18.5.2.21 for guarding requirements.
      18.6.2.7. Wet Grinding. Machines shall meet the same criteria for guarding, work rests
      and machine set up as for other abrasive wheel machinery. The following also apply:
         18.6.2.7.1. When shutting down a wet grinding operation, the coolant shall be shut
         off first and the wheel allowed to rotate until the coolant has been spun out.
         18.6.2.7.2. Wet process grinding wheels shall not be left partially submerged in water
         because this may cause an unbalanced wheel that may break when rotated.
         18.6.2.7.3. The concentration and alkalinity of coolant affects organic bonded
         wheels. To avoid damage to these wheels, it is important to follow the manufacturer‘s
         instructions.
         18.6.2.7.4. Floor surfaces around wet processes shall be of rough concrete or shall
         have nonskid materials or mats applied to reduce slipping hazards.
      18.6.2.8. Wheel Storage. Abrasive wheels are easily broken; therefore, care shall be
      exercised in handling and storage to prevent damage.
         18.6.2.8.1. Wheels shall be stored in a dry area not subject to extreme temperature
         changes or below freezing temperatures. Wet wheels may crack or break if stored
         below 32 degrees Fahrenheit. Breakage may also occur if a wheel or disk is taken
         from a cold storage room and work is applied to it before it is warmed to room
         temperature.
         18.6.2.8.2. Storage shall be arranged to allow wheel selection and removal without
         damaging other wheels.
         18.6.2.8.3. Thin organic bonded cutting wheels shall be laid on a flat horizontal
         surface away from heat.
         18.6.2.8.4. Straight or tapered wheels are best stored when supported on edge in
         racks.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        235



          18.6.2.8.5. Wheels shall be dated when placed in storage so they can be issued oldest
          first. Manufacturer‘s instructions shall be checked to see if wheels or discs have a
          shelf life requirement and to see if they have special handling or storage requirements
          that could affect their safe use.
          18.6.2.8.6. Wheels that cannot be hand carried shall be moved by hand trucks or
          powered trucks. Wheels shall not be rolled on the floor. When moving wheels by
          truck, workers shall avoid bumps and irregular surfaces.
          18.6.2.8.7. Wheel storage areas should be as close to the grinding operation as
          practical.
          18.6.2.8.8. Wheels that are bumped, dropped or show evidence of abuse shall be
          inspected using procedures in paragraph 18.6.2.5.1.3 prior to being placed in storage.
          Those found unsatisfactory shall be tagged and discarded unless repairs can be
          performed.
      18.6.2.9. Polishing and Buffing Wheels.
          18.6.2.9.1. The softness of these wheels is controlled by the size of the flange. The
          larger the flange, the harder the surface. Special wheel dressing tools may also be
          used to soften the surface.
          18.6.2.9.2. When polishing and buffing wheels are driven by variable speed motors,
          speed controls shall be safeguarded from accidental change.
          18.6.2.9.3. When rouge or tripoli is applied to a rotating wheel, the side of the cake
          shall be held lightly against the wheel‘s periphery. If a stick is used, the side of the
          stick shall be applied so that it will fly away from the wheel.
          18.6.2.9.4. Tool rests are not required for wire buffers and polishers.
      18.6.2.10. Special Grinding Operations. Grinding materials such as magnesium,
      titanium, thorium and beryllium present fire and health hazards. Supervisors of these
      operations shall contact the installation Ground Safety office, Fire Emergency Services
      (FES) Flight and BE for assistance in determining safe work practices and protective
      equipment needs.

Table 18.1. OSHA Standards.
                                     OSHA Standards
Subject                                                     OSHA Standard
The Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)            29 CFR 1910.147
Machinery & Machine Guarding                                29 CFR 1910 Subpart O
Machinery & Machine Guarding (Definitions)                  29 CFR 1910.211
General Requirements for all Machines                       29 CFR 1910.212
Woodworking Machinery Requirements                          29 CFR 1910.213
Abrasive Wheel Machinery                                    29 CFR 1910.215
Mechanical Power Presses                                    29 CFR 1910.217
Mechanical Power Transmission Apparatus                     29 CFR 1910.219
 236                                           AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 18.1. Tapping Locations on Ring Test.




Figure 18.2. Flange Installation.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                              237



Figure 18.3. Types 16, 17, 18, 18R and 19 Cone and Plug Wheels.




Figure 18.4. Bench and Floor Stand Grinder Guard Exposure Angles.
 238                                                       AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 18.5. Bench and Floor Stand Grinder Guard Exposure Angles When Contact
Below the Horizontal Plane of the Spindle is Required.




Figure 18.6. Cylindrical Grinder Guard Exposure Angles.




Figure 18.7. Top Grinding Guard Exposure Angles.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         239



18.7. Machinery Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this
instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist
that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety
staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual location or
shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   18.7.1. Does the hood cover the part of the saw blade exposed above the material? Reference
   18.4.2.1.1
   18.7.2. Is a spreader provided at the table saw to prevent the wood from clamping down on
   the saw blade? Reference 18.4.2.1.2
   18.7.3. Are table throat openings kept as small as possible to prevent material from dropping
   below the level of the table? Reference 18.4.2.1.3
   18.7.4. Are anti-kickback dogs and fingers or safety hold-down wheels installed when
   material is being ripped? Reference 18.4.2.1.4
   18.7.5. Are anti-kickback dogs and fingers inspected before each use? Reference 18.4.2.1.4
   18.7.6. Is the blade or cutting head inspected for proper cutting condition (e.g., teeth sharp
   and properly set, no cracks, free of foreign residue) before a job is started? Reference
   18.4.2.1.8
   18.7.7. Do Services hobby shop supervisors label each saw with a sign or decal that states
   which type blade is installed and what it is used for? Reference 18.4.2.1.9.1
   18.7.8. Do operators take care not to crowd the saw (force material faster than it can be cut)?
   Reference 18.4.2.1.10
   18.7.9. Is a permanent line marked on the table in front of and in line with the saw blade to
   enable the operator to set the rip fence without lifting the saw guard? Reference 18.4.2.1.11
   18.7.10. Are hands kept out of the line of cut when feeding saws? Reference 18.4.2.1.12
   18.7.11. Are feather boards used as side guides and top hold-downs on operations
   (rabbeting, grooving and dadoing) when a saw blade hood cannot be used? Reference
   18.4.2.1.15
   18.7.12. Are radial saws equipped with a hood that encloses the saw blade and arbor ends?
   Reference 18.4.2.2.1
   18.7.13. Is the lower section of the hood hinged so it rises and falls, adjusting itself
   automatically to the thickness of the material as the saw passes through it? Reference
   18.4.2.2.1
   18.7.14. Does the saw have a positive limit-stop to prevent the saw from traveling beyond
   the front edge of the table? Reference 18.4.2.2.8
   18.7.15. Is the direction of saw rotation conspicuously marked on the hood? Reference
   18.4.2.2.11
240                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  18.7.16. Is a permanent decal that reads ―DANGER: DO NOT RIP OR PLOUGH FROM
  THIS END‖ affixed to the rear of the saw guard at approximately arbor level? Reference
  18.4.2.2.11
  18.7.17. Is the locking device on the saw head securely fastened when angle or miter cuts are
  made? Reference 18.4.2.2.13
  18.7.18. When removing short pieces from a table close to a saw blade, does the operator
  ease the saw back to the idling position and make sure all bouncing has stopped before
  placing hands on the table? Reference 18.4.2.2.16
  18.7.19. Are both upper and lower wheels completely enclosed on both sides of band saws?
  Reference 18.4.2.3.1
  18.7.20. Is the band saw guard self-adjusting, and does it completely cover the portion of the
  saw blade between the guide rolls and the upper wheel enclosure? Reference 18.4.2.3.2
  18.7.21. If material binds or pinches on the blade, is the saw turned off and blade motion
  allowed to stop before the operator attempts to back the work away from the blade?
  Reference 18.4.2.3.6
  18.7.22. Are jointers with front-table-mounted fences equipped with an adjustable device to
  prevent thin stock from slipping laterally under the portion of the fence at the rear of the
  table? Reference 18.4.2.4.3
  18.7.23. Is an automatic guard provided to cover the working and nonworking side sections
  of the planer/jointer cutter head and prevent any opening between the guard and wood during
  the operation? Reference 18.4.2.4.4
  18.7.24. Do planer/jointer operators use hold-down push blocks, jigs or fixtures? Reference
  18.4.2.4.7
  18.7.25. Are guards provided for feed rolls, cutting heads and hold-down rolls at the
  discharge end of power feed planers? Reference 18.4.2.5.1
  18.7.26. Are feed rolls guarded by a metal strip in front of the rolls that will prevent an
  operator‘s fingers being drawn into the planer/jointer? Reference 18.4.2.5.1
  18.7.27. When other than corrugated top feeders are used, is an anti-kickback device
  installed on the planer? Reference 18.4.2.5.2
  18.7.28. Are shapers equipped with a braking device that will stop the cutting head within 10
  seconds after power is shut off? Reference 18.4.2.6.1
  18.7.29. Is a double-spindle shaper machine equipped with separate braking devices?
  Reference 18.4.2.6.1.
  18.7.30. Does the shaper fence extend at least 18 inches on either side of the spindle?
  Reference 18.4.2.6.2.
  18.7.31. Is a hinged metal shield or hood provided on rotating, cutter-type lathes? Reference
  18.4.2.7.1.
  18.7.32. Is a brake installed on automatic lathes? Reference 18.4.2.7.2.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      241



  18.7.33. Are guards that will contain the workpiece if it separates from its anchorage
  installed on lathes used for turning long pieces of material? Reference 18.4.2.7.6.
  18.7.34. Is a guard installed on the feed rolls of self-feed sanding machines? Reference
  18.4.2.8.1.
  18.7.35. Are guards installed at each nip point on a belt sanding machine? Reference
  18.4.2.8.2.
  18.7.36. Are hold-down devices installed on table-type boring or mortising machines?
  Reference 18.4.2.9.4.6.
  18.7.37. Are feed chains and sprockets of double end tenoning machines completely
  enclosed? Reference 18.4.2.10.1.
  18.7.38. Is the motor START switch on the machine protected against accidental or
  inadvertent operation? Reference 18.4.2.11.1
  18.7.39. Is machinery installed IAW the NEC? Reference 18.4.2.11.2
  18.7.40. Are control switches available to workers at their operating positions so they do not
  need to reach over moving parts of machinery? Reference 18.4.2.11.3
  18.7.41. Is the stop control switch identified by a printed word or color coded red?
  Reference 18.4.2.11.3
  18.7.42. Are under-voltage protective devices installed on machines that are not safeguarded
  to protect the worker during under-voltage situations? Reference 18.4.2.11.4
  18.7.43. Have installation safety offices and shop supervisors identified those machines that
  require under-voltage protection? Reference 18.4.2.11.4
  18.7.44. Are foot treadle controls protected against unexpected or accidental tripping?
  Reference 18.4.2.11.5
  18.7.45. Are exposed non-current-carrying metal components of machines grounded?
  Reference18.4.2.11.6)
  18.7.46. Are all machine energy sources or energy isolating devices, such as disconnect
  switches or circuit breakers, locked out or tagged out before maintenance is performed or
  major adjustments are made with guards and panels removed? Reference 18.4.2.11.7
  18.7.47. Are proper lockout/tagout procedures followed? Reference 18.4.2.11.7
  18.7.48. Are machines or their dangerous moving parts positioned so hazardous areas are not
  accessible or do not present a hazard to workers during normal operation? Reference
  18.4.2.12
  18.7.49. Before use of any safeguarding techniques, is a thorough hazard analysis made of
  each machine and particular situation? Reference 18.4.2.12.1
  18.7.50. Is the main source of power disconnected and locked in the OFF position when
  maintenance, service or machine adjustments are made? Reference 18.4.2.12.3
  18.7.51. Are safeguarding devices installed, adjusted, and used according to manufacturer‘s
  operating and maintenance instructions? Reference 18.4.2.13.2
242                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  18.7.52. Are hazardous parts that are not protected by a safeguarding device, guarded IAW
  18.4.2.14? Reference 18.4.2.13.3
  18.7.53. Whenever a guard is removed for other than an operational requirement, is the
  machine shut down and the control switch(s) locked and tagged in the OFF position?
  Reference 18.4.2.14.3
  18.7.54. Are enclosure and barrier guards interlocked with the machine control so the
  machine cannot be activated unless the guard or the hinged or movable sections of the guard
  are in position? Reference 18.4.2.14.4
  18.7.55. Are fan blades guarded when the blades are less than seven (7) feet above the floor
  or working level? Reference 18.4.2.14.5
  18.7.56. Are all guards designed and installed so no part of the body can be inadvertently
  placed in, on, under or over the edges of the guard where it might contact a moving part?
  Reference 18.4.2.14.6.1
  18.7.57. Does the installation CE or Ground Safety office determine the best material for
  guard construction in environments where chemical or corrosive operations are performed?
  Reference 18.4.2.14.6.2
  18.7.58. Are pulleys with cracks or pieces broken out of the rims taken out of service?
  Reference 18.4.2.14.6.11
  18.7.59. Do operators and maintenance personnel inspect guards prior to use and after
  maintenance? Reference 18.4.2.14.6.13
  18.7.60. Are holding tools used only to supplement guard protection when it would
  otherwise be necessary to place hands in the danger zone? Reference 18.4.2.15.2
  18.7.61. Are presence-sensing devices used only on part-revolution clutch presses?
  Reference 18.5.2.1.3.4
  18.7.62. Are press areas not protected by presence-sensing devices guarded? Reference
  18.5.2.1.3.4
  18.7.63. Do buttons on two-hand control devices operate only when the buttons are
  depressed concurrently and continuously (holding time) on the press downstroke or else is
  the clutch disengaged, the brake applied and the slide stopped? Reference 18.5.2.1.4
  18.7.64. Are energy controls isolated by a lockout device and safety blocks during press
  repairs or alterations of the die area? Reference 18.5.2.1.4.6
  18.7.65. Are operating levers on hand-tripped machinery with more than one operating
  station interlocked? Reference 18.5.2.1.4.8
  18.7.66. Is a means provided to select OFF, INCH, SINGLE STROKE or
  CONTINUOUS modes of operation integrated with the clutch brake control to govern the
  operation mode of the press? Reference 18.5.2.1.4.9
  18.7.67. During the inch operating mode, is concurrent use of both hands required to actuate
  the press clutch? Reference 18.5.2.1.4.10.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      243



  18.7.68. For presses with a single control, is it protected against accidental actuation and
  located so the worker cannot reach into the point of operation while actuating the control?
  Reference 18.5.2.1.4.10.2
  18.7.69. Are individual operator‘s two-hand trip controls designed and constructed so use of
  both hands is required to protect against unintentional press operations? Reference
  18.5.2.1.4.12
  18.7.70. Do two-hand trip systems on full-revolution-clutch presses provide anti-repeat
  protection for operators? Reference 18.5.2.1.4.13
  18.7.71. When two-hand trip systems are used on multiple operator press machines, does
  each operator have a separate set of controls? Reference 18.5.2.1.4.13.
  18.7.72. Are operators provided picks, pliers, tongs and other hand-feeding tools required for
  the safe handling of stock, dies or materials? Reference 18.5.2.1.4.14.
  18.7.73. Is a die setter‘s safety bar used for turning the flywheel when the power is off?
  Reference 18.5.2.1.4.14.
  18.7.74. Are power presses safeguarded to prevent the operator‘s hands entering the area
  between the dies during press cycling? Reference 18.5.2.2.
  18.7.75. Is a power disconnect or Stop switch (capable of being locked) provided on
  hydraulic presses? Reference 18.5.2.2.1.2.
  18.7.76. When using shears, is the area where sheared or punched refuse drops barricaded to
  prevent injuries to operators and helpers? Reference 18.5.2.5.4.
  18.7.77. Are shears equipped with an emergency stop control? Reference 18.5.2.5.4
  18.7.78. Are tools adjusted in lathe tool rests so they are slightly above the center?
  Reference 18.5.2.6.9
  18.7.79. When chips are generated during lathe use, is a tool, puller, brush or shovel used to
  remove them? Reference 18.5.2.6.10
  18.7.80. Is a chip shield provided on planers to prevent chips from flying and striking
  personnel? Reference 18.5.2.8.1
  18.7.81. Do the supervisor and installation Ground Safety office develop requirements on
  machine safe-guards for saws not covered in this standard? Reference 18.5.2.9
  18.7.82. Are both upper and lower wheels of bandsaws completely enclosed on both sides?
  Reference 18.5.2.10.1
  18.7.83. Is there a self-adjusting guard on the bandsaw that will completely cover the saw
  blade between the guide rolls and the upper wheel enclosure? Reference 18.5.2.10.2
  18.7.84. Are vises, fixtures and other work-holding equipment used on hacksaws to hold the
  workpiece securely? Reference 18.5.2.11.2
  18.7.85. Are riveting machines guarded to prevent operators placing their hands between
  dies? Reference 18.5.2.14
244                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  18.7.86. When more than one operator is required to operate a machine from different
  control stations, is each station provided with a cycle start button? Reference 18.5.2.17.2
  18.7.87. Are all cycle start buttons other than the one being used made inoperative (when
  one operator can operate the machine from more than one station)? Reference 18.5.2.17.3
  18.7.88. Are the emergency stops color coded red and located at each operator control
  station? Reference 18.5.2.18.1
  18.7.89. Can machine motions that are stopped by the emergency or master switch only be
  restarted by deliberate action by the operator? Reference 18.5.2.18.4
  18.7.90. Do circuits employing accumulator tanks automatically vent the accumulator
  pressure or isolate the accumulator when the machine is shut off? Reference 18.5.2.19.5
  18.7.91. Are non-vented accumulators identified with a sign saying ―WARNING:
  PRESSURIZED VESSEL‖ or the nearest commercially available equivalent? Reference
  18.5.2.19.6
  18.7.92. Are flexible pneumatic and hydraulic hoses arranged so they do not create a
  tripping hazard? Reference 18.5.2.19.8
  18.7.93. Whenever pressure is maintained after power is off, is a warning plate used?
  Reference 18.5.2.19.9
  18.7.94. Are local exhaust ventilation systems provided and used when dry grinding,
  polishing or buffing is performed to maintain employee exposures within permissible
  exposure limits? Reference 18.6.2.1
  18.7.95. Are abrasive wheel machines only operated with safety guards installed? Reference
  18.6.2.3.1
  18.7.96. Are work rests used during all off-hand grinding operations? Reference 18.6.2.3.3
  18.7.97. Are work rests adjusted closely to the wheel with a maximum opening of 1/8 inch
  to prevent work being jammed between the wheel and rest? Reference 18.6.2.3.3.1
  18.7.98. Are operators prevented from using abrasive grinding wheels to grind aluminum,
  brass, copper or other soft metals (unless the wheel is specifically designed for that purpose)?
  Reference 18.6.2.3.8
  18.7.99. Are operators prevented from using the side of the wheel for grinding (other than
  wheels designed for that purpose)? Reference 18.6.2.3.9
  18.7.100. Do all operators ensure that the grinders, buffers and wire brush machines are
  turned off when work is completed or prior to leaving the vicinity of the machine? Reference
  18.6.2.3.10
  18.7.101. Do the operators wear safety glasses or goggles for protection of the eyes, and a
  face shield for protection from wheel breakage, sparks and other grinding debris? Reference
  18.6.2.3.12
  18.7.102. Are safety guards in place prior to starting a grinder? Reference 18.6.2.5.1.10
  18.7.103. Do personnel wear face shields over safety glasses for face protection when
  dressing grinder wheels? Reference 18.6.2.5.2.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     245



  18.7.104. On grinding wheels requiring guards, does the guard cover the spindle end, nut
  and flange projections? Reference 18.6.2.6
  18.7.105. Where the work is applied to the grinding wheel above the horizontal center line,
  is the exposure of the grinding wheel periphery as small as possible and not over 60 degrees?
  Reference 18.6.2.6.3
  18.7.106. Do supervisors of operations that use materials such as magnesium, titanium,
  thorium, and beryllium contact installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE for
  assistance to determine safe work practices and protective equipment needs? Reference
  18.6.2.10
 246                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 19

                    EMERGENCY SHOWER AND EYEWASH UNITS

19.1. General Information. This chapter addresses selection, acquisition, location, installation,
maintenance, testing and use of emergency shower and eyewash units. Also included are
performance specifications for both permanently-installed and self-contained units. Types of
equipment covered are emergency showers, eyewash units, eye and face units, combination
units, hand-held drench hoses and eyewash bottles. Specific OSHA requirements are listed in
paragraphs 19.2.2, 19.2.3 and 19.2.4. Information in this instruction is derived from ANSI
Z358.1, Emergency Eyewash and Shower Equipment, and includes regulatory OSHA
requirements. Different makes, styles and combinations are available and must be chosen
carefully.
   19.1.1. The best means of worker protection is to engineer hazards out of the job so the
   worker is not exposed. If this is not possible, personal protective equipment (PPE) may be
   required. Eyewash units, eye and face units, deluge showers and other similar devices are
   emergency equipment and not a substitute or alternative for personal protective equipment.
   Injuries may be caused by exposure to chemicals or by materials thrown from equipment or
   machinery. Other injuries, particularly to the face and eyes, may occur when harmful liquids
   are sprayed, squirted, splashed, splattered, dropped or dripped.
   19.1.2. Installed units that do not meet the criteria of this instruction shall be evaluated by
   the installation Ground Safety office and prioritized for replacement or upgrade.
   19.1.3. Acquisition. Emergency shower and eyewash equipment may be both locally and
   centrally procured. The procuring document shall include a requirement for the equipment to
   meet or exceed ANSI Z358.1 (2004) specifications.
19.2. OSHA Requirements.
   19.2.1. 29 CFR 1910.111, Storage and Handling of Anhydrous Ammonia.
       19.2.1.1. Paragraph (b)(10)(iii): Stationary ammonia storage installations shall have an
       easily accessible shower or a 50-gallon drum of water.
       19.2.1.2. Paragraph (b)(10)(iv): Each vehicle transporting ammonia in bulk (except farm
       applicator vehicles) shall carry a container of at least five (5) gallons of water and shall
       be equipped with a full-face mask (approved by BE).
   19.2.2. 29 CFR 1910.151(c), Medical Services and First Aid: Where the eyes or body of any
   worker may be exposed to injurious corrosive materials, suitable facilities for quick
   drenching or flushing of eyes and body shall be provided in the work area for immediate
   emergency use.
   19.2.3. 29 CFR 1910.268(b)(2)(i), Telecommunications: Supervisors will ensure eye
   protection devices, with side as well as frontal eye protection, are used when measuring
   storage battery specific gravity or handling electrolyte. Acid resistant gloves and aprons shall
   be worn for protection against spattering. Facilities for quick drenching or flushing of the
   eyes and body shall be provided unless the storage batteries are of the enclosed type and
   equipped with explosion proof vents, in which case sealed water rinse or neutralizing packs
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         247



   may be substituted for the quick drenching or flushing facilities. Employees assigned to work
   with storage batteries shall be instructed in emergency procedures, such as dealing with
   accidental acid spills.
   19.2.4. 29 CFR 1926.441(a)(6), Batteries and Battery Charging (Subpart K, Electrical):
   ―Facilities for quick drenching of eyes and body shall be provided within 25 feet (7.62 m) of
   battery handling areas.‖
19.3. Responsibilities. Each supervisor is responsible for ensuring emergency showers and
eyewashes are provided, inspected, tested and maintained IAW this instruction. Evaluations for
each request for emergency showers and/or eyewashes shall be made by the installation Ground
Safety office to determine the need for the installation of units. Rationale for decisions shall be
documented and maintained in respective facility case files. The type of material used, its
properties, how the material is dispensed, probability of injury, extent of potential injury and
PPE available and used shall be considered in determining the need for the units. Emergency
showers and eyewashes are NOT a substitute for PPE and personnel shall use proper PPE when
required. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance on
PPE and the wear of contact lenses in the workplace.
19.4. Equipment.
   19.4.1. Permanently-installed shower and eyewash units (Figure 19.1) provide the best
   emergency protection for personnel. Self-contained units (Figure 19.2) and eyewash bottles
   (Figure 19.3) offer minimum protection and use shall be IAW paragraphs 19.4.3 through
   19.4.5.
   19.4.2. Hand-held drench hoses (Figure 19.4) can supplement shower and eyewash units but
   do not replace them. They can be used where the worker is in an awkward position
   physically or to reach parts of the face or body inaccessible to the fixed stream of the shower
   or eyewash. Eyes are usually washed with a spent stream which is accomplished by holding
   the hose up and washing the eye at the point where the stream has minimum pressure.
   19.4.3. Self-contained units provide minimum worker protection and shall only be used in
   the following situations:
       19.4.3.1. As an interim fix, pending installation or repair of a permanently-installed unit.
       19.4.3.2. For workers exposed to irritants rather than substances that could damage the
       eye.
       19.4.3.3. In temporary locations where a permanent installation would not be
       economically feasible or may not be possible.
       19.4.3.4. In field operations, such as remote missile or communications sites, where a
       source of potable water is not available.
   19.4.4. Eyewash bottles are not a replacement for other type units. An eyewash bottle may
   be kept in the immediate vicinity where employees are working on extremely hazardous
   operations. These units supply immediate flushing after which the individual may then
   proceed or be helped to a permanently-installed or self-contained unit to flush the eyes more
   thoroughly.
 248                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   19.4.5. Personnel working in remote areas where eyewash facilities are not readily available
   could be exposed to dust, fuels, solvents and other materials that if blown or splashed into the
   eyes would irritate the eyes. Immediate, continuous thorough flushing of the eyes water or
   normal saline is usually very beneficial prior to definitive medical treatment and vehicles
   supporting such operations should be equipped with unexpired large eyewash bottles or other
   means of flushing the eyes.
19.5. Location. Emergency showers and eyewash units shall be installed as required and
maintained in an operable condition. They shall be in conspicuously identified and accessible
locations that require no more than 10 seconds to reach and free of obstructions that may inhibit
immediate use of the equipment. The unit shall be located as close to the hazard as possible
without physically causing a hazard itself and shall not be located where the water spray will
contact electrical circuits. Energized circuits located within two (2) feet of emergency eyewash
stations and within five (5) feet of emergency shower stations shall be protected by ground fault
circuit interrupters (GFCI). Some corrosive substances have a very fast reaction time and worker
exposure to them requires the emergency shower and eyewash unit be located immediately
adjacent to the hazard.
19.6. Installation. Permanently-installed units shall be assembled, installed and tested by
qualified personnel IAW manufacturer‘s instructions and the applicable portion of paragraph
19.12. Facility design requirements shall be considered prior to installation. Installed units shall
meet requirements of OSHA, ANSI Z358.1 and the manufacturer of the unit. Travel distances to
eyewash stations shall not exceed 100 feet and shall not take more than 10 seconds to reach.
Workers should not have to open any doors or use any stairs to reach the station. Placement of
the unit shall be in a central location where the need is the greatest. Work situations may require
that more than one station be available. Units shall be connected to a supply of water free from
contamination and equal in purity to potable water. Water pressure must be capable of producing
the required columns and sprays IAW manufacturer‘s instructions.
   19.6.1. Water shall not be delivered at an extreme temperature (hot or cold) that could
   discourage the unit‘s use. Water temperature shall be between 60° F and 100° F. Lukewarm
   water (90° F to 95° F) is ideal. BE will be consulted for guidance in circumstances where
   chemical reaction is accelerated by contact with water or increased water temperature. Self-
   contained units and the supply lines of permanently-installed units shall be protected from
   freezing and from sunlight or other heat sources that could cause extremes in water
   temperature.
   19.6.2. Permanently-installed units and self-contained units installed in fixed locations shall
   be identified with a highly visible sign. The area around or behind the unit, or both, may be
   painted with green and white stripes if needed to increase visibility for easy identification by
   the user. Emergency shower and eyewash units shall be well lighted. Consult the local CE
   facility design section whenever specific guidance on lighting is required.
   19.6.3. If shutoff valves are installed in the water line for maintenance purposes, provisions
   shall be made to prevent accidental shutoff by placing a tag at the valve indicating the water
   supply is for emergency use. The affected supervisor(s) shall be notified prior to shutting off
   the water supply.
19.7. Control Valve and Actuating Mechanism.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           249



   19.7.1. The control valve shall be designed so, once activated, the water flow continues
   without requiring the use of the operator‘s hands. It shall remain on until intentionally shut
   off, shall be simple to operate (push-pull), and go from ―off‖ to ―on‖ in one second or less.
   Malfunctioning valves shall be replaced or repaired immediately.
   19.7.2. The control valve will be operated by an easily located and readily accessible
   actuating device, such as a ring and chain attached to the lever or rocking arm of the valve, a
   walk-on treadle or a push handle (Figure 19.5).
19.8. Alarms and Lights. Audible alarms or blinking lights may be used to indicate the unit is
in operation. Units in remote areas or where an individual is working alone may be equipped
with activating valves electrically connected to warning lights or buzzers positioned in occupied
areas (dispatch offices, work areas, etc.) to alert personnel when the unit is activated so aid may
be sent. In remote areas such as missile sites, the buddy system may be used in lieu of an alarm
system. Supervisors of operations where the buddy system is used shall indicate clearly what
actions each person is to perform. When in doubt as to the type of buddy system to use, the
supervisor shall consult with the installation Ground Safety office. Buddies shall know the
hazards involved in any operation, their duties as buddies, how to use prescribed rescue
equipment and emergency procedures.
19.9. Maintenance and Testing.
   19.9.1. Permanently-installed shower and eyewash units shall be activated by the supervisor
   or worker weekly to verify proper operation. The unit only needs activated long enough to
   ensure adequate pressure and volume of water is available and all orifices are free of
   obstructions. If a build-up of scale, rust, etc., is noted, spray heads or nozzles shall be
   removed and cleaned or replaced. The source of contamination shall be eliminated if
   possible. Units installed in unoccupied or infrequently used areas are exempt from this
   testing requirement, but shall be tested prior to commencing operations that could expose
   personnel to hazardous operations.
   19.9.2. The supervisor or worker shall inspect permanently-installed unit(s) monthly and
   document the inspection IAW paragraph 19.12. Documentation shall be maintained to show
   date of inspection and name of individual performing the test. This documentation may be
   kept in a log, computerized or affixed to the equipment by tag or label. Exception: Units
   installed at missile sites shall be tested and documented by the team chief during the most
   frequently performed periodic inspection established for that system.
   19.9.3. Self-contained units shall be tested and inspected IAW the manufacturer‘s
   instructions. Where tap water is used, fluid shall be replaced at least monthly. Less frequent
   intervals of fluid change, as recommended by the manufacturer, are acceptable where a
   solution or water additive is used. Fluid level shall be checked monthly. Tags or labels shall
   be attached to the unit or adjacent to it, indicating the fluid change schedule. Missile sites are
   given the same exception as in paragraph 19.9.2.
   19.9.4. Eyewash bottles shall have instructions and expiration dates, if applicable,
   permanently affixed to the unit. They shall be tested, refilled, maintained and disposed of
   IAW the manufacturer‘s instructions.
 250                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   19.9.5. All units shall be inspected by the installation Ground Safety office during scheduled
   surveys for proper placement, installation and documentation of supervisory testing and
   operation. Inspection personnel shall also randomly check employees to determine if they
   have been adequately trained on the use of emergency equipment.
19.10. Training. All workers exposed to conditions that may use this emergency equipment
shall be instructed in its use as a part of their job safety training. The initial treatment for a
hazardous substance splash shall be to wash the affected areas for a minimum of 15 minutes
prior to seeking medical treatment. Depending on the chemicals involved, clothing may need to
be removed during the showering period. When eyes are affected, it is important to hold the
eyelids open and roll the eyeballs so water will flow on all surfaces, including the folds
surrounding the eyeballs. This is best accomplished by placing the thumb and forefinger of each
hand on the eyebrow and below the eye to provide an open surface for flushing. A worker can be
temporarily blinded by a chemical splash and may be in extreme pain. It is a natural tendency to
keep the eyes shut, preventing the benefits of running water. Medical attention shall be sought
immediately after using an emergency eyewash and shower.
19.11. Water Supply. When any maintenance is performed that would render an emergency
shower or eyewash inoperative, the responsible supervisor shall be notified in advance of the
outage and again when service is restored. During the outage the supervisor will assure self-
contained units or eyewash bottles are available for emergency use.
19.12. Performance Specifications and Installation Requirements for Permanently-
Installed Units.
   19.12.1. Emergency Showers.
       19.12.1.1. The face of the emergency shower head shall be installed no less than 82
       inches nor more than 96 inches in height from the surface on which the user stands. The
       spray pattern shall have a minimum diameter of 20 inches at 60 inches above the surface
       on which the user stands, and the center of the spray pattern shall be located at least 16
       inches from any obstruction. In a combination unit, the eyewash is not considered an
       obstruction for the purpose of determining the distance of the center of the spray pattern.
       Multiple-spray emergency shower units (Figure 19.6) are exempt from these
       requirements and shall be installed IAW the manufacturer‘s specifications.
       19.12.1.2. Enclosures, if used, shall provide a minimum unobstructed area 34 inches in
       diameter to accommodate movement necessary in an emergency situation.
       19.12.1.3. Shower actuating devices shall be easy to locate and readily accessible to the
       user:
           19.12.1.3.1. Hand pull devices shall be located not more than 69 inches nor less than
           55 inches above the surface on which the user stands.
           19.12.1.3.2. Push handles and/or paddles shall be approximately 40 inches above the
           surface on which the user stands.
           19.12.1.3.3. Foot treadles shall not be more than six (6) inches above the walking
           surface.
       19.12.1.4. The shower shall be tested IAW the following procedures:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          251



         19.12.1.4.1. With water pressure on and the valves closed, check visible plumbing
         connections for leaks.
         19.12.1.4.2. Move the valve to the full open position. The valve shall move smoothly
         and freely and remain open without requiring further attention from the operator.
  19.12.2. Eyewash Equipment.
     19.12.2.1. Eyewash units:
         19.12.2.1.1. Shall provide a controlled flow of potable water (or its equivalent) to
         both eyes simultaneously at a pressure low enough not to be injurious. Normally, this
         can be accomplished by a water stream that rises between 6 and 12 inches from the
         nozzle.
         19.12.2.1.2. Nozzles shall be protected from contamination. If protective covers are
         used, their removal shall not require a separate motion by the operator when
         activating the unit.
         19.12.2.1.3. Units shall be positioned with water nozzles 33 inches to 45 inches from
         the surface on which the user stands. Eyewash-actuating devices shall be easy to
         locate and readily accessible. If a foot treadle is used, it shall not be more than six (6)
         inches above the floor (Figure 19.5).
     19.12.2.2. Eye and Face Wash Units. Units (Figure 19.7) shall meet the same criteria as
     an eyewash unit IAW paragraph 19.12.2.1, except they shall be capable of delivering a
     greater volume of water. This additional flow is required to ensure the entire surface of
     the face is irrigated.
  19.12.3. Hand-Held Drench Hoses. Drench hoses (Figure 19.4) supplement shower and
  eyewash units but do not replace them. They may be used where the user is in an awkward
  position physically to reach parts of the face or body inaccessible to the fixed stream of the
  shower or eyewash. Eyes are usually washed with a spent stream accomplished by holding
  the hose up and washing the eye at the point where the stream has minimum pressure.
  19.12.4. Combination Units. These units (Figure 19.1) shall be installed so all components
  can be operated individually from a common water supply line and shall meet the previously
  stated performance and installation criteria for each component. It is not necessary for all
  components to operate simultaneously (individual conditions may dictate this requirement).
  19.12.5. Self-contained Units. These units (Figure 19.2) shall be constructed of non-
  corrosive materials and provide a minimum of 15 minutes continuous flow. The stored fluid
  shall be protected against contaminants and temperature extremes. These units may be filled
  with potable water or a solution approved by either the manufacturer or the installation
  medical services. Instructions and expiration dates shall be permanently affixed to the unit.
  19.12.6. Eyewash Bottles. Eyewash bottles (Figure 19.3) shall provide an immediate
  flushing to the eyes. Eyewash bottles are not a replacement for other types of emergency
  equipment. These bottles may be filled with potable water or an eye-flushing solution, either
  approved by the manufacturer or by the installation medical services. Local procedures shall
  be developed to prevent these units from being exposed to extreme temperatures. Instructions
  and expiration dates shall be permanently affixed to the unit, if applicable.
 252                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 19.1. Permanent Combination Emergency Shower and Face and Eyewash Unit.




Figure 19.2. Self-Contained Non-Pressurized Eye Wash Unit.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                            253



Figure 19.3. Eyewash Bottle.




Figure 19.4. Hand-Held Drench Hose (Permanent).
 254                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 19.5. Activating Mechanisms.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                            255



Figure 19.6. Multiple-Spray Shower and Eyewash.
 256                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 19.7. Wall-Mounted Permanent Eye and Face Wash.




19.13. Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units Checklist. This is not an all inclusive
checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within
this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate,
MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to
include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   19.13.1. Do supervisors ensure emergency showers and eyewashes are provided, inspected,
   tested and maintained IAW this standard? Reference 19.3
   19.13.2. Are hand-held drench hoses used only to supplement shower and eyewash units and
   not to replace them? Reference 19.4.2
   19.13.3. Are emergency shower and eyewash units in conspicuously identified accessible
   locations that do not require more than 10 seconds to reach? Reference 19.5
   19.13.4. Are emergency shower and eyewash units located so the water spray does not
   contact any electrical circuit? Reference 19.5
   19.13.5. Are emergency showers installed in conjunction with, or in close proximity to, eye
   and face or eyewash facilities? Reference 19.5
   19.13.6. Are the units connected to a supply of water free from contamination and equal in
   purity to potable water? Reference 19.6
   19.13.7. Is the delivered water temperature in a comfortable range that would not discourage
   use of the unit? Reference 19.6.1
   19.13.8. Are self-contained units and the water supply lines of permanently-installed units
   protected from freezing and from sunlight or other heat sources that could cause extremes in
   water temperature? Reference 19.6.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         257



  19.13.9. Are permanently-installed and self-contained units installed in a fixed location
  identified with a highly visible sign and well lighted? Reference 19.6.2
  19.13.10. Where shutoff valves are installed on water supply lines to emergency shower and
  eyewash units, have signs or tags been installed to prevent accidental shutoff? Reference
  19.6.3
  19.13.11. When actuated, does the water flow remain on without use of the operator‘s
  hands? Reference 19.7.1
  19.13.12. Is the control valve simple to operate (push-pull) and does it go from ―off‖ to ―on‖
  in less than one second? Reference 19.7.1
  19.13.13. Is the actuating device (pull handle, walk-on treadle, or push handle) readily
  accessible and easily located? Reference 19.7.2
  19.13.14. If audible alarms or blinking lights are installed to show that the unit is in use, are
  they working properly? Reference 19.8
  19.13.15. Do supervisors activate permanently installed shower and eyewash units weekly to
  verify proper operation? Reference 19.9.1
  19.13.16. Are units installed in unoccupied or infrequently used areas tested prior to
  commencing any operations that could expose personnel to hazardous substances? Reference
  19.9.1
  19.13.17. Do supervisors inspect permanently installed units monthly IAW instructions in
  paragraph 19.12? Reference 19.9.2
  19.13.18. Are eyewash bottles maintained IAW the manufacturer‘s instructions? Reference
  19.9.4
  19.13.19. Are workers whose duties expose them to conditions that may warrant the use of
  emergency equipment properly trained? Reference 19.10
  19.13.20. When maintenance renders emergency shower or eyewash units inoperable, are
  adequate measures taken to safeguard employees? Reference 19.11
  19.13.21. Are emergency shower and eyewash actuating devices easy to locate and readily
  accessible to the user? Reference 19.12.2.1.3
  19.13.22. Is a means provided for eyewash units to ensure a controlled flow of potable water
  or its equivalent to both eyes simultaneously, at a pressure low enough not to be injurious to
  the user? Reference 19.12.2.1.1
  19.13.23. Is the stored fluid in self-contained units protected against contaminants and
  temperature extremes, and are instructions permanently affixed to the unit? Reference
  19.12.5
  19.13.24. Have procedures been developed to prevent eyewash bottles from being exposed
  to extreme temperatures, and are the instructions and expiration dates permanently affixed to
  the unit? Reference 19.12.6
 258                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 20

  SAFETY COLOR CODING, LABELING AND MARKING FOR PIPING SYSTEMS

20.1. General Information. This chapter establishes minimum requirements for positive
identification of hazardous material in piping systems except sections buried in the ground,
concrete or part of vehicles or field mobility equipment/systems, etc. This standard requires a
color code and lettered legend identification system, positioned in a distinctive manner as a
visual aid, for marking piping systems. Color marking shall not be substituted for elimination of
hazards by safety engineering, but shall be used to supplement other established mishap
prevention practices.
20.2. Hazards and Human Factors. Deaths and injuries to personnel and damage to property
may occur from mistakes made in turning valves on or disconnecting pipes at the wrong time or
place. To lessen the risk from error, confusion or inaction, especially in an emergency, a uniform
system for identification of piping contents shall be used to warn personnel when piping contents
are inherently hazardous. Personnel working with piping systems shall be trained to associate
various levels of hazards with common colors and lettered legends in piping systems to alert
them to potential hazards.
20.3. General Requirements.
   20.3.1. Federal Regulatory Requirements. Essential regulatory requirements are contained in
   29 CFR 1910, Subpart J, General Environment Controls, ASME A13.1, Scheme For The
   Identification Of Piping Systems, ANSI Z535.1, Safety Colors, MIL-STD-161G,
   Identification Methods For Bulk Petroleum Products Systems Including Hydrocarbon Missile
   Fuels, and MIL-STD-101B, DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinder.
   Follow MIL-STD-101B for agents not identified in ASME A13.1. Hazard identification
   using color coding and marking are included in this standard.
   20.3.2. Marking. Marking of physical hazards by standard warning colors is not a substitute
   for elimination of the hazards.
   20.3.3. Location. Each location shall be carefully evaluated to minimize the number of
   markings needed, thereby emphasizing markings which are used and eliminating confusion
   when colors are indiscriminately applied. For locations where all piping contains the same
   materials (for example — a liquid fuels pump house), minimal marking is required.
   20.3.4. Labeling and Color Coding. Piping systems shall be labeled and color coded if they
   contain any of the following materials:

Table 20.1. Piping Materials.
                                   Piping Materials
Flammable or easily ignitable materials.
Toxic or poisonous gasses or materials.
Corrosive materials.
Fire protection materials (NOTES: 1 & 2)
Compressed air at or above 30 pounds per square inch, gauge (psig). (NOTES: 1 & 3)
Potable water above 75 psig.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          259



                                     Piping Materials
Radioactive substances.
Oxidizing materials.
Steam.
Note 1: Piping systems containing ―fire protection materials‖ only require labeling and not color
coding. Paint all exposed interior piping. The color shall be the same as the walls and/or ceiling,
or a complementing color. The use of red paint is not necessary. Exposed piping in fire
protection equipment rooms and mechanical rooms and all unexposed piping in the facility may
be left unpainted. Exposed plastic interior piping shall only be painted if permitted by its listing
and the manufacturer‘s instructions. Exposed and unexposed stainless steel piping shall be
cleaned and remain unpainted.
Note 2: Mark all exposed interior fire protection piping at 26-foot (8-meter) intervals with
plastic wraparound-type pipe labels conforming to ASME A13.1-1996, indicating the fluid
carried and direction of flow. Paper, pressure sensitive or painted on labels are not permitted in
new construction. Labels are not required on sprinkler system branch lines and other piping less
than 2 inches (51 millimeters) in nominal size. The following legends shall be used on the labels:
— FIRE PROTECTION WATER – Used on dedicated potable and non-potable fire protection
water supply lines.
— FOAM CONCENTRATE – Used on high-expansion or low-expansion foam concentrate
lines.
— FIRE SPRINKLER or SPRINKLER FIRE – Used on standard water-only sprinkler systems.
— HIGH EXPANSION FOAM – Used on lines supplying low-level, high-expansion foam
generators.
Note 3: Compressed air lines operating at low pressures, less than 30 psi, are not required to be
marked or color coded. Compressed air lines operating at 30 psi or more require labeling only.
Although this standard does not require color coding for compressed air lines, other directives
such as laboratory or medical guidance, equipment TOs and MAJCOM/Installation guidance,
may require air lines be labeled and/or colored.
   20.3.5. Method of Identification for Piping Systems.
       20.3.5.1. Lettered Legend. Positive identification of piping system contents, hazardous
       materials and classification for fire protection shall be by lettered legend giving the name
       of the contents in full or abbreviated form in black or white, whichever provides suitable
       contrast to warning colors. These titles shall be prominently displayed adjacent to color
       warnings to prevent errors by personnel. Where the view is unobstructed, legends shall be
       lettered on the two lower quarters of the pipe or covering. Lettering in this position is
       unlikely to be obscured by dust collection or mechanical damage.
       20.3.5.2. Location. Letter legends shall be visible from operating positions.
       Identifications by title and color shall be located immediately adjacent to all operating
       accessories such as valves, regulators, flow checks, strainers, cleanouts and vents. In
       addition, primary color warnings shall be painted throughout the system at convenient
       intervals. An arrow shape indicating direction of flow shall appear on piping systems in
       any color coded installation. A double-headed arrow shall be placed on lines subject to
       reverse flow. Lettering sizes shall conform to Table 20.2 For pipes smaller than 3/4-inch
       in diameter, metal tags shall be used with lettering etched or filled in with enamel and
260                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      attached at the same locations color bands would be placed. Titles shall use upper case
      letters and Arabic numerals, whenever practical. Note: Labeling containers and fixed
      systems containing materials not meeting the definition of hazardous or dangerous
      materials is not required. However, such containers may be labeled when the
      occupational environment dictates (hospitals, laboratories, etc.). Refer to Chapter 36,
      Hydrocarbon Fuels, for additional information.
      20.3.5.3. Color Band. Color bands shall completely encircle the pipe or the entire piping
      system may be painted the designated color.
         20.3.5.3.1. Color band width may range from 8 to 32 inches according to the pipe
         diameter as specified in Table 20.2
         20.3.5.3.2. Color bands may be painted on the pipe or the pipe may be wrapped with
         self-adhesive colored tape.
         20.3.5.3.3. The direction of material flow within the pipe shall be indicated by an
         arrow at each color band or identification tag (except for electrical conduit). The
         arrow shall be the same color as used for the lettering (see Figure 20.1).
      20.3.5.4. Color Band Location.
         20.3.5.4.1. At some locations, it may be desirable to code pipes only at junctions or
         distribution points, while on other systems more frequent markings shall be required.
         In any case, the number and location of identification markings shall be based on the
         particular needs of each system to ensure the piping system is positively identified.
         20.3.5.4.2. Color bands used for pipe identification shall be located at frequent
         intervals on straight pipe runs, close to valves and changes in directions, and where
         pipes pass through walls and floors. Color coding bands shall be used sparingly for
         fire protection piping in areas designed to be suitably pleasing. If desired, the entire
         piping system may be color coded.
      20.3.5.5. Use of Colors. Primary and secondary warning colors applied to the piping
      system, either by paint or colored bands, shall conform to paragraphs 20.3.5.2 and
      20.3.5.6. These colors shall be used to identify the main classification of piping contents
      because the colors are readily distinguishable, one from another, under normal
      conditions.
         20.3.5.5.1. The use of colors specified in paragraph 20.3.4 and Table 20.4 on a
         piping system provides a warning of the hazards involved. Piping systems, which do
         not require warning colors, may be painted to match surroundings (if not in conflict
         with other color designations of this standard) or such systems may be painted
         aluminum, black or remain unpainted.
         20.3.5.5.2. A primary warning color shall appear on all dangerous piping systems
         and fire protection materials. Primary warning colors shall consist of a single color
         applied as a band or bands which completely encircle pipes in the system. Color
         bands shall be applied IAW dimensional information in Table 20.2 In lieu of color
         bands, all pipe and covering for an entire system may be painted the primary warning
         color if that color is different from the background color. The use of color bands is
         preferred. In addition, primary warning colors shall be used throughout the system,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          261



           where the system passes underground or through walls and at any other conspicuous
           places where warnings are required by safety authorities. If desired, operating
           accessories may also be painted with the primary warning color.
           20.3.5.5.3. Secondary Warning Color. Any piping system with a secondary hazard
           distinctively different from that indicated by its primary warning color shall have a
           secondary warning color applied. The color of the band shall be selected according to
           the definitions for warning colors specified in this standard. Location on piping
           systems shall be immediately adjacent to all operating accessories such as valves,
           regulators, flowchecks, strainers, cleanouts, pumps, dispensing points and vents.
       20.3.5.6. Use of Arrows. Arrows shall be used to indicate the normal direction of flow in
       a piping system. A double-headed arrow shall be placed on lines subject to reverse flow.
       When used, arrows shall appear adjacent to each primary warning color segment. When
       the entire piping system is paint, the primary warning color, the arrow, if desired, shall be
       black or white, whichever contrasts.
       20.3.5.7. Cryogenics. Labels and paint will flake off pipes carrying cryogens (typically
       liquid oxygen and nitrogen). Metal signs with identification markings shall be attached
       above or hung below cryogen piping by metal bands.
       20.3.5.8. Bulk Petroleum Product System and Hydrocarbon Missile Fuels. MIL-STD-
       161 contains specific marking guidance for these systems.
20.4. Worker Training. Supervisors shall ensure personnel working with piping systems are
trained in the hazards of the system contents and requirements of this chapter. Job safety training
shall be documented IAW AFI 91-202.
20.5. Classification of Material in Piping Systems. The classification of materials in a piping
system shall be as specified in paragraph 20.3.5.1. Examples of legends are included in Table
20.3 and color applications in Table 20.4

Table 20.2. Legend and Color Band Dimensions.
                        Legend and Color Band Dimensions
Outside Diameter of Pipe   Length of Color    Size of Letter Legend and Numerals
Or Covering (Inches)       Field A* (Inches)  (Inches) B*
Less than 3/4                                 See Paragraph 20.3.5.2.
3/4 to 1-1/4               8                  1/2
1-1/2 to 2                 8                  3/4
2-1/2 to 6                 12                 1-1/4
8 to 10                    24                 2-1/2
Over 10                    32                 3-1/2
Over 13                    32                 3-1/2
Note: See Figure 20.3.
 262                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 20.1. Exact Identification Always by Name of Material Contained.




Table 20.3. Examples of Legend.
                                  Examples of Legend
―HOT WATER‖                                 ―HYDRAULIC OIL‖
―SLURRY‖                                    ―FOAM‖
―AIR 100 PSIG‖                              ―CARBON TETRACHLORIDE‖
―ARGON 500 PSIG‖                            ―CAUSTIC‖
―H.P. RETURN‖                               ―STEAM 100 PSIG‖
―PROPANE‖                                   ―SULFURIC ACID‖

Table 20.4. Classification of Hazards of Materials and Designation of Colors¹.
           Classification of Hazards of Materials and Designation of Colors
Classification                                       Color                 Color of Letter
                                                     Field                   For Legend
                             Materials Inherently Hazardous
Flammable or Explosive                              Yellow                      Black
Chemically Active or Toxic                          Yellow                      Black
Extreme Temperatures or Pressures                   Yellow                      Black
             2
Radioactive                                         Yellow                      Black
                          Materials of Inherently Low Hazard
Liquid or liquid Admixture3                          Green                      White
Gas or Gaseous Admixture                              Blue                      White
                                 Fire Quenching Materials
Water, Foam, CO2, Halon, etc.                         Red                       White
Note 1: Colors shall be as recommended in ANSI 535.1 latest revision, Safety Color Code.
Note 2: Previously specified radioactive markers using yellow and purple are acceptable if
already installed and/or until existing supplies are depleted, subject to pertinent Federal
Regulations.
Note 3: Markers with black letters on a green color field are acceptable if already installed
and/or until existing supplies are depleted.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           263



20.6. Safety Color Coding, Labeling and Marking For Piping Systems Checklist. This is
not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical
items contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the
checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall
add to this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements
and/or situations.
   20.6.1. Is each location evaluated and the number of markings kept at a minimum?
   Reference 20.3.3
   20.6.2. Are piping systems labeled and color coded IAW guidance in paragraph 20.3.4?
   Reference 20.3.4.
   20.6.3. Does the method of identification of piping systems conform to the requirements in
   paragraph 20.3.5? Reference 20.3.5.1.
   20.6.4. Do the colors used to distinguish the hazard potential of piping systems conform to
   those in this standard? Reference 20.3.5.5.1
   20.6.5. Are hazardous materials in piping systems clearly identified? Reference 20.3.5.2
   20.6.6. Is a secondary warning color applied to a piping system possessing a secondary
   hazard? Reference 20.3.5.5.3
   20.6.7. Do supervisors ensure all personnel working with piping systems are trained on their
   hazards and is training documented? Reference 20.4
 264                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                         Chapter 21

           HAZARDOUS ENERGY CONTROL (LOCKOUT AND TAGOUT)

21.1. General Information.
   21.1.1. Hazards.
       21.1.1.1. Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, and AFI 91-202, The US Air
       Force Mishap Prevention Program, for further information on the Job Safety Analysis
       (JSA) and job safety lesson plan. Note: A JSA is not required when existing guidance
       adequately covers all safety requirements of an operation or process. (Example: TO 00-
       25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, and aircraft specific
       procedural TOs.
       21.1.1.2. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and
       Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
   21.1.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. BE personnel perform
   occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments of industrial work processes.
   Supervisors with workplace health hazards questions should contact BE. Refer to paragraph
   2.3 for additional information.
   21.1.3. Additional Information Related to This Chapter.
       21.1.3.1. Affected Worker. A worker whose duties require him/her to work in the
       vicinity of or operate a machine or equipment being serviced or maintained under
       guidelines of this standard.
       21.1.3.2. Authorized Worker. A worker who locks or tags out machines or equipment to
       perform servicing or maintenance on that machine or equipment.
       21.1.3.3. Service/Administrative Lock. Any lock used for a purpose other than
       lockout/tagout (LOTO) and is distinguishable from LOTO authorized locks. The lock
       may be used for safety functions other than LOTO, equipment or machinery out of
       service for an extended period with no maintenance, a configuration control function or
       other purposes.
       21.1.3.4. Equipment not under active maintenance shall not be locked with a LOTO
       lock. Refer to paragraphs 21.4.9 and 21.4.9.1.1 for additional guidance on
       service/administrative locks and long-term lockout.
       21.1.3.5. Manually-operated machines and equipment that require the operator to
       perform functions by hand may store energy or pose hazards to workers if broken or
       defective.
21.2. Specific Information.
   21.2.1. This chapter establishes requirements for procedures, training and periodic
   inspection for an energy control (Lockout/Tagout, LOTO) program to prevent unexpected
   start-up. It applies to all machines, equipment, Air Force workers and contractors who may
   be exposed to hazardous energy during servicing, maintenance or modification activity. The
   LOTO program requires:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       265



      21.2.1.1. Energy isolating devices and procedures to LOTO all machines and equipment.
      21.2.1.2. Retrofit of machines and equipment, as needed, to accept a lockout device. A
      JSA shall be conducted to ensure all hazards are identified and steps put in place prior to
      performing maintenance until the machine or equipment can be replaced or modified.
      21.2.1.3. Identification of hazardous energy sources, such as: electrical; pressure/vacuum
      (hydraulic, pneumatic); chemical; ionizing and non-ionizing radiation sources; thermal,
      kinetic or mechanical (rotational, gravity) energy; energy stored in capacitors, springs or
      gravity equipment; machinery or system components that are suspended, blocked or
      chocked; hydraulic or compressed air accumulators, etc. Note: Manual (non-powered)
      equipment energy sources must also be identified.
      21.2.1.4. Procedures be developed and documented for safe and proper use of locks and
      tags on energy isolating devices. Refer to paragraph 21.5, and Figures 21.7 and 21.8 for
      further guidance. Note: Push buttons, selector switches, interlock circuits and other
      control-type devices are not energy-isolating devices.
      21.2.1.5. LOTO procedures be strictly followed when working on equipment that may
      generate, hold or release any form of hazardous energy while the equipment is shut down.
      21.2.1.6. A training plan for initial and recurring LOTO training. Refer to paragraph 21.5
      21.2.1.7. All LOTO devices provide a positive means to isolate and prevent uncontrolled
      release of hazardous energy. LOTO is required whenever service, maintenance or
      modification will be performed on equipment or machinery where unexpected
      energizing, start-up or release of stored energy could injure personnel or damage
      equipment.
      21.2.1.8. Lockout of all energy sources prior to inspection, maintenance or servicing
      actions (including but not limited to: installation, set up, adjustments, lubrication,
      cleaning or tool changes) requiring removal of guards. Energy sources shall remain
      locked out until all actions are complete.
      21.2.1.9. Use of occupational safety and health signs and tags IAW Chapter 29, Mishap
      Prevention Signs and Tags. Refer to paragraph 21.3.3 for additional guidance.
      21.2.1.10. LOTO program self-assessment and annual inspections be conducted and
      documented to ensure requirements of this standard are followed. Refer to paragraphs
      21.6.1 and 21.6.2 for additional guidance.
21.3. Specifications for Lockout/Tagout (LOTO).
   21.3.1. LOTO devices and tags are not required when:
      21.3.1.1. Working on cord and plug connected electrical equipment if:
          21.3.1.1.1. There is a single energy source which can be easily identified and
          isolated.
          21.3.1.1.2. All hazardous energy is controlled by unplugging the equipment and there
          is no potential for stored, residual or accumulated hazardous energy.
266                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         21.3.1.1.3. The plug remains under continuous positive control of the worker
         performing servicing, maintenance or modification. Note: A plug LOTO device is
         recommended.
      21.3.1.2. Operations on energized equipment (e.g. measuring, troubleshooting,
      calibration), when continuity of service is essential to safety or shutdown cannot be
      reasonably accomplished. Note: Supervisor approval is required for such operations and
      documented safety procedures that provide an equivalent level of safety shall be
      established and followed.
      21.3.1.3. Minor tool changes, adjustments and servicing during normal operations
      provided:
         21.3.1.3.1. Such activities are routine, repetitive and integral to use of the equipment,
         21.3.1.3.2. Work is done using alternative measures that provide effective worker
         protection.
      21.3.1.4. Hot Tap Operations. Work on transmission and distribution systems, such as
      gas, steam, water or petroleum products, can be performed on pressurized pipeline
      systems if:
         21.3.1.4.1. The supervisor or authorized worker demonstrate continuity of service is
         essential.
         21.3.1.4.2. System shutdown is impractical and documented procedures are in place
         and used.
         21.3.1.4.3. Appropriate PPE is used that will provide effective protection for
         workers.
  21.3.2. Authorized Lockout Devices. These locks are used only to ensure safety of
  authorized workers when servicing, maintenance or modification of equipment and machines
  and shall:
      21.3.2.1. Be readily identifiable as a lockout device, i.e., numbered (CESM-1, CEOI-3,
      etc.), specific color lock or band, like red, and/or labels affixed to the lock.
      21.3.2.2. Not be used for any other purpose.
      21.3.2.3. Be singularly keyed with only authorized workers retaining the key(s) to the
      lock(s) when in use; a log shall be maintained by the shop supervisor to identify
      equipment being locked out under the LOTO program.
      21.3.2.4. Be applied to energy isolation device(s) prior to any servicing, maintenance or
      modification actions.
      21.3.2.5. Be substantial to prevent removal except by excessive force using special tools,
      such as bolt cutters or other metal cutting tools.
      21.3.2.6. Be inventoried and maintained to ensure accountability. There‘s no requirement
      to inventory devices, zip ties, chains or tags. However, LOTO devices should be adequate
      to support the expected LOTO requirements identified in the shop specific procedures.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      267



  21.3.3. Authorized Tagout Devices. AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout Tag
  (Figure 21.2) shall be used in conjunction with energy-isolating devices. AF Forms 979,
  Danger Tag, or 982, Do Not Start Tag, (Figures 21.3 and 21.6) shall be used in conjunction
  with service/administrative locks. These tagout devices immediately alert workers to existing
  and/or potential hazards from servicing, maintenance or modifications to equipment or
  machinery. All mishap prevention tags shall be standardized Air Force forms as listed in
  Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags, and available through normal form
  distribution channels. The functional manager or supervisor shall ensure an adequate supply
  of locks and tags is available.
     21.3.3.1. AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout Tag. The AF Form 983 or
     equivalent DoD tag are the only tags authorized for lockout purposes and shall be used
     only for lockout situations. This tag shall be placed on equipment that has been removed
     from service for maintenance purposes. All employees shall be instructed that these tags
     indicate that equipment is locked out for maintenance. Note: Commercial tags are no
     longer authorized.
     21.3.3.2. AF Form 979, Danger Tag. All employees shall be instructed that Danger tags
     indicate immediate danger and that special precautions are necessary. A Danger tag shall
     be placed on damaged equipment and the equipment removed from service until the
     energy-isolating device is locked out and an AF Form 983 is attached. Danger tag
     wording shall read, ―DO NOT USE THIS EQUIPMENT‖ or ―DEFECTIVE
     EQUIPMENT, DO NOT USE.‖
     21.3.3.3. AF Form 980, Caution Tag (Figure 21.4). The AF Form 980 shall be to warn
     against potential hazards, caution against unsafe practices and to prescribe precautions to
     protect personnel and property. Caution Tags shall only be removed by the supervisor
     only after the condition has been corrected or equipment locked out.
     21.3.3.4. AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag (Figure 21.5). The AF Form 981 shall only
     be used to indicate a piece of equipment, machinery, utility or system is out of order and
     its use might be hazardous or if powered on, the equipment could result in injury or
     damage. Applicable equipment records, when available, shall be annotated in addition to
     completing the Out of Order tag. The Out of Order tag will only be removed when the
     equipment is locked out.
     21.3.3.5. AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag. When AF Form 979, Danger Tag, is
     attached to equipment, it is not necessary to retag the equipment with AF Form 982, Do
     Not Start Tag. The Do Not Start tag shall be used to alert personnel of hazards associated
     with restarting the equipment and shall only be used until the energy isolating device is
     locked out and an AF Form 983 attached. Do Not Start tags shall be placed in a
     conspicuous location or manner where they block the starting mechanism being
     energized. Do Not Start tags shall only be removed by the supervisor and only after the
     condition has been corrected or equipment locked out.
     21.3.3.6. Tagout devices shall:
         21.3.3.6.1. Withstand the environment for the duration of expected exposure.
268                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         21.3.3.6.2. Be constructed and printed so they do not deteriorate or become illegible,
         especially in wet or corrosive environments. Laminated devices (tags) are acceptable.
         21.3.3.6.3. Warn against hazardous conditions if equipment or machinery is
         energized.
         21.3.3.6.4. Clearly identify the worker who applies them.
         21.3.3.6.5. Be secured with a self-locking, non-reusable and non-releasable
         attachment, such as a nylon or plastic cable tie, with a minimum unlocking strength of
         50 pounds.
  21.3.4. Responsible Parties.
      21.3.4.1. All workers are responsible for recognizing when LOTO is being used, the
      general reasons for LOTO and the importance of not tampering with or removing LOTO
      devices.
      21.3.4.2. Authorized workers are responsible for:
         21.3.4.2.1. Recognizing work conditions that require LOTO, assessing all hazardous
         energy sources, using correct LOTO procedures and materials, and maintaining
         control of their key(s).
         21.3.4.2.2. Applying their own locks and tags when performing servicing,
         maintenance or modifications, and shall never apply LOTO for anyone else.
      21.3.4.3. Workers shall immediately advise the work area supervisor of inoperable
      equipment or machinery. Supervisors shall determine if LOTO devices are needed and, if
      so, that appropriate devices are attached. They shall coordinate placement of tags and
      assignment of Risk Assessment Codes (RACs), if necessary, IAW paragraph 29.6,
      General Requirements for Use of Tags.
         21.3.4.3.1. Service/Administrative locks and tags appropriate for the hazard level
         shall be used to lock equipment that will not be repaired or serviced immediately.
         Equipment and machinery shall be shutdown and locked out IAW paragraph 21.4.
         21.3.4.3.2. Equipment not under active maintenance shall not be locked with a
         LOTO lock. Refer to paragraph 21.4.9 for additional guidance on
         service/administrative locks and long-term lockout.
         21.3.4.3.3. The work area supervisor of the equipment or machinery shall initiate
         application of service/administrative locks. These devices shall remain in place until
         CE or contract repair personnel repair the equipment or machinery.
         21.3.4.3.4. Responsibility for equipment lockout transfers from the supervisor to the
         repairing authority, i.e., CE or contract repair, when maintenance is performed,
         suspended (for parts) or until complete. See paragraph 21.4.10 for procedures on
         transfer of locks and tags.
         21.3.4.3.5. The work area supervisor shall have the overall responsibility for
         service/administrative locks.
  21.3.5. Supervisors shall:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      269



     21.3.5.1. Generate and maintain equipment-specific written LOTO procedures, i.e., a
     LOTO continuity book.
     21.3.5.2. Perform a self-assessment of work environments using these procedures at least
     semi-annually. Refer to paragraph 21.6.1 for additional guidance on LOTO self-
     assessments.
     21.3.5.3. Determine appropriate training and assure workers are provided needed
     training.
     21.3.5.4. Prohibit workers from working on equipment requiring LOTO until trained and
     authorized to perform LOTO.
     21.3.5.5. Assign and document worker LOTO authorization.
         21.3.5.5.1. Designate specific equipment or categories of equipment and develop
         control procedures.
         21.3.5.5.2. Verify worker is qualified to perform necessary energy-control
         procedures.
     21.3.5.6. Ensure consistent application and enforcement of LOTO policies.
     21.3.5.7. Keep accurate LOTO logs. See Figure 21.12 for sample log.
         21.3.5.7.1. Ensure authorized workers make log entries when applying/removing
         LOTO devices.
         21.3.5.7.2. Ensure LOTO logs are readily available for equipment or machinery
         being serviced, i.e., on equipment or machinery or in a centralized location for those
         areas where multiple maintenance tasks are being performed.
     21.3.5.8. Ensure necessary LOTO hardware is available.
         21.3.5.8.1. Maintain a log of all LOTO locks and assign LOTO locks to authorized
         personnel.
         21.3.5.8.2. Control LOTO tags before and after use. Tags shall be maintained for one
         year after removal, to verify the status of locks and tags used during a review period,
         once servicing, maintenance or modifications are complete.
     21.3.5.9. Control emergency keys for LOTO locks.
     21.3.5.10. Remove LOTO devices only in an emergency. Refer to paragraph 21.4.5 for
     additional guidance.
     21.3.5.11. Maintain LOTO tags after removal from machinery or equipment.
     21.3.5.12. Be trained as an authorized worker.
  21.3.6. Contractors. Contract personnel engaged in activities that require LOTO shall:
     21.3.6.1. Comply with OSHA regulations for lockout/tagout procedures including a
     written plan and employee training certificates.
     21.3.6.2. Inform unit site-supervisors of the contractor‘s LOTO procedures.
270                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      21.3.6.3. Be familiar with Air Force LOTO procedures.
      21.3.6.4. Ensure all individuals involved in the activity understand and comply with
      restrictions and prohibitions of hazardous energy control procedures applicable to
      activities being performed.
  21.3.7. Verification. All LOTO operations shall use written procedures. Refer to paragraph
  21.3.5.1.
      21.3.7.1. All sources of hazardous energy shall be shut off and secured. Each
      disconnecting means shall be legibly marked to indicate its purpose unless located and
      arranged so the purpose is evident. Markings shall be sufficiently durable to withstand the
      environment involved. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety and NFPA 70, National
      Electrical Code, for further guidance on disconnecting means.
      21.3.7.2. LOTO shall be performed at each identified hazardous energy control point by
      each worker authorized to work on the equipment. Each authorized worker shall:
         21.3.7.2.1. Apply their issued or assigned LOTO device when servicing, maintaining
         or modifying machinery or equipment, regardless of duration of activity or proximity
         to the energy-isolating device (e.g., circuit breaker, switch or valve).
         21.3.7.2.2. Personally witness or verify the absence of hazardous energy or assure
         that the verification has been performed.
  21.3.8. Equipment-Specific Energy Control. An equipment-specific written procedure shall
  be developed and used unless the equipment or machine undergoing servicing, modification
  or maintenance meets the requirements of paragraph 21.3.1. Supervisors need not document
  LOTO procedures for machines or equipment if ALL of the following elements are met:
      21.3.8.1. No potential for stored or residual energy or re-accumulation of energy after
      shutdown.
      21.3.8.2. Has a single energy source easily identified and isolated.
      21.3.8.3. Isolation and lock out of single energy source completely de-energizes and
      deactivates the equipment or machinery.
      21.3.8.4. Isolation from energy source maintained for duration of maintenance or
      servicing.
      21.3.8.5. A single lockout device and tag achieve lock out of the equipment or
      machinery.
      21.3.8.6. The lockout device is under the exclusive control of the authorized worker
      performing maintenance or servicing.
      21.3.8.7. Maintenance or servicing does not create hazards for other workers.
      21.3.8.8. No accidents involving the unexpected activation or reenergization of the
      machine or equipment during servicing or maintenance have occurred when utilizing this
      exception.
  21.3.9. Equipment-Specific Written Procedures. The supervisor shall:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        271



     21.3.9.1. Develop equipment-specific written energy control procedures with input from
     authorized workers most familiar with the equipment or machine. If procedures exist in
     equipment TOs, the supervisor shall review those procedures to ensure they are specific
     and address all types of hazardous energy contained in the equipment or machinery. See
     Figure 21.7.
     21.3.9.2. Ensure equipment or machines requiring written procedures are identified and
     procedures posted on equipment or readily available to workers authorized to LOTO the
     equipment. Also see paragraph 21.3.9.5.
        21.3.9.2.1. Written procedures shall be specific to each piece of equipment (by model
        or serial number) or machine, shall address all types of hazardous energy contained,
        and shall be written to the level of detail necessary to safeguard personnel.
        21.3.9.2.2. Complex equipment may require a separate procedure for each type of
        hazardous energy to be controlled.
        21.3.9.2.3. If the procedure is not posted on the equipment, the equipment shall be
        clearly labeled to indicate the availability and location of the procedure. The
        supervisor or worker responsible for the equipment may determine the appropriate
        format and content of the label.
        21.3.9.2.4. Consult maintenance and service manuals to ensure accuracy and
        sufficient level of LOTO detail. Review TOs, manuals, drawings, tags, labels and
        signs to identify and locate all disconnecting means to ensure power is interrupted by
        a physical break and not only de-energized by a circuit interlock. Make a list of
        disconnecting means to be locked/tagged.
            21.3.9.2.4.1. Review disconnecting means to determine their interrupting ability.
            Determine if it is possible to verify a visible open point or if other precautions are
            necessary.
            21.3.9.2.4.2. Review other work activity in the area, identify where and how
            other personnel might be exposed to electrical and other types of energy hazards,
            and establish energy control methods.
     21.3.9.3. Ensure LOTO procedures are used by authorized workers on the equipment or
     machine.
     21.3.9.4. Review and update procedures as necessary when there is a change in the
     equipment or associated hazards.
     21.3.9.5. LOTO Procedure Required Content. Equipment-specific written procedures
     shall incorporate all applicable elements of general LOTO procedures and any specific
     information. Each LOTO step shall be clearly explained in the context of the specific
     equipment or machine. Written procedures shall include the specific equipment or
     machine to which the procedure applies and must identify:
        21.3.9.5.1. All jobs to be accomplished and equipment involved.
        21.3.9.5.2. The procedure that requires control of hazardous energies.
        21.3.9.5.3. Components or locations generating hazardous energies to be controlled.
 272                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          21.3.9.5.4. Energy sources/types that shall be controlled.
          21.3.9.5.5. Process for notifying affected workers before controls are applied and
          after removal.
          21.3.9.5.6. Procedural steps to shut down and secure equipment or machinery.
          (Includes specific locations to shut down, isolate, block, and safe releasing and
          securing of all potentially stored or residual hazardous energies.)
          21.3.9.5.7. Type of LOTO hardware required and procedural steps for applying
          LOTO.
          21.3.9.5.8. Procedural steps to test and verify lockout effectiveness for hazardous
          energy control.
          21.3.9.5.9. Procedural steps to restart equipment or machinery.
          21.3.9.5.10. Workers authorized to perform LOTO.
21.4. LOTO Procedures. Only authorized workers shall perform LOTO procedures. Personnel
directly affected by the operation or shutdown of the equipment or machine shall be notified of
LOTO devices. Notification shall be given before controls are applied and after they are
removed. Refer to paragraph 21.7 for sample procedures. Procedures for applying locks or tags
shall include and be performed in the following order. Note: Whenever high energy electrical
sources are to be locked out, workers shall be assigned in teams (minimum of two [2] people).
   21.4.1. Prior to Start. Prior to starting any procedure, authorized worker(s) shall physically
   locate and identify all isolating devices to ensure that switches, valves or other energy
   isolating devices are locked and tagged out and manual or freely moving components are
   blocked or chocked to prevent movement. Authorized worker(s) shall resolve questions on
   identification of electrical or other energy sources with their supervisor before proceeding. If
   following equipment-specific written procedures would compromise safety, the authorized
   worker, with supervisor approval, may modify the sequence of steps, but all steps shall be
   performed.
   21.4.2. The Eight Step LOTO Process. The Authorized Worker shall:
       21.4.2.1. Step One – Preparation. Determine if equipment-specific written energy control
       procedures are applicable to the task. If so, the worker shall review control procedures
       and ensure they are followed correctly.
          21.4.2.1.1. Prior to shutting down equipment or machines, the supervisor, authorized
          worker or operator must have knowledge of and assess the type (e.g. electrical,
          mechanical, hydraulic), magnitude (e.g. 120 volts, 60 psi, etc.) and hazards of the
          energy to be controlled, including hidden energy sources such as springs, capacitors,
          elevated parts, etc. Note: Equipment or machinery may contain more than one type
          of energy.
          21.4.2.1.2. Determine, IAW written procedures, appropriate methods for controlling
          the hazardous energy. Methods for energy-isolation may include, but are not limited
          to, circuit breakers, disconnect switches or valves. See examples in Figure 21.1.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       273



     21.4.2.2. Step Two – Notification. Notify all affected workers of the impending
     shutdown and that they shall not disturb lockout devices or attempt to re-start the
     equipment until informed it is safe to resume normal operations.
     21.4.2.3. Step Three – Shutdown. Verify it is safe to shut down the equipment or
     machine.
        21.4.2.3.1. The equipment or machine shall be turned off or shut down using normal
        stopping and shutdown procedures (depress stop button, open toggle switch, close
        shut off valve, etc.).
        21.4.2.3.2. When equipment or machines use a simple wall plug as the single energy
        source and all hazardous energy, including stored, residual or accumulated hazardous
        energy is controlled by unplugging of the equipment, it shall be unplugged and the
        plug controlled by the supervisor or authorized worker IAW paragraph 21.3.1.1.3.
     21.4.2.4. Step Four – Isolation and Verification.
        21.4.2.4.1. Isolate all energy sources by operating (switch off, valve off, etc.) energy-
        isolating device(s).
        21.4.2.4.2. Verify the correct energy-isolating device has been operated and that
        steps taken to ensure energy isolation (LOTO applied to disconnect, valve, etc.)
        correctly correspond to the equipment that requires LOTO.
        21.4.2.4.3. Ensure all energy isolating devices needed to control the energy to or
        contained within the equipment or machine are used.
     21.4.2.5. Step Five – LOTO Device Application.
        21.4.2.5.1. Affix LOTO devices (typically locks) to hold energy-isolating devices in
        an ―off‖ or ―safe‖ position that physically prohibits normal operation of the energy-
        isolating device. Both tags and locks shall be installed. Tags are warning devices
        attached to energy isolating devices and cannot provide the physical restraint or
        security of a lock.
            21.4.2.5.1.1. Tags shall indicate date, time, reason and name of the worker
            installing the device.
            21.4.2.5.1.2. To prevent inadvertent or accidental detachment, tags shall be
            securely attached with a self-locking and non-releasable attachment (i.e., a nylon
            or plastic cable tie-off strap) with a minimum unlocking strength of 50 pounds.
            21.4.2.5.1.3. Tags may cause a false sense of security. Workers shall understand
            the use and limitations of tags as part of the overall energy control program. Refer
            to paragraph 21.4.3 for more detailed information on tagout procedures.
            21.4.2.5.1.4. Initial LOTO devices shall be attached to each energy-isolating
            device by the first authorized worker. Additional authorized workers who perform
            service, maintenance or modification on the equipment or machine shall apply
            their own locks during their maintenance activities. Refer to paragraph 21.4.4 for
            additional information on multiple lockouts.
274                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      21.4.2.6. Step Six – Additional Measures. Once the system is locked and tagged out, all
      potentially hazardous stored or residual energy shall be relieved, disconnected, restrained
      or otherwise rendered safe.
         21.4.2.6.1. Insert physical restraints (blocks, chocks) for moving or raised parts,
         blind flanges for pressurized piping, disconnect springs (if safe to do so), etc., to
         ensure moving parts are physically restrained or disconnected.
         21.4.2.6.2. The authorized worker shall completely release or otherwise control any
         stored energy and block any unexpected motion. Equipment or machines shall be in a
         zero energy state.
             21.4.2.6.2.1. For stored mechanical energy, vent valves, spring releases, blocking
             devices or equipment repositioning, as appropriate, shall be used.
             21.4.2.6.2.2. For stored electrical energy, approved grounding wands or
             discharge devices shall be used. If re-accumulation of stored energy to a
             hazardous level is possible, verification of isolation, such as leaving the ground
             wand in place, shall be continued until servicing, maintenance or modification is
             complete.
         21.4.2.6.3. The authorized worker shall demonstrate the equipment or machine is de-
         energized or isolated before starting work on LOTO equipment or machinery.
      21.4.2.7. Step Seven – Isolation Confirmation.
         21.4.2.7.1. Physically attempt to operate energy-isolating devices and attempt to
         restart the equipment or machine using normal controls. Caution: Return operating
         controls to ―safe‖ or ―off‖ position after the test.
         21.4.2.7.2. Test potential energy sources using appropriately rated and calibrated
         instruments or testers. Instruments used to test voltage, pressure or temperature shall
         be checked for proper operation both before and after use. If the authorized worker is
         not qualified to test the energy being isolated, he or she shall ensure the energy is
         tested by a qualified person.
      21.4.2.8. Step Eight – Keep LOTO Devices in Place. A lock and tag shall remain in
      place until work on the equipment or machine is complete.
         21.4.2.8.1. In rare circumstances, it may be necessary to temporarily remove LOTO
         devices before work is complete, such as for adjustment or repositioning equipment.
         21.4.2.8.2. Use the following sequence of actions when LOTO devices must be
         temporarily removed from the energy-isolating device:
             21.4.2.8.2.1. Notify all affected workers and supervisors.
             21.4.2.8.2.2. Clear equipment or machine of tools and materials.
             21.4.2.8.2.3. Remove all workers from equipment or machine area and ensure
             required tools are safely and properly positioned.
             21.4.2.8.2.4. Remove all repositioning and blocking devices and return all vents
             and valves to normal operating positions.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      275



            21.4.2.8.2.5. Remove all grounding/shorting conductors, hooks or wands.
            21.4.2.8.2.6. Put on any required PPE.
            21.4.2.8.2.7. Energize and proceed with testing or positioning.
            21.4.2.8.2.8. De-energize all systems; reapply lockout/tagout measures; notify all
            affected workers and supervisors; and continue servicing, maintenance or
            modification of equipment or machine.
  21.4.3. Tag-Out Only. A ―tag-out only‖ procedure may be used in the rare case a device
  cannot be locked out. Use extra caution with Tag-Out Only procedures as tags are warning
  devices and do not provide the physical restraint and security of a lock. Tags may evoke a
  false sense of security by the worker. A Tag-Out Only procedure may be used if:
     21.4.3.1. A justifiable and verifiable need is identified.
     21.4.3.2. Approval is obtained from the supervisor.
     21.4.3.3. Authorized workers follow LOTO procedures, with the following changes:
         21.4.3.3.1. Omit placement of the lock.
         21.4.3.3.2. In place of the lock, a secondary means of isolation shall be used.
         Removing an isolating circuit element, blocking a controlling switch, opening an
         extra disconnect device or removing a valve handle are examples of secondary
         measures. The secondary means of isolation shall be identified on the tag affixed
         IAW equipment-specific written LOTO procedures.
         21.4.3.3.3. The tag is secured with a self-locking and non-releasable attachment (i.e.,
         a nylon or plastic cable tie-off strap) with a minimum unlocking strength of 50
         pounds. A tag used without a lock shall be supplemented with at least one additional
         safety measure that provides a level of safety equivalent to that obtained by use of a
         lock. These devices shall be attached so they interfere with the operation of energy
         isolating devices (worker has to undo or remove the tag to operate isolating device).
         21.4.3.3.4. If tag placement would compromise safety by obscuring indicator lights
         or controls or where a tag cannot be attached directly to the energy-isolating device
         due to design, the tag shall be located as close as safely possible to the device, in a
         position immediately obvious to anyone trying to operate the device. Note: Energy-
         isolating devices for such equipment or machinery shall be modified or designed to
         accept a lockout device whenever new equipment or machinery is installed or major
         replacement, repair, renovation or modification is performed.
  21.4.4. Multiple Lockout. If more than one worker needs to LOTO equipment or machinery:
     21.4.4.1. Each authorized worker shall place his/her own lock on the lockout device and
     install their own tagout device.
     21.4.4.2. A multiple lockout device (hasp) shall be used when an energy-isolating device
     cannot accept multiple locks.
     21.4.4.3. Each worker shall remove his/her own LOTO devices when work is complete.
276                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  21.4.5. Three Step Release from Lockout/Tagout Process. (See Figure 21.8).
      21.4.5.1. Step One – Preparation and Notification. Before removing lockout or tagout
      devices and reenergizing machines or equipment, the authorized worker shall:
         21.4.5.1.1. Notify all affected workers the system is ready for return to service.
         Ensure all personnel are clear of the equipment point of operation and other hazard
         zones.
         21.4.5.1.2. Inspect the work area and ensure all tools, debris and non-essential
         personnel are removed or are a safe distance from the equipment or machinery.
         21.4.5.1.3. Replace safety guards, inspect equipment or machinery and ensure guards
         are operational.
      21.4.5.2. Step Two – Removal of Additional Devices.
         21.4.5.2.1. The authorized worker shall remove any additional devices applied IAW
         LOTO Application Step Six. See paragraph 21.4.2.6.
         21.4.5.2.2. Remove all safety grounding devices.
         21.4.5.2.3. Verify the work for which LOTO was applied is complete and it is safe to
         reenergize the equipment or machinery.
      21.4.5.3. Step Three – Removal of all Locks and Tags.
         21.4.5.3.1. Each LOTO device shall be removed only by the authorized worker who
         applied it. When the authorized worker who applied a LOTO device is not available
         to remove it, his or her supervisor may remove the device using emergency removal
         procedures in paragraph 21.4.6. This is considered an emergency procedure,
         undertaken only in extreme circumstances, i.e., use of equipment or machinery is
         required immediately.
         21.4.5.3.2. Authorized workers shall remove all LOTO devices and restore the
         energy isolating device to the ‗ON‘ position.
         21.4.5.3.3. Notify all workers the lockout condition has been cleared (locks and tags
         removed) and equipment or machinery is ready for service.
         21.4.5.3.4. Energize the equipment or machinery and restore to normal operating
         condition.
         21.4.5.3.5. Annotate LOTO log with clearance information.
  21.4.6. Emergency Removal of LOTO Devices. In some instances, a lock and/or tag may
  have to be removed by someone other than the person who applied the lockout device. For
  example, contractors may complete their work and leave without removing their issued locks,
  or a worker may be absent due to illness or other reasons. Under such circumstances, the
  supervisor may need to remove the lock, but the supervisor assumes responsibility for the
  safety of the equipment and those who work with it. If the authorized worker who applied a
  LOTO device is not available to remove it, the supervisor may remove the device, if it is safe
  to do so, provided:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         277



     21.4.6.1. Specific training and procedures are developed, documented and incorporated
     into the shop energy control program which demonstrate safety equivalent to removal of
     the device by the authorized worker who applied it. Locks should never be removed in
     haste or confusion.
     21.4.6.2. The supervisor verifies the authorized worker who applied the device is not at
     the facility. Before removing another's lock, the supervisor must perform all of the
     following steps, in the order listed:
         21.4.6.2.1. The supervisor makes every reasonable effort to contact the authorized
         worker who applied the device. This shall include a thorough search of the premises,
         the individual's normal workplace (if different) and telephone calls to both home and
         office numbers.
            21.4.6.2.1.1. These efforts are documented (e-mail, voicemail, etc.).
            21.4.6.2.1.2. If the authorized worker is contacted, the supervisor informs the
            worker their LOTO device must be removed and the reason for the removal. The
            supervisor shall determine if the worker can return to work and, if not, shall
            advise the worker his/her LOTO device will be removed and returned by the
            supervisor.
         21.4.6.2.2. Determine and understand the reason for the lockout.
         21.4.6.2.3. Determine and understand the need for removal of the lock by someone
         other than the person placing it.
         21.4.6.2.4. Thoroughly examine all parts of the locked out system and assess its
         readiness for use. This requires a visual inspection of all wiring, conduit, piping, etc.,
         between the energy isolating device and the equipment, and a complete inspection
         and understanding of the equipment. If the supervisor is not completely familiar with
         the equipment, he/she must enlist the aid of those who are. Supervisors are cautioned
         that the person asking to have the lock removed may not be the best consultant on this
         issue.
         21.4.6.2.5. If the supervisor is satisfied that the person who placed the lock cannot be
         contacted or cannot be present, that there is an immediate need to operate the
         equipment, that the equipment and all connected apparatus are safe for operation and
         the supervisor has verified it is safe to remove the LOTO device, he or she may use
         the emergency key to remove the LOTO device or cut it off if the key is not available.
         Procedures for release from lockout/tagout covered under paragraph 21.4.5 shall be
         followed when removing LOTO device(s).
         21.4.6.2.6. It is essential the person who originally placed the lock be notified as
         soon as possible that the lock has been removed. The supervisor ensures the worker is
         given the removed lock and informed of the reasons for removal before the worker
         returns to duty.
  21.4.7. Temporary LOTO Device Removal. If necessary to temporarily remove LOTO
  devices to start equipment or machinery for test or component repositioning, restoration
  procedures shall be performed IAW paragraph 21.4.2.8.1 thru 21.4.2.8.2.8. The equipment or
278                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  machinery shall be locked and tagged out IAW paragraph 21.4.2.5 when test or repositioning
  procedures are complete.
  21.4.8. Group LOTO. A group LOTO procedure may be appropriate when multiple
  authorized workers perform servicing, maintenance or modification on the same equipment
  or machinery and multiple lockout procedures in paragraph 21.4.4 are not feasible.
      21.4.8.1. The supervisor shall:
         21.4.8.1.1. Determine if a group LOTO procedure is appropriate.
         21.4.8.1.2. Convene a meeting of all members of the group covered by the procedure.
         21.4.8.1.3. Describe tasks to be performed.
         21.4.8.1.4. Delegate primary LOTO responsibility to a designated authorized worker
         for the group.
         21.4.8.1.5. Ensure each member of the group is trained and authorized to work
         LOTO IAW paragraph 21.3.5.3.
      21.4.8.2. The designated authorized worker shall:
         21.4.8.2.1. Follow each step of the LOTO procedures.
         21.4.8.2.2. Place his/her key(s) inside a gang lock box. Gang lock boxes shall be
         constructed to permit attaching multiple locks to the outside of the enclosure to
         prevent opening until all locks are removed.
         21.4.8.2.3. All other workers in the group shall assure each step of the LOTO
         procedures is complete, then lock and tag the gang lock box to prevent access until all
         locks are removed.
         21.4.8.2.4. When work is complete, each worker shall remove his/her lock from the
         gang lock box, the designated authorized worker shall remove his/her lock off of the
         gang lock box, obtain the key(s) from the lock box and return the equipment to
         service IAW paragraph 21.4.5.
  21.4.9. Long-Term Lockout. If equipment or machinery is locked out for several shifts, with
  no maintenance planned, appropriate service/administrative lock/tagout devices shall be
  attached. The shop supervisor shall be responsible for applying and controlling
  service/administrative locks. The tagout shall explain the purpose for the lockout.
      21.4.9.1. Do not use a LOTO lock to lockout equipment unless the equipment is under
      active maintenance. A service/administrative lock shall be applied to each energy
      isolating device when the authorized worker has completed his/her shift but the work is
      not completed or when the worker must leave the building for any reason. When the
      issued or assigned LOTO lock is removed, a service/administrative lock shall be applied.
      A service/administrative lock is used to maintain the integrity of the lockout between
      workers and does not replace an issued or assigned LOTO lock. When work continues,
      the service lock shall be removed and replaced with an issued or assigned LOTO lock,
      and the authorized worker shall verify all energy sources are at zero energy.
         21.4.9.1.1. Service/Administrative locks and tags shall:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      279



            21.4.9.1.1.1. Be clearly distinguishable from locks and tags used for
            lockout/tagout (i.e., if red banded locks are used for LOTO they shall not be used
            as service/administrative locks). AF Form 983 shall not be used as a
            service/administrative tag.
            21.4.9.1.1.2. Use a separate tag and/or integrate a label on the lock.
            21.4.9.1.1.3. Contain supervisor contact           information    and    name    of
            person/organization applying the lock.
            21.4.9.1.1.4. Identify the purpose of the lock.
            21.4.9.1.1.5. Have tags appropriate for the hazard (i.e., Danger, Caution, Do Not
            Start or Out of Order).
            21.4.9.1.1.6. Be used for safety purposes and not be limited to locking out
            equipment not in use.
        21.4.9.1.2. Examples of suitable use of service/administrative locks and tags include:
            21.4.9.1.2.1. Equipment is (or suspected of being) defective or faulty and cannot
            be used without producing further damage.
            21.4.9.1.2.2. Equipment is placed out-of-service for extended period of time (i.e.,
            shop move, waiting on repair parts).
            21.4.9.1.2.3. Equipment is awaiting service personnel who will perform
            lockout/tagout.
            21.4.9.1.2.4. Equipment is configured in a special manner or deemed to be
            essential in its operational state, and any changes in operating parameters or
            configuration will impair its proper operation or pose a hazardous situation for
            personnel.
            21.4.9.1.2.5. An actual or potentially hazardous environment exists, and access
            shall be restricted.
            21.4.9.1.2.6. Equipment may require special training or authorization to use.
            21.4.9.1.2.7. Newly installed equipment or systems are not fully tested or
            approved for use.
        21.4.9.1.3. Service/Administrative locks and tags are not transferred during shift
        changes; they shall stay in place until the equipment or machinery is repaired or
        moved. Once maintenance operations start, service/administrative locks and tags shall
        be replaced with LOTO devices IAW paragraph 21.4.2.5 after verification of the
        energy state.
     21.4.9.2. The equipment or machinery logbook shall indicate, at a minimum:
        21.4.9.2.1. Why equipment or machinery is locked out.
        21.4.9.2.2. Person responsible for lockout, and their contact information (i.e. shop
        supervisor, CE, etc.).
280                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  21.4.10. Shift Changes. Specific, written procedures shall be developed and used during shift
  or personnel changes to ensure continuity of lockout and tagout protection. This includes
  provision for orderly transfer of LOTO devices between off-going and on-coming
  supervisors and authorized workers to minimize exposure to hazards from unexpected
  energization, start-up or release of stored energy from equipment or machinery.
      21.4.10.1. The authorized worker going off-shift shall leave his/her lock/tag on the
      lockout until the oncoming authorized worker has placed his/her own lock/tag on the
      lockout.
      21.4.10.2. The off-going authorized worker may then remove his/her lock/tag from the
      lockout.
         21.4.10.2.1. The off-going authorized worker shall provide the on-coming authorized
         worker and supervisor information regarding the        status of equipment       or
         machinery affected.
         21.4.10.2.2. All such transfers shall be documented in the appropriate lockout/tagout
         log.
      21.4.10.3. Verification of the lockout (energy state) shall be performed by a supervisor
      or designated authorized worker for the on-coming shift prior to any maintenance or
      servicing on locked out equipment or machinery. Any authorized worker on the
      equipment or machinery may verify the lockout status during/after shift change. Note:
      All authorized workers are strongly encouraged to perform their own verification of
      lockout before performing duties on locked out equipment or machinery.
      21.4.10.4. Equipment or machinery shall remain locked out during maintenance and
      servicing activities.
      21.4.10.5. Basic Shift Change Examples:
         21.4.10.5.1. Guiding Principles:
             21.4.10.5.1.1. There shall be no loss of LOTO continuity during shift changes.
             21.4.10.5.1.2. Procedures for LOTO during shift changes shall be documented
             and followed.
             21.4.10.5.1.3. Each authorized worker shall have a specific key, and keys shall
             not be traded between authorized workers.
         21.4.10.5.2. Example 1: Outgoing shift authorized workers need to remove their
         locks at the end of their shift.
             21.4.10.5.2.1. The on-coming shift authorized workers:
                 21.4.10.5.2.1.1. Apply their locks before the out-going shift authorized
                 workers remove theirs.
                 21.4.10.5.2.1.2. Perform any necessary LOTO steps.
                 21.4.10.5.2.1.3. Verify the energy state.
         21.4.10.5.3. Example 2: Responsibility is transferred between designated authorized
         workers.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      281



             21.4.10.5.3.1. Ideally, both are present for a formal exchange in which on-
             coming authorized workers apply their locks, and then out-going authorized
             workers remove theirs.
             21.4.10.5.3.2. Keys to LOTO devices in lockboxes may be transferred; however,
             keys to issued or assigned locks shall not be transferred.
             21.4.10.5.3.3. Other LOTO steps are performed as necessary, including
             verification of energy state.
21.5. LOTO Training.
   21.5.1. General Awareness Training. General awareness training shall ensure affected
   workers know and understand the purpose, contents and application of the LOTO program to
   the level required to perform their job.
      21.5.1.1. Workers with duties in areas where LOTO procedures may be used shall be
      instructed in LOTO awareness during initial job safety briefings, including: the energy
      control program, how to recognize LOTO, why LOTO is required and the prohibition
      against restarting or reenergizing locked and tagged out equipment or machinery.
      21.5.1.2. LOTO may only be performed by authorized workers with LOTO training and
      task/equipment specific training and supervisor authorization. Awareness training is not a
      substitute for LOTO training.
   21.5.2. Authorized Workers. An authorized worker is a worker trained and authorized by his
   or her supervisor to perform LOTO procedures.
      21.5.2.1. Training. Supervisors shall ensure authorized workers and qualified equipment
      maintenance personnel understand the purpose and function of the LOTO program,
      including knowledge and skills required to safely use LOTO procedures in paragraph
      21.4.
          21.5.2.1.1. Supervisors shall verify training of authorized workers includes:
             21.5.2.1.1.1. Recognition of hazardous energy.
             21.5.2.1.1.2. Type and magnitude of energy found in the workplace.
             21.5.2.1.1.3. Means and methods of isolating and/or controlling energy.
             21.5.2.1.1.4. Means to verify effective energy control, and the purpose of
             procedures to be used.
          21.5.2.1.2. Verify affected workers have been instructed in purpose and use of
          energy control procedures.
          21.5.2.1.3. Verify that all other personnel who may be affected by the energy control
          procedures are instructed about the procedure and against restarting or reenergizing
          such machines or equipment.
      21.5.2.2. Each authorized worker or qualified equipment maintenance person shall
      receive initial job training on the type and magnitude of applicable hazardous energy
 282                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       sources, the methods and means necessary for energy isolation and control and use of
       LOTO procedures.
   21.5.3. Recurring Training. Recurring training shall be performed at least annually. The
   training shall establish employee proficiency, include an in-depth review of current and
   previous procedures and introduce new or revised control methods and procedures, as
   necessary.
   21.5.4. Retraining. Authorized workers, supervisors and qualified equipment maintenance
   personnel shall be retrained when:
       21.5.4.1. There is a change in job assignments.
       21.5.4.2. New equipment, machinery, chemicals or processes are used.
       21.5.4.3. New hazards are introduced in the work environment.
       21.5.4.4. New energy-control procedures are implemented.
       21.5.4.5. A self-assessment or periodic inspection reveals a deficiency in the authorized
       worker‘s, supervisor‘s or qualified equipment maintenance person‘s knowledge or ability
       to implement LOTO policy correctly.
   21.5.5. Training Documentation. All training, i.e., familiarization, initial and recurring, shall
   be documented. Training documentation shall be certified, current, include each individual‘s
   name, type and dates of training and be documented on the AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and
   Health Record, or equivalent product IAW AFI 91-202. All training documentation shall be
   readily available during inspections and LOTO program evaluations.
       21.5.5.1. The supervisor shall maintain AF IMT 55 or equivalent product and update
       training when necessary. For enlisted personnel, this form may be filed with the AF Form
       623, Individual Training Record Folder; for civilian personnel, file the form with the AF
       Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief; for all others, file the AF IMT 55 or equivalent
       product where designated by the supervisor.
21.6. LOTO Program Evaluations.
   21.6.1. Self-Assessments. Shop LOTO self-assessments shall be conducted by an authorized
   worker or supervisor on a semi-annual basis, to ensure compliance with all program
   elements. Self-assessments shall be designed to correct any deviations or inadequacies
   observed. Refer to Figure 21.10 for a sample assessment sheet. The assessment shall be
   documented, provide for a demonstration of the procedures and include, as a minimum:
       21.6.1.1. Identification of equipment and machinery for which the LOTO program
       applies.
       21.6.1.2. Review of LOTO log books for equipment or machinery in LOTO program.
       21.6.1.3. A review of each worker‘s responsibilities under the program.
       21.6.1.4. That all necessary training has been conducted, is current and properly
       documented.
       21.6.1.5. The date of the inspection and the unit representative conducting the self-
       inspection.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    283



   21.6.2. Annual Inspection. Functional managers and commanders shall ensure annual
   inspections of LOTO procedures within their organization are conducted by an individual
   above the shop level supervisor to verify and document effectiveness of the energy control
   procedures. A qualified ground safety inspector shall review LOTO inspection reports during
   organization safety inspections to ensure compliance. Refer to Figure 21.11 for a sample
   inspection sheet. The inspection shall include, as a minimum:
      21.6.2.1. Review of LOTO procedures with authorized workers.
      21.6.2.2. Observation of LOTO procedures to ensure workers understand and follow
      procedures.
      21.6.2.3. Review of training and self-assessment documentation to ensure LOTO
      requirements are met.
      21.6.2.4. Out-brief of shop or unit supervisor or, as appropriate, documented in the
      written report.
21.7. Sample Lockout/Tagout Procedures. The following sample lockout/tagout procedures
are provided to help supervisors and authorized workers comply with requirements in this
chapter and 29 CFR 1910.147. It includes a basic LOTO checklist for developing LOTO
procedures. Refer to Figure 21.7 and 21.8.
   21.7.1. Preparation for Lockout/Tagout. Workers required to use LOTO procedures shall be
   knowledgeable of the type and magnitude of the energy, the hazards to be controlled and the
   method or means to control the energy. Authorized workers shall notify all affected workers
   of the application of LOTO devices before they shut down equipment or machinery.
   Notification shall be given prior to controls being applied and after controls are removed
   from equipment or machinery.
      21.7.1.1. There are four (4) common types of energy sources: electrical (most common
      form), hydraulic or pneumatic, fluids and gases, and mechanical. Some equipment or
      machinery uses more than one energy source, so equipment-specific procedures shall be
      followed to properly identify and lockout/tagout all energy sources.
   21.7.2. Electrical.
      21.7.2.1. Shutoff power at machine and disconnect.
      21.7.2.2. Disconnecting means shall be locked and tagged.
      21.7.2.3. Press start button to verify correct systems are locked out.
      21.7.2.4. Return controls to their safest position.
      21.7.2.5. Safety precautions:
          21.7.2.5.1. Capacitors, if present, shall be drained of stored energy. Warning:
          Workers should be aware that capacitors may take several minutes to completely
          discharge.
          21.7.2.5.2. Possible disconnecting methods include: power cords, power panels (look
          for primary and secondary voltage), breakers, the operator‘s station, motor circuit
          relays, limit switches or electrical interlocks.
284                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         21.7.2.5.3. Some equipment may have a motor isolating shutoff and a control
         isolating shutoff.
         21.7.2.5.4. If electrical energy is removed by simply unplugging the power cord, the
         cord shall be kept under control of the authorized worker or the cord‘s plug end
         locked out or tagged out.
  21.7.3. Hydraulic/Pneumatic.
      21.7.3.1. Shut off all energy sources (pumps and compressors). If pumps and
      compressors supply energy to more than one piece of equipment or machinery,
      lockout/tagout the valve supplying energy to the equipment or machinery.
      21.7.3.2. Drain and bleed stored pressure from hydraulic/pneumatic lines. Caution:
      Draining and bleeding hydraulic/pneumatic lines and accumulators could cause
      equipment movement. Use manufacture actuator/cylinder locking devices, as required.
      21.7.3.3. Ensure controls are returned to their safest position (off, stop, standby, etc.).
  21.7.4. Fluids and Gases.
      21.7.4.1. Identify the type of fluid or gas.
      21.7.4.2. Close valves to prevent flow, then lockout/tagout.
      21.7.4.3. Determine the isolating device, close and lockout/tagout.
      21.7.4.4. Drain and bleed lines to zero energy state. Also see paragraph 21.7.3.2 Note:
      Some systems may have electrically controlled valves. If so, they must be shut off,
      locked and tagged out.
      21.7.4.5. Check for zero energy state at the equipment or machinery.
  21.7.5. Mechanical Energy (gravity activation or stored in springs, etc).
      21.7.5.1. Block out or use safety chain.
      21.7.5.2. Apply lockout and tagout safety device(s).
      21.7.5.3. Shut off and lockout/tagout electrical system.
      21.7.5.4. Check for zero energy state.
      21.7.5.5. Return controls to safest position.
  21.7.6. Release from Lockout/Tagout.
      21.7.6.1. Inspection. Ensure work is complete, tools inventoried and equipment used is
      serviced, maintained and any modification is complete.
      21.7.6.2. Clean-up. Remove all towels, rags, work-aids, chemicals/lubricant spills, etc.
      21.7.6.3. Replace guards. Replace all guards possible. Sometimes a guard may need to
      be left off until the start sequence is over to allow adjustment. However, all other guards
      should be in place.
      21.7.6.4. Check controls. All controls shall be in their safest position.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        285



       21.7.6.5. The work area shall be checked to ensure all employees are safely positioned
       and notified that lockout/tagout devices are being removed.
       21.7.6.6. Remove locks/tags. Remove only issued or assigned locks and tags.
   21.7.7. Procedures involving more than one worker. When more than one authorized worker
   performs servicing, maintenance or modification, each authorized worker shall place his/her
   own lock and tag on the energy-isolating source. If the equipment cannot be locked out, then
   each authorized worker must place his or her tag on the equipment or machinery.
   21.7.8. Removal of Authorized Worker‘s Lock. When a supervisor removes an authorized
   worker‘s lockout/tagout, he/she shall verify the authorized worker who applied the device is
   not in the facility, make a reasonable effort to advise the worker his/her device has been
   removed and ensure the worker is informed his/her device was removed before he/she
   resumes work. The supervisor shall return the worker‘s LOTO devices and keys. Refer to
   paragraph 21.4.6.
21.8. Contractors. Supervisors shall be aware of each contractor‘s responsibilities, how they
apply to their workplace and requirements of this chapter. Refer to AFPAM 91-210, Contract
Safety, for further information on contracts and responsibilities. Supervisors will contact the
installation Contracting Office in the event contractors are not in compliance with Air Force
and/or OSHA requirements. Note: This paragraph and accompanying subparagraphs cover
contractor operations in buildings/facilities still Air Force-owned, Air Force-controlled and
occupied by Air Force personnel. Confined space procedures performed by contractors will be
specified in the contractor‘s contract (e.g., contractor follow OSHA standards or AF guidance).
   21.8.1. When contractor personnel are engaged in activities covered by this instruction, the
   on-site supervisor and contractor shall inform each other of their respective lockout/tagout
   procedures. The on-site supervisor shall ensure his/her personnel understand and comply
   with the contractor‘s energy control procedures. Air Force and contractor personnel
   conducting joint lockout/tagout operations shall use requirements in this standard.
   21.8.2. The unit supervisor and the authorized worker most familiar with the equipment or
   machinery being serviced by the contractor shall review the contractor‘s LOTO program, in
   detail, to ensure workers will not be injured by allowing use of the contractor‘s LOTO
   program and procedures at the facility. All affected workers shall be trained in LOTO and
   familiarize themselves with the contractor‘s LOTO procedures. Authorized lockout and
   tagout devices shall be used IAW paragraphs 21.3.2 – 21.3.3. The installation contracting
   office shall inform the unit (per line item entry in the written contract) to supply the
   contractor with an ample supply of Air Force tags, i.e., AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment
   Lockout Tag, and any other required tags.
   21.8.3. To protect workers, contractor work areas shall be isolated and access by Air Force
   personnel restricted, unless working in conjunction with the contractor. If this is impractical
   or cannot be accomplished, the on-site supervisor shall assure the contractor‘s compliance
   with proper work procedures, energy isolation procedures and contractor employee
   compliance.
   21.8.4. The responsibility for LOTO training of contractor employees lies with their
   employer.
 286                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       21.8.4.1. If there are any discrepancies, the contractor supervisor shall ensure his/her
       workers understand and comply with any restrictions and prohibitions of the contractor‘s
       LOTO program.
       21.8.4.2. Contractors not following OSHA Hazardous Energy Control requirements shall
       be notified by the installation contracting office to suspend or terminate their work until
       their LOTO program is in compliance.

Figure 21.1. Lockout/Tagout Methods.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                      287



Figure 21.2. AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout Tag.




Figure 21.3. AF Form 979, Danger Tag.
 288                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 21.4. AF Form 980, Caution Tag.




Figure 21.5. AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       289



Figure 21.6. AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag.




Figure 21.7. Basic LOTO Checklist.
Note: Steps shall be followed in sequence. This checklist is a tool and does not replace a
written LOTO program. Refer to paragraph 21.4.
Step       Action
1.          Preparation.

                   Review equipment-specific written procedures.

                   Identify and assess all hazardous energy sources to be controlled.

                   Determine appropriate methods for controlling hazardous energy;
                   ensure all energy-isolating devices will accept a lock and tag.

                   Gather necessary tools and equipment, including LOTO locks, tags
                   and devices.

                   Identify supporting equipment or systems that must also be shut down
                   (if applicable).

2.          Notification. Notify affected workers of impending shutdown, the reason
            why, importance of not disturbing the lockout and not to re-start equipment
            or machinery until maintenance operations are complete.
 290                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


3.     Shutdown. Shut down equipment by normal methods (stop button, toggle
       switch, shut off valve, etc.).
       Note: Use an orderly shutdown to avoid additional hazards.

4.     Isolation and Verification.

              Isolate or block all hazardous energy sources for the equipment or
              machinery.
              Verify correct energy isolating device(s) has been operated and that
              steps taken to ensure energy isolation correspond to equipment or
              machinery requiring LOTO.
              Ensure all energy isolating devices needed to control energy to or
              contained within the equipment or machinery are used.
5.     LOTO Device Application. Apply lockout locks and tags.
               Affix devices, tags and locks to each energy-isolating device in a safe
               or off configuration.
               For tagout procedures, apply the tag at the point where a lock would
               be used, or as near as possible to it. Refer to paragraph 21.4.3.

6.     Additional Measures.
              Release all stored energy. Release, restrain, block, disconnect or
              otherwise render residual or stored energy safe.
              Insert physical restraints (blocks, chocks) for moving or raised parts,
              etc., to ensure moving parts are physically restrained or disconnected.
              Use energy drains (drain pressurized lines, free-wheeling shafts,
              active ground, etc.) whenever possible.
              If hazardous energy can re-accumulate during shutdown, continually
              verify a safe energy level until lockout/tagout is removed.
7.     Isolation Confirmation.

              Physically verify energy isolation by operating controls or measuring
              the energy state (use a meter to verify energy, operating the startup
              controls, etc.).
              CAUTION: Return operating controls to ―safe‖ or ―off‖ position after
              the test (if start up controls are operated).
              Note: If the work area has been left unattended, repeat this step and
              verify the integrity of the lock and tag (against tampering) before
              continuing work.
8.     Keep LOTO Devices in Place. LOTO devices shall remain in place until all
       maintenance activities are complete.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        291



Figure 21.8. Basic Release From LOTO Checklist.
Note: Steps shall be followed in sequence. This checklist is a tool and does not replace
the need for a written LOTO program. Refer to paragraph 21.4.5.
Step         Action
1.          Preparation and Notification

                  Notify all affected workers that the system is ready for return to
                  service and make the work area safe.

                  Inspect the work area to ensure all individuals are clear of hazard area.

                  Inspect the work area to ensure nonessential items have been removed
                  and equipment or machine components are operationally intact (e.g.,
                  guards reinstalled).

2.          Removal of Additional Devices

                  Remove physical restraints (blocks, chocks), safety grounding devices
                  and any other additional devices applied.

                  Verify all maintenance work is complete and it is safe to reenergize the
                  equipment or machinery.

3.          Removal of ALL Locks and Tags

                  Remove locks, tags and devices.

                  Notify affected workers that lockout or tagout devices have been
                  removed.

                  Energize equipment or machinery and proceed with normal operations,
                  testing or positioning.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                              292


Figure 21.9. Equipment Specific LOTO Checklist.

A. Equipment Identification:                                                                             Location:

B. This procedure covers servicing and maintenance of machines and equipment in which “unexpected” energization or start up of the machines or
equipment, or release of stored energy could injure employees. Authority: 29 CFR 1910.147(c)(4)
SCOPE OF THIS PROCEDURE:

C. HAZARDOUS ENERGY TYPE (Hazard): (Check All That Apply)

 1. Electrical: (shock, electrocution, arc flash)           2b. Mechanical: ( crush, drop, punch, pinch, 3.       Chemical: Explosion, Fire, Corrosion, Oxidization, Toxin, Asphyxiation,
       a. Voltage: AC < 30 or DC < 50 volts                   grab, cut, rotate )                                  Mutation, Instability

                                                            Include: Springs, Platforms (raised), Pendula,
                                                               Bungees, Flywheels                            4.   Radiation: Electro-magnetic, Microwave, Infrared, LASER, Ultraviolet,
       b. Voltage: AC or DC but ≤ 600 volts                                                                         Ionizing.
                                                            2c. Vacuum: < 1 Atmosphere (crush,
       c. Voltage: > 600 volts*                               whipping, noise, shrapnel)                     5.   Other: Specify:
                                                            Include: Reservoirs, Receivers, Tanks
       d. High current: > 25 amperes at any voltage
 Include: Capacitors and Batteries                          2d. Thermal, High temperature: > 120° F
 IAW AFI32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices                    surface       temperature     (burns)
                                                            2e. Thermal, Cryogenic: Unguarded
 2a. Pneumatic / Hydraulic: > 1 Atmosphere                    delivery line or conduction to a part where
   which results in hazardous energy (crush,                  exposure potential exists, potential contact
   whipping, noise, shrapnel)                                 with a cryogenic liquid. (extreme freezing,
                                                              asphyxiation)
 Include: Reservoirs, Receivers, Tanks
D.     JOB SPECIFIC LOCKOUT INFORMATION
D.1    Specific Lockout Locations                   Lockout Procedure Order    D.2    Dissipate stored energy at these points:
                                                          Location/Isolation
                    Identification                             Device



                                                                               D.2    Block these parts/remove linkages:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                               293



E. NAMES OF AUTHORIZED WORKERS PERFORMING THIS LOCKOUT:   F. NAMES OF PERSONNEL AFFECTED BY THIS LOCKOUT:




G. VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:                             H. SAFETY MEASURES/SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: (i.e. PPE)



I. LIST ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED:




J.      BASIC LOCKOUT PROCEDURES
                                                          K. RELEASE FROM LOCKOUT/TAGOUT
1.             Preparation.                               Notes/Comments:

                                                           1.       Preparation and Notification.
2.             Notification.

                                                           2.       Removal of Additional Devices.
3.             Shutdown.


                                                           3.       Remove ALL Locks and Tags.
4.             Isolatio    nd Verif      tion.


 5             LOTO Devic      Ap lication.


6.             Additional Measures.


7.             Isolation Confirmation.


8.             Keep LOTO Devices in Place.

L. SIGNATURE

Signature:                                                Date:
     294                                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012

Checklist Instructions:

A.
           EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION: Identify equipment to be serviced or maintained and list location (i.e., Site, Bldg, Rm.).
B.
           SCOPE: Write brief description of work activity.

C.         IDENTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS ENERGY: Identify all hazardous energy sources associated with the equipment to be serviced or maintained including
           those that may not require LOTO for activity being performed.

           JOB SPECIFIC LOCKOUT OR TAGOUT INFORMATION. Identify and state location of specific hazardous energy sources associated with equipment that
D1.
           requires lockout or tagout to ensure personnel performing maintenance or service and personnel working near the equipment are protected from
           unexpected release of hazardous energy.

D2.
           List locations where stored energy requires de-energization.
D3.
           List parts/equipment/components that require blocking.
D4.
           List any other related system that may require shutdown during maintenance or servicing activity.

E.         NAMES OF AUTHORIZED WORKERS PERFORMING THIS LOCKOUT: List names of all authorized workers performing LOTO (attach continuation sheet,
           if needed).
F.
           NAMES OF PERSONNEL AFFECTED BY THIS LOCKOUT: List names of personnel affected when performing this LOTO.

G.         VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: Specific requirements for testing a machine or piece of equipment to determine and verify effectiveness of LOTO
           devices and other energy control measures.

H.         SAFETY MEASURES/SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: List any special safety concerns associated with this work activity (i.e., electrically rated gloves, hearing
           protection, safety glasses, face shields, etc.).

I.         ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: (Optional) List any additional information not identified elsewhere on this form (i.e. special sequencing, reference manuals,
           reference other TOs, etc.)
J.
           BASIC LOCKOUT PROCEDURES. Complete steps 1-8, as applicable.
K.
           RELEASE FROM LOCKOUT/TAGOUT: Complete steps 1-3, as applicable.
L.
           SIGNATURE: Signature of Authorized Worker completing form.

Note: This is a tool and shall not replace a written LOTO program.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          295




RESTRICTIONS
All workers shall comply with restrictions/limitations imposed on them while using LOTO.
Authorized Workers shall perform the LOTO activities as prescribed in this procedure
Only Authorized Workers are permitted to perform lockout activities prescribed by this procedure.
This procedure shall be used during all activities involving maintenance (repair) or servicing (adjustments, modifications, cleaning, or
inspections) of equipment. No worker shall attempt to start/energize or use/operate locked out equipment.
If the designated Authorized Worker is replaced, relieved, or augmented, the new Authorized Worker(s) shall place his/her own lock
& tag on the lockout devices before the relieved worker removes his/hers.
No worker shall provide locks/tags nor vouchsafe for another worker for any or all isolation points at any time.
If the Authorized Worker leaves sight of the job, even momentarily, that worker shall re-verify the lockout and zero energy state of the
equipment before resuming work.
In an emergency, the supervisor shall apply his lock over that of the Authorized Worker until the Authorized Worker can verify a safe
state for the operation
In the event of undetermined (long-term) absence of an Authorized Worker who has not released the equipment from LOTO, the supervisor
may remove the lock.
Removal shall be performed under the provisions of, paragraph 21.4.5., Release from Lockout/Tagout.
If this procedure is part of a larger, more general procedure, energy sources that are part of the larger procedure, but not applicable
to this procedure, shall be identified and listed, with an explanation of why they are not a hazard and not applicable or relevant to this
procedure.
*
    Lockout of High Energy Electrical Sources

High energy electrical sources (over 600 volts) require special caution and attention to detail. The following steps are in addition to
those required for a normal lockout whenever equipment connected to high energy electrical sources is to be worked on.

1.     Workers shall be assigned in teams (minimum of two [2] people) whenever high energy electrical sources are to be
locked out.

2.        The high energy source shall be isolated from the equipment by at least two (2) energy isolating devices placed electrically in
          series. Both devices shall be locked open and tagged out before work begins. Each member of the team may elect to place
          one lock or two.

3.        Voltmeters shall not to be used to determine that the high energy source has been disconnected. "Tic Tracers" with both
          audible and visual indications are the preferred instrument.
 296                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


4.     After both locks are placed (following lockout procedure outlined above), the LINE side of the second energy isolating device
       shall be grounded. The grounds shall remain in place for the entire duration of the work.

5.     Workers shall ensure all stored energy, particularly from stray capacitance (in cables, lightning arrestors, power factor
       correction capacitors, etc.), is safely discharged from all parts of the circuit to be locked out. Grounds shall be in place on all
       conductors in the work area whenever work is in progress. If grounds are removed for any reason, they shall be replaced
       before continuing work.

6.     When removing locks from a high energy source, at least two (2) people shall independently perform complete inspections of
       the work area, the equipment worked on, and the entire circuit from the first lock to the equipment. All grounds shall be
       removed, all tools and parts stored, all areas clean, and all covers and other safety devices installed and secured.
      297                                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      Figure 21.10. LOTO Self-Assessment Tool (Example).
Facility:                                      Equipment ID:

Responsible Worker:

Appraisal Conducted by:                                                  Date:
                                                  Satisfactory
  Lockout/Tagout Program Requirements                                        Comments
                                                   (Yes/No)
Written lockout/tagout procedures
Management responsibilities understood
Authorized worker responsibilities understood
Lockout/tagout procedure review
Correct lockout/tagout sequences
Communication with contractors working on
   site, as required.
Record and documentation system
    established
Training for authorized workers
Roles and responsibilities
Periodic retraining completed, if applicable
Refresher training completed
Training records maintained, AF IMT 55
Standardized locks used
AF-standardized tags used
Lockout devices available to workers
Annual inspections conducted
Tagout-only procedure established
Lockout/tagout records completed
Removing locks in absence of authorized
   workers is documented
Group lockout/tagout procedure established
Shift/schedule change procedure established
Procedures followed during program
    execution
 Additional Comments/Recommendations




      Note: This is a tool and does not replace established checklists or procedures.
 298                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 21.11. LOTO Annual Inspection Sheet (Example).

Location: _____________________________________                   Date: ___________________

System/Equipment under maintenance: ______________________________________________

                                     Authorized Worker(s)

Name: _________________________________               Name: ___________________________

AFSEC: _________________________________               AFSEC: __________________________

Types of energy being isolated (circle):

Electrical         Chemical            Hydraulic           Pneumatic

Mechanical         Steam              Gas                 Other: ________________________

1. Has equipment or machinery being isolated had a hazard assessment to identify all sources of
energies present?

       Yes        No

2. If equipment or machinery energy(s) cannot be controlled by a single source, are specific
procedures written and posted?

       Yes        No

3. Has authorized worker(s) received training and shown satisfactory knowledge of procedure
requirements?

       Yes        No

4. Have authorized worker(s) been issued locks, tags and other devices as needed?

       Yes        No
5. Did authorized worker(s) verify system/equipment energy(s) was isolated before conducting
maintenance?
       Yes        No
Comments/Recommendations:

Inspector's Signature: ________________________________          Location: ________________
Date: _____________

Note: This is a tool and does not replace established checklists or procedures.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        299



Figure 21.12. LOTO Log Book Sheet (Example).

     Lockout/Tagout Log :______________________( Shop ID)
                       ___________________________________________


  Lock        Date        Date       Review       Equipmen      Reason      Name     Phone
 Number      Applied    Removed     (inital/dat   t/Machine     Applied
                                         e)         Locked     (maintenan
                                                  Out/Serial     ce/shut
                                                   Number        down)




Note: A log shall be used to document the use, location and review of Lockout/Tagout,
where appropriate. This is a tool and does not replace established documents or procedures.
 300                                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 21.13. Lockout/Tagout Decision Flow Chart, Page 1 of 4.
    Supervisor                 Authorized Worker                    Additional      Additional Shift(s)
                                                                    Authorized        Authorized
                                                                    Worker(s)          Worker(s)

                  Proposed
  START
                    Work



                  Assess
                 work site
                 – Review
                 Procedure




                  Identify
                  Energy
                 Sources to
                 be LOTO




                  Does Work
                   Require                YES                  Multiple
                   LOTO?                                       Personnel
                 (Paragraph                                    Required?
                   21.3.1.)




    Ensure              NO
 worker(s) use
                                                                      NO
  appropriate
   PPE and
    follow                          (Paragraph 21.4.)
 documented
  procedures.                       1. Review Equipment
                                    Specific Procedures (if
                                    applicable).                           YES

                                    2. Notify ALL Applicable
                                    Personnel of LOTO of
                                    Equipment.




                              Perform
                               Work
                                                  A                        B
                                                  B                        C
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                 301



   Supervisor                Authorized Worker          Additional   Additional Shift(s)
                                                        Authorized     Authorized
                                                        Worker(s)       Worker(s)
                                           A
                                           B



                                     Perform
                                   Shutdown and
                                     Isolation




                                     Perform
                                    Verification




                                    Ensure NO
                                   Stored Energy
                                      Present




                                  Apply
                              Lockout/Tagout
                                 Devices




                Document
                Lockout in
                LOTO Log                           NO
                  Book




                                 All LOTO
                                  Devices
                                 Applied?




                                         YES




                                     C
                                     E
302                                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


    Supervisor                    Authorized Worker                  Additional           Additional Shift(s)
                                                                     Authorized          Authorized Worker(s)
                                                                     Worker(s)
                                           C




                                        Group
Meet With ALL              YES          LOTO              YES
Authorized Workers                     Required?                             B
Performing                                                                   C
Maintenance and
Assign Primary
Authorized Worker
(Paragraph 21.4.8.)                                                      Apply
                                      NO                                Personal
                                                                         LOTO
                                                                        Devices




                                                        Place Keys in Gang
                                                             Lock Box




                      Maintain
                      Gang Lock
                      Box Key




                                       Apply Additional Measures –
                                           Physical Restraints




                                        Isolation                         Isolation
                                      Confirmation                      Confirmation
                                      (Paragraph                        (Paragraph
                                       21.4.2.7.)                        21.4.2.7.)




                                           D
                                           F
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         303



   Supervisor                 Authorized Worker              Additional    Additional Shift(s)
                                                             Authorized   Authorized Worker(s)
                                                             Worker(s)

                                                  D
                                                  F




                  Work
                 Extends        YES
                 Beyond                   Leave LOTO                        Verify Isolation
                One Shift?                Devices in Place                    and Apply
                                                                            Personal Lock
                                                                             (Paragraph
                                                                               21.4.10.)
                NO

           Leave LOTO
           Devices in Place



           Perform Work

                                            NO



                                        Work
                                      Complete?




                                             YES

                                 Notify Affected
                                Workers of Return to
                                     Service.



                                Remove Additional
                                Measures – Physical
                                    Restraints



                                Remove ALL LOTO
                                    Devices



        Annotate LOTO
                                      Return to
        Log Book with
                                       Service
          Clearance
         Information
 304                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


21.9. Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout) Checklist. This is not an all
inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items
contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist.
Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to
this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or
situations.
   21.9.1. Are procedures developed and documented for safe and proper use of locks and tags?
   Reference 21.2.1.4
   21.9.2. Has a training plan been developed for initial and recurring training on lockout and
   tagout procedures? Reference 21.2.1.6
   21.9.3. Are LOTO devices (typically locks) used as a positive means of isolating energy
   sources and preventing unexpected start-up of machines and equipment? Reference 21.2.1.7
   21.9.4. Is an inspection of the lockout and tagout program conducted annually? Reference
   21.2.1.10
   21.9.5. Is an adequate supply of safety tags and locks available for use? Reference 21.3.3
   21.9.6. Are all workers responsible for recognizing when LOTO is used, the general reasons
   for LOTO and the importance of not tampering with or removing LOTO devices? Reference
   21.3.4.1
   21.9.7. Have equipment-specific, written procedures been developed for use when
   equipment or machinery undergoes servicing, modification or maintenance? Reference
   21.3.8
   21.9.8. Are affected personnel in the area notified before and after lockout or tagout controls
   are used? Reference 21.4
   21.9.9. Does the supervisor, authorized worker and operator responsible for the equipment
   or machinery know the type, magnitude and hazards of the energy source(s)? Reference
   21.4.2.1.1
   21.9.10. Are lockout devices attached in a manner that will hold the energy isolating devices
   in a ―safe‖ or ―off‖ position? Reference 21.4.2.5.1
   21.9.11. Are service/administrative locks and tags replaced when maintenance on equipment
   and machinery starts? Reference 21.4.9.1.3
   21.9.12. Are specific, written procedures utilized during shift or personnel changes to ensure
   the continuity of lockout or tagout protection? Reference 21.4.10
   21.9.13. Is initial and recurring lockout and tagout program job training current and
   documented? Reference 21.5.5
   21.9.14. Are periodic self-inspections conducted and documented by the unit? Reference
   21.6.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          305



                                           Chapter 22

                           FLAMMABLES AND COMBUSTIBLES

22.1. General Information. This chapter addresses key flammable and combustible liquids
criteria, specific aspects of flammable and combustible liquids storage, use and handling, and
implements 29 CFR 1910.106, Flammable and Combustible Liquids. It includes storage
(inside/outside), use and handling of these liquids in containers or tanks of 60 gallons or less and
in portable tanks up to 660 gallons capacity. It also includes storage in fuel tanks of two (2)
gallons or less located on small gasoline-powered equipment such as lawnmowers and snow-
blowers. It does not apply to petroleum products in fuel tanks of motor vehicles, aircraft, boats,
other watercraft, large portable or stationary engines, petroleum products in portable tanks over
660 gallons, alcoholic beverages when packed in individual glass, plastic, metal or ceramic
containers not exceeding 4 liters in volume, medicines, foodstuffs and cosmetics, special purpose
vehicles designed and maintained for storage and transportation of flammable or combustible
liquids, or liquids having no flashpoint which may not burn under normal conditions. Note:
While this section deals primarily with flammable and combustible liquids, flammable and
combustible gases in compressed gas cylinders present similar fire hazards. Gases in cylinders,
i.e., acetylene, propane, hydrogen, shall be stored and handled IAW AFJMAN 23-227(I),
Storage and Handling of Liquefied and Gaseous Compressed Gasses and Their Full and Empty
Cylinders. Use of these gases shall comply with requirements in this and other parts of this
instruction, i.e., Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, along with requirements in the
NFPA 70, National Electric Code, National Fire Codes, etc., related to use and storage of
flammable materials.
   22.1.1. Personnel working with or handling flammable and combustible liquids may be
   exposed to spills, hazardous vapors, accidental mixture of flammable and combustibles, or
   industrial hazards associated with handling of containers and products. Physical hazards from
   these materials include fires and explosions. Preventing fires and explosions caused by static
   electricity or unauthorized defective electrical equipment requires increased attention during
   handling and storage of these liquids.
   22.1.2. Flammable Liquids. A flammable liquid has a closed cup flashpoint below 100
   degrees Fahrenheit (F) (37.8 degrees Celsius [C]) and a vapor pressure not exceeding 40
   pounds per square inch, gauge (psig) (2068 millimeters [mm] mercury [Hg]) at 100 degrees F
   (37.8 degrees C). Flammable liquids are categorized as Class I liquids and are further
   subdivided as follows below. Refer to NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code,
   for additional information and guidance on flammable liquids. Note: There are a few
   chemicals with a flashpoint outside these limits, such as anhydrous ammonia, that are still
   considered flammable liquids.
       22.1.2.1. Class IA flammable liquids have a flashpoint below 73o F (22.8o C) and a
       boiling point below 100oF (37.8o C).
       22.1.2.2. Class IB flammable liquids have a flashpoint below 73o F (22.8o C) and a
       boiling point at or above 100o F (37.8o C).
 306                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       22.1.2.3. Class IC flammable liquids have a flashpoint at or above 73 degrees F (22.8
       degrees C) and below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C).
   22.1.3. Combustible Liquid. A liquid having a closed cup flashpoint at or above 100 degrees
   F (37.8 degrees C). Combustible liquids are categorized as Class II or Class III liquids and
   are further subdivided as follows):
       22.1.3.1. Class II liquids have a flashpoint at or above 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C)
       and below 140 degrees F (60 degrees C).
       22.1.3.2. Class IIIA liquids have a flashpoint at or above 140 degrees F (60 degrees C)
       and below 200 degrees F (93.3 degrees C), except any mixture having components with
       flashpoints of 200 degrees F (93 degrees C), or higher. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.106. for
       additional guidance.
       22.1.3.3. Class IIIB liquids have flashpoints at or above 200 degrees F (93.3 degrees C).
       Note: This instruction does not cover Class IIIB liquids. Where the term Class III liquids
       is used in this instruction, it shall mean only Class IIIA liquids. Refer to 29 CFR
       1910.106. for additional guidance.
22.2. Human Factors. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, for additional guidance. Being
unaware of the hazardous properties of flammable and combustibles and their control can
contribute to or even be the cause of a mishap. Refer to AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication,
and 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication, for additional information.
22.3. Hazards.
   22.3.1. Flammable and combustible liquids require careful handling at all times. Many of
   these liquids are used by the Air Force, and mishandling is a significant cause of injury or
   occupational illness. Hazards associated with use of flammable or combustible liquids
   include explosions, burns from fire, chemical burns, asphyxiation, inhalation of vapors,
   absorption through the skin, skin irritation and eye damage from direct contact or exposure.
   The volatility of flammable or combustible liquids is increased by heat and, when heated to
   temperatures higher than their flashpoints, they present a greater hazard.
   22.3.2. Solvents with flammable characteristics must be handled with care. Solvents can
   burn or explode if handled or used improperly.
   22.3.3. Air Force personnel must be aware of hazards associated with the use of flammable
   and combustible liquids used at the worksite. Job safety training shall include, as a minimum,
   information on the need for and use of approved PPE; maintenance and care of PPE, safe
   chemical handling procedures; and emergency treatment practices in case of exposure,
   ingestion or inhalation of liquids or vapors. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective
   Equipment (PPE), and AFI 90-821 for additional guidance.
   22.3.4. Some flammable and combustible liquids are highly reactive with other substances,
   subject to explosive decomposition or have other properties that dictate extra safeguards.
   Contact the installation Ground Safety office, Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight or BE
   when in doubt or for additional guidance. The following lists some common water-reactive
   substances:
       22.3.4.1. Alkali Metals (Lithium [Li]).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        307



       22.3.4.2. Potassium [K].
       22.3.4.3. Sodium [Na].
       22.3.4.4. Cerium [Ce].
       22.3.4.5. Calcium [Ca].
       22.3.4.6. Hydrides.
       22.3.4.7. Phosphorous Trichloride.
       22.3.4.8. Phosphorous Pentasulfide.
Note: Water-reactive materials shall not be stored where fire protection sprinklers are in place.
These materials shall not be stored with flammable or combustible liquids. Refer to 29 CFR
1910.106. and the latest edition of the Emergency Response Guide. Ensure emergency response
personnel are advised that water-reactive materials are present.
   22.3.5. Sparks resulting from accumulation of static electricity can ignite flammable vapors
   or gases. The flow of flammable liquids through non-conductive hoses or passages can also
   produce static charges. Unless safely conducted to a ground, these charges accumulate and
   become an ignition source. Refer to NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
   22.3.6. Supervisors and workers engaged in operations where fuels, solvents or other
   flammable liquids are used must be constantly alert and avoid unsafe practices. It is
   hazardous to use fuels (such as gasoline) to clean floors or clothing, or use open solvent or
   gasoline containers near electrical equipment or pilot lights. The use of low-flashpoint
   petroleum solvents shall be avoided, when possible. Open flames, open heaters, equipment
   not properly grounded and non explosion-proof electrical equipment shall not be used in the
   presence of flammable or combustible liquids. Refer to NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
22.4. Responsibilities.
   22.4.1. Functional Managers and/or Supervisors shall ensure:
       22.4.1.1. All workers and handlers of flammable or combustibles have accomplished
       appropriate training associated with tasks and hazards related to the work environment.
       22.4.1.2. Personnel handling, storing or using hazardous materials are trained IAW AFI
       90-821.
       22.4.1.3. Individuals involved in dispensing of flammable or combustible liquids are
       instructed on hazards of static electricity.
       22.4.1.4. Workers handling and storing flammable or combustible liquids are trained in
       fire prevention and protection as it relates to their duties.
       22.4.1.5. Appropriate spill and containment control materials are readily available at
       storage or dispensing areas.
       22.4.1.6. PPE is available and appropriately worn when handling flammable or
       combustible liquids.
22.5. General Requirements.
308                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  22.5.1. Facility Pre-Fire Plans. Facility pre-fire plans shall be developed for flammable and
  combustible liquid warehouses, laboratory and storage buildings. These plans shall be
  maintained in the installation FES Flight and on vehicles designated by the Fire Chief. Refer
  to AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, for additional information. The plans
  include the hazardous materials contained in installation facilities, their locations and
  emergency procedures to be followed.
  22.5.2. Containers. Containers and portable tanks shall meet handling, storage and
  dispensing requirements specified in this standard for the product concerned. Refer to NFPA
  30 for additional guidance.
      22.5.2.1. The capacity of flammable and combustible liquid containers shall be IAW
      Table 22.1, except that glass or plastic containers of no more than 1-gallon capacity may
      be used for Class IA or IB flammable liquids if:
         22.5.2.1.1. Such liquid would be rendered unfit for its intended use by contact with
         metal or would excessively corrode a metal container and create leaks.
         22.5.2.1.2. The user‘s process would require more than one (1) pint of a Class IA
         liquid or more than one (1) quart of a Class IB liquid of a single assay lot to be used
         at one time, or would require maintenance of an analytical standard liquid of a
         quantity not met by the specified standards of liquids available, and the quantity of
         the standard liquid required in any one control process exceeds one-sixteenth the
         capacity of the container allowed under Table 22.1 for the class of liquid.
      22.5.2.2. Flammable liquids shall be kept in covered containers when not in use. Refer to
      NFPA 30 for additional information.
      22.5.2.3. Storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall be prohibited in office
      occupancies except when required for maintenance and operation of buildings and
      equipment. Such storage shall be the smallest quantity required, in approved self-closing
      metal containers stored in a storage cabinet or in safety cans or an inside storage room not
      having a door that opens into that portion of the building used by personnel. Maximum
      quantities shall meet the requirements of the storage cabinet, container or room IAW
      paragraph 22.5.3 and Table 22.9
  22.5.3. Storage Cabinets. All flammable/combustible storage cabinets shall be
  listed/approved for the specific class of storage. Not more than 120 gallons (460 liters) of
  Class I, Class II and Class IIIA liquids may be stored in a storage cabinet. The combined
  total of Class I and Class II liquids may not exceed 60 gallons per storage cabinet, nor more
  than 120 gallons of Class III liquids may be stored in a storage cabinet. Not more than three
  (3) such cabinets (120 gallons each) may be located in a single fire area except in an
  industrial area. Refer to Attachment 1 for definition of a fire area. Additional cabinets may
  be located in the same fire area of an individual area if the additional cabinet, or group of
  more than three (120 gallons each) cabinets, is separated from other cabinets or group of
  cabinets by at least 100 feet. The total aggregate volume of Class I, Class II and Class IIIA
  liquids in a group of storage cabinets shall not exceed maximum allowable quantity (MAQ)
  of flammable and combustible liquids per control area based on the occupancy where the
  cabinets are located. The MAQs of liquids allowed in each control area shall not exceed the
  amounts specified in Table 22.9 If a unit requires more than three (3) storage cabinets, it
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        309



  must coordinate with the FES Flight. Refer to NFPA 30 and Table 22.9 for additional
  information. NFPA 30 is available for review at the FES Flight. Note: The limit of three (3)
  cabinets in a single area can be increased where smaller cabinets are used. However, the
  maximum amount of flammable storage cannot exceed that which could be stored in three
  120 gallon capacity cabinets (460 liters).
     22.5.3.1. HAZMAT Pharmacies and Other Areas that may Exceed MAQs Limit. In
     HAZMAT Pharmacies, buildings and/or portions of buildings where liquids are stored
     that may exceed MAQs per control area shall be classified as High-Hazard Level 2 or
     High-Hazard Level 3, as established by NFPA 30.
         22.5.3.1.1. High-Hazard Level 2. Contents that present a deflagration hazard or a
         hazard from accelerated burning. This includes Classes I, II and IIIA liquids that are
         used or stored in normally open containers or systems, or in closed containers or
         systems at gauge pressures 15 psi or greater.
         22.5.3.1.2. High-Hazard Level 3. Contents that readily support combustion or that
         present a physical hazard. This includes Classes I, II and IIIA liquids that are used or
         stored in normally closed containers or in closed containers or systems at gauge
         pressures of less than 15 psi.
     22.5.3.2. Cabinets shall be labeled with conspicuous lettering, ―Flammable — Keep Fire
     Away.‖ Additional guidance for marking storage containers is contained in Chapter 20,
     Safety Color Coding, Labeling, and Marking.
     22.5.3.3. The cabinet is not required to be vented for fire protection purposes. However,
     the following shall apply:
         22.5.3.3.1. If the cabinet is vented, for whatever reasons, the cabinet inlet shall be
         vented outdoors in a manner that will not compromise performance of the cabinet.
         22.5.3.3.2. If the cabinet is not required to be vented, the vent opening, as applicable,
         shall be sealed with bungs supplied with the cabinet or specified by the manufacturer
         of the cabinet.
     22.5.3.4. Storage cabinets that meet at least one of the following sets of requirements
     shall be acceptable for the storage of liquids.
         22.5.3.4.1. Storage cabinets designated and constructed to limit the internal
         temperature at the center of the cabinet and 1 inch (2.5 centimeter [cm]) from the top
         of the cabinet to not more than 325o F (162.8o C), when subjected to a 10-minute fire
         test that simulates the fire exposure of the standard time-temperature curve specified
         in NFPA 251, Standard Methods of Tests of Fire Resistance of Building Construction
         and Materials, shall be acceptable. All joints and seams shall remain tight and the
         door shall remain securely closed during the test.
         22.5.3.4.2. Metal storage cabinets constructed in the following manner are
         acceptable. The bottom, top, door and sides of the cabinet shall be at least No. 18
         gauge sheet steel and double-walled, with 1 1/2 inches (38 mm) of air space. Joints
         shall be riveted, welded or made tight by some equally effective means. The door
310                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         shall have a three-point latch arrangement and a doorsill raised at least 2 inches (50
         mm) above the bottom of the cabinet to retain spilled liquid within the cabinet.
         22.5.3.4.3. Wooden cabinets constructed in the following manner are acceptable. The
         bottom, sides and top shall be constructed of exterior grade plywood at least 1 inch
         (25 mm) thick that shall not break down or delaminate under fire conditions. All
         joints shall be rabbeted and fastened in two directions with wood screws. Where more
         than one door is used, there shall be a rabbeted overlap of at least 1 inch (25 mm).
         Doors shall be equipped with a means of latching and hinges shall be constructed and
         mounted in such a manner as to not lose their holding capacity when subjected to fire.
         A raised sill or pan capable of containing 2 inches (50 mm) of liquid shall be
         provided at the bottom of the cabinet to retain spilled liquid within the cabinet.
      22.5.3.5. Grounding or bonding of flammable/combustible liquid storage cabinets is not
      required whenever the cabinet meets national fire codes and OSHA requirements for
      design materials and for quantities of liquids stored.
  22.5.4. Inside Storage Rooms. Refer to NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
      22.5.4.1. Inside storage rooms shall meet specifications of NFPA 251 and the required
      fire-resistive rating for their use. Openings to other rooms or buildings shall have
      noncombustible liquid-tight raised sills or ramps at least four (4) inches in height or, as an
      alternative, the floor in the storage area shall be at least four (4) inches lower than the
      surrounding floor. Rooms shall be liquid-tight where walls join the floor. An additional
      alternative to the sill or ramp is an open-grated trench inside the room draining to a safe
      location. Self-closing fire rated doors meeting requirements of NFPA 80, Standard for
      Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives, shall be used. Where other portions of the
      building or other properties are exposed, windows shall be protected as required by
      NFPA 80. Wood of at least 1-inch nominal thickness may be used for shelving, racks,
      dunnage, scuffboards and floor overlay.
      22.5.4.2. Class I liquids shall not be stored or handled within a building having a
      basement or pit where flammable vapors can travel, unless such area is provided with
      ventilation that will prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors.
  22.5.5. Electrical. Electrical wiring and equipment located in inside storage rooms used to
  store Class I liquids shall meet requirements for Class I, Division 1 hazardous classified
  locations. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.152, Flammable and Combustible Liquids, and NFPA 70,
  National Electrical Code, for additional guidance.
      22.5.5.1. Electrical equipment and wiring in inside storage rooms used to store only
      Class II and Class III liquids shall be suitable for general purpose use.
      22.5.5.2. Transfer of flammable liquids from one container to another shall be done only
      when containers are electrically interconnected (bonded). When flammables are not being
      transferred from one container to another, there is no requirement to have the containers
      bonded. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.106. for additional information.
  22.5.6. Ventilation. Liquid storage areas where dispensing is conducted shall be provided
  with either a gravity or continuous mechanical exhaust ventilation system. Areas in which
  flammable or combustible liquids are transferred from one container to another tank or
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        311



  container in quantities greater than 5 gallons shall be separated from other similar operations
  by 25-feet or by construction with a fire resistance of at least one (1) hour. Drainage or other
  means shall be provided to control spills. Adequate natural or mechanical ventilation shall be
  provided to maintain the concentration of flammable vapors at or below 10 percent Lower
  Explosive Limit (LEL). Mechanical ventilation shall be used if Class I liquids are dispensed
  within the room. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.106 for additional information.
     22.5.6.1. Exhaust air shall be taken from a point near a wall on one side of the room and
     within one (1) foot of the floor with one or more make-up inlets located on the opposite
     side of the room within one (1) foot of the floor. The location of both the exhaust and
     inlet air openings shall be arranged to provide air movement across all portions of the
     floor to prevent accumulation of flammable vapors. Exhaust from the room shall be
     directly to the exterior of the building without re-circulation.
     22.5.6.2. Mechanical ventilation systems shall provide for a complete change of air
     within the room at least six (6) times per hour. If a mechanical exhausting system is used,
     it shall be controlled by a switch located outside the door. The ventilating equipment and
     any lighting fixtures shall be operated by the same switch. The switch shall be
     illuminated or an electric warning pilot light shall be adjacent to the switch if flammable
     liquids are dispensed within the room. The mechanical ventilation system for dispensing
     areas shall be equipped with an airflow switch or equally reliable method interlocked to
     sound an audible alarm upon failure of the ventilation system.
     22.5.6.3. Ventilation ducts and airflow requirements shall comply with UFC 3-410-04H,
     Industrial Ventilation, and NFPA 91, Standard for Exhaust Systems for Air Conveying of
     Vapors, Gases, Mists, and Noncombustible Particulate Solids.
  22.5.7. Additional Requirements for Inside Rooms. For storage capacity and required fire
  resistive ratings for inside rooms, refer to Table 22.2 Storage rooms shall not have an
  opening into any portion of a building used by the public. At least one clear 3-foot wide aisle
  shall be maintained in all inside storage areas. Containers in excess of 30-gallon capacity
  shall not be stacked. Dispensing shall be IAW paragraph 22.5.5.2 for Class I flammable
  liquids. All other dispensing shall be by approved pump or self-closing faucet only. Refer to
  NFPA 30 for additional information.
     22.5.7.1. At least one portable fire extinguisher having a rating of at least 40-B shall be
     located outside of, and within 10 feet of, the door opening into an inside liquid storage
     area.
     22.5.7.2. At least one portable fire extinguisher rated at least 40-BC shall be located
     within 30 feet of any Class I or Class II liquid storage area outside of a storage room but
     inside a building.
     22.5.7.3. Installed fire suppression systems shall be approved IAW UFC 3-600-01, Fire
     Protection Engineering for Facilities. Additionally, consult the installation FES Flight for
     further guidance.
  22.5.8. Storage Inside Buildings. When storage of flammable or combustible liquids is
  required and the storage is incidental and not the primary purpose of the area, storage shall
  comply with NFPA 30 (Refer to 29 CFR 1910.106. for additional information):
312                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      22.5.8.1. Storage shall not physically obstruct a means of egress from the building or
      area and not be placed in such a manner that a fire would prevent safe egress from the
      area.
      22.5.8.2. Containers shall remain tightly sealed except when transferred, poured or
      applied. Workers shall remove from the storage container only that portion required to
      accomplish a particular job.
      22.5.8.3. Leaking containers shall be removed to a safe location outside the building, and
      the contents transferred to an undamaged container IAW guidance from the installation
      FES Flight and Environmental Management office.
      22.5.8.4. If a flammable and combustible liquids storage building is used, it shall be one-
      story and devoted principally to handling and storing of flammable or combustible
      liquids. The building shall have a 2-hour fire-rated exterior wall with no openings within
      10 feet of stored material.
      22.5.8.5. Flammable paints, oils and varnishes in 1 to 5 gallon containers, used for
      building maintenance purposes, may be stored temporarily in closed metal containers
      outside approved storage cabinets or rooms if kept at the job site for less than 10 calendar
      days.
      22.5.8.6. At least one portable fire extinguisher with a rating of at least 12-B shall be
      located outside of, but not more than 10 feet from, the door opening into any room used
      for storage of flammable or combustible liquids.
      22.5.8.7. Water reactive materials shall not be stored in the same room with flammable
      or combustible liquids. Exception: Small quantities may be stored in laboratories. Refer
      to paragraph 22.6.1 and NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
      22.5.8.8. Base supply warehouses, base exchange storage rooms and commissary storage
      areas shall be IAW Table 22.3 Buildings or portions of such buildings utilized for
      flammable and/or combustible storage shall be isolated by standard fire walls approved
      for the type and quantity of liquids being stored. Materials which create no fire hazard
      may be stored in the same area.
      22.5.8.9. When flammable or combustible liquid warehouse or storage is within 50 feet
      of a building or adjoining property line that may be built upon, the wall facing the
      building or property lines shall be a blank wall having a fire-resistance rating of at least 2
      hours.
      22.5.8.10. The total quantity of liquids within a building is not restricted, but
      arrangement of storage shall comply with Table 22.3 and Table 22.4
      22.5.8.11. Stacked containers of flammable liquids shall be separated by pallets or
      dunnage, where necessary, to provide stability and to prevent excessive stress on
      container walls. Refer to paragraph 22.5.7 for guidance on stacking containers.
      22.5.8.12. Portable tanks stored over one tier high shall be designed to nest securely,
      without dunnage. Adequate materials handling equipment shall be available to handle
      tanks safely at the upper tier level.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        313



     22.5.8.13. No stack shall be closer than three (3) feet to the nearest beam, chord, girder
     or other construction member and shall be at least three (3) feet below sprinkler deflector
     or discharge orifice of water spray or other installed fire protection systems.
     22.5.8.14. Aisles at least three (3) feet wide shall be provided for clear access to all
     doors, windows or fire department standpipe connections.
     22.5.8.15. All containers shall be clearly labeled to identify contents and indicate
     hazards.
  22.5.9. Outside Storage. Table 22.5 and Table 22.6 provide maximum quantities and
  separation criteria for outside storage of flammable and combustible liquids. Refer to 29 CFR
  1910.106. for additional information.
     22.5.9.1. Maximum storage of 1,100 total gallons may be located adjacent to other
     buildings provided: (Reference NFPA 30.)
         22.5.9.1.1. A minimum distance of 10 feet is maintained between buildings and
         nearest container.
         22.5.9.1.2. The storage area is graded IAW paragraph 22.5.9.3.
         22.5.9.1.3. The storage area is protected against tampering or unauthorized entry
         where necessary and kept free of weeds, debris and other combustible material not
         necessary to the storage.
     22.5.9.2. Where the quantity stored exceeds 1,100 gallons, refer to Table 22.6 for
     quantities and separation distances.
     22.5.9.3. The storage area shall be graded to divert possible spills away from buildings
     or other facilities or shall be surrounded by a curb at least six (6) inches high. When curbs
     are used, provisions shall be made for draining accumulations of ground or rainwater or
     spills of flammable or combustible liquids. Drains shall terminate at a safe location and
     shall be accessible and operate under fire conditions.
     22.5.9.4. At least one portable fire extinguisher rated at least 20-B shall be located
     between 10 feet and 25 feet travel distance from any Class I or Class II liquid storage
     area outside of a storage room.
     22.5.9.5. Installed fire suppression systems shall be approved IAW UFC 3-600-01.
     Contact the installation FES Flight for further guidance.
     22.5.9.6. Containers and portable tanks used for Class I liquids shall be electrically
     grounded and bonded during liquid transfer. Positive measures shall be taken to eliminate
     any source of ignition: open flames, electrical, smoking, cutting and welding, hot
     surfaces, static, mechanical sparks, radiant heat or spontaneous ignition sources.
     22.5.9.7. All containers having flammable or combustible materials shall be protected
     from heat sources to prevent the contents expanding and pressurizing the container,
     which could rupture the container. Open flame or smoking shall not be permitted within
     50 feet of flammable or combustible liquid storage areas.
 314                                                                      AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       22.5.9.8. Welding, cutting or brazing shall be accomplished IAW Chapter 27, Welding,
       Cutting and Brazing. Refer to Chapter 27 and 29 CFR 1910.252, Welding, Cutting and
       Brazing, for additional guidance.
   22.5.10. Handling Flammable and Combustible Liquids. Flammable and combustible liquids
   shall be drawn from or transferred into vessels, containers or portable tanks within a building
   only through a closed piping system, from safety cans, by means of a device through the top,
   or from a container or portable tanks by gravity through an approved self-closing valve.
   Transferring by means of air pressure on the container or portable tanks is prohibited. Refer
   to 29 CFR 1910.106. for additional information.
       22.5.10.1. Only approved safety containers shall be used for transporting and dispensing
       flammable liquids in quantities of five (5) gallons or less.
       22.5.10.2. Flammable liquids shall be kept in covered containers when not actually in
       use.
       22.5.10.3. Means shall be provided to clean up and remove spills. Refer to appropriate
       Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for spill clean-up procedures and PPE required.
       22.5.10.4. Class I liquids shall be used only where there are no open flames or other
       sources of ignition within the area or possible path of vapor travel.
       22.5.10.5. Safety cans or other portable containers of flammable liquids having a
       flashpoint at or below 80o F shall be red in color with additional clearly visible
       identification in the form of a yellow band around the container and the contents
       conspicuously stenciled or painted in black. If the contents are stenciled or painted in
       yellow, then the yellow band is not required to be around the container. Exception:
       Shipping containers. Refer to NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
   22.5.11. Incidental Storage of Flammable Liquids in Industrial Areas. Incidental storage
   shall be authorized only after the following requirements are met: (Reference NFPA 30.)
       22.5.11.1. Incidental storage shall be in industrial areas only.
       22.5.11.2. Storage shall be in metal cabinets stenciled, ―FLAMMABLE—KEEP FIRE
       AWAY‖ (metal wall lockers meet this requirement).
       22.5.11.3. Storage shall be limited to 1 gallon (4 liters) of Class I or 10 gallons (40
       Liters) of Class II and Class III liquids, not to exceed 10 gallons (40 liters) total per
       cabinet, in closed containers. Storage shall be limited to a 5-day supply of flammables in
       a metal cabinet, and in closed containers not to exceed limits specified in paragraphs
       22.5.7 and 22.5.9. Each work center shall be limited to one cabinet.
       22.5.11.4. The installation FES Flight shall be consulted prior to establishing incidental
       storage areas in industrial shops.
22.6. Specific Applications.
   22.6.1. Laboratories.
       22.6.1.1. General. Many laboratory operations require special control flammable and
       combustible liquids to protect personnel and equipment. Two types of laboratories are
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         315



       covered by this section: general laboratories and health-related laboratories. Refer to
       NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
       22.6.1.2. A list of working supplies and operating instructions on handling flammable
       and combustible liquids shall be published. The aggregate total outside of storage
       cabinets in any laboratory shall not exceed 10 gallons. All quantities of flammable and
       combustible liquids in one laboratory in excess of 10 gallons shall be stored in an
       approved storage cabinet or in an approved storage room. Flammable or combustible
       liquids shall not be stored or transferred from one vessel to another in any exit way,
       corridor or passageway leading to an exit. A minimum of one approved storage room
       shall be available within any building housing a laboratory which regularly maintains a
       reserve storage capacity in excess of 300 gallons. Refer to NFPA 45, Standard for Fire
       Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals, for additional guidance.
       22.6.1.3. Flammable or combustible liquids shall not be brought into a laboratory,
       receiving area, storage area or storage facility unless design, construction and fire
       protection requirements are suitable for the hazard and quantity involved. Container types
       and maximum capacities shall comply with Table 22.7 or Table 22.8, as appropriate.
       Plastic containers, if used to avoid breakage problems posed by glass containers or
       contamination problems with metal containers, must be approved for the liquid used.
       Containers used to draw from an original container must be marked to identify their
       contents. Refrigerators or cooling equipment used to store or cool flammable liquids shall
       be approved for the material being stored or cooled and labeled or stenciled, ―Approved
       for Flammable Liquid Storage.‖ See NFPA 45, Appendix A, for additional details on
       explosion proof, laboratory-safe, modified domestic or unmodified domestic refrigerators
       to achieve needed degree of protection and meet labeling requirements.
       22.6.1.4. Flammable and combustible liquids shall not be positioned near Bunsen
       burners, hot surfaces, steam pipes, valves or other sources of heat.
       22.6.1.5. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-22, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous
       Chemicals in Laboratories, for additional information regarding flammable, combustible
       and hazardous materials handling in laboratories.
   22.6.2. Fire Protection. All laboratories shall have fire protection appropriate for their fire
   hazard classification. Fire protection shall include, as a minimum, portable fire extinguishers,
   an alarm system and an evacuation and emergency plan. For additional details regarding
   required fire protection requirements, refer to NFPA 45.
   22.6.3. Disposal. Hazardous materials shall normally be removed and disposed of by a
   commercial disposal specialist who must comply with published environmental regulations.
   Contact the installation environmental management office for assistance. Also refer to AFI
   32-7042, Waste Management, for additional information.
22.7. Military Exchanges, Commissaries and Associate Retail Stores. In rooms or areas
accessible to the public, storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall be limited to
quantities needed for display and normal merchandising purposes, not to exceed two (2) gallons
per square foot of gross floor area. The gross floor area used for computing the maximum
 316                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


quantity permitted is that portion of the store actually being used for merchandising flammable
and combustible liquids. Refer to NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
   22.7.1. Storage of Class IA liquids shall be prohibited in basement display areas and limited
   to one (1) gallon per square foot on any other floor. In areas not protected, storage of Class
   IB, IC and II liquids on other than the ground floor shall be limited to one (1) gallon per
   square foot of gross floor area. Protected shall mean protected with automatic sprinklers
   installed IAW NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems.
   22.7.2. On floors above ground level, storage or display of Class I and Class II liquids shall
   be limited to 60 gallons in unprotected occupancies and 120 gallons in protected
   occupancies.
   22.7.3. Containers in a display area shall not be stacked more than three (3) feet or two (2)
   containers high, whichever is greater.
   22.7.4. Shelving shall be capable of supporting the load and containers on shelves must be
   arranged so they are not easily knocked off the shelves to the floor.
   22.7.5. Leaking containers shall be removed to a safe location outside the building, the
   contents transferred to an undamaged container, appropriately labeled, and the leaking
   container disposed in a safe manner.
   22.7.6. Storage shall be IAW Table 22.3 Buildings or portions of such buildings utilized for
   flammable and/or combustible storage shall be isolated by standard fire walls approved for
   the type and quantity of liquids being stored. Materials which create no fire hazard to the
   liquids may be stored in the same area.
   22.7.7. If the storage building is located 50 feet or less from a building or adjacent property
   line that may be built upon, the wall facing the building or property lines shall be a blank
   wall having a fire-resistance of at least two 2 hours. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.106. for additional
   information.
   22.7.8. The total quantity of liquids within the building is not restricted, but the arrangement
   of storage shall comply with Table 22.3
   22.7.9. Stacked containers of flammable liquids shall be separated by pallets or dunnage,
   where necessary, to provide stability and to prevent excessive stress on container walls.
   22.7.10. No stack shall be closer than three (3) feet to the nearest beam, chord, girder or
   other construction object, and shall be at least three (3) feet below sprinkler deflectors or
   discharge orifices of water spray or other installed fire protection systems.
   22.7.11. Aisles at least three (3) feet wide shall be provided for clear access to doors,
   windows or fire department connections.
   22.7.12. Containers shall bear clearly legible labels to identify contents and indicate hazards.
22.8. Small Gasoline Engine Powered Equipment. This section applies to lawnmowers, snow
blowers, generators, outboard marine motors, portable water pumps, small watercraft, powered
gardening tools and other implements powered by gasoline engines, typically 5-horsepower or
less. Refer to the latest edition of the National Safety Council (NSC), Accident Prevention
Manual and NFPA 30 for additional guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         317



  22.8.1. Fueling operations shall be conducted in outside areas free from ignition sources.
  Fuel tanks shall not be filled or drained inside buildings or other facilities where fuel vapors
  or other explosive gases can accumulate.
  22.8.2. Operators shall not refuel a running engine or one that is hot from recent use. They
  shall allow a minimum of five (5) minutes cooling time before starting refueling operations.
  22.8.3. Fueling and/or refueling operations shall be accomplished using a safety can with
  pouring spout or an appropriate sized funnel. Care shall be taken not to spill fuel onto hot
  surfaces. Spilled fuel shall be cleaned up before attempts are made to start equipment.
  22.8.4. Equipment shall be serviced after use and prior to extended off-season storage:
     22.8.4.1. Equipment shall be stored IAW manufacturer‘s instructions.
     22.8.4.2. The operator shall ensure equipment is thoroughly cleaned, functioning
     properly and the fuel tank is drained.
     22.8.4.3. Storage facilities shall be protected against tampering or unauthorized entry and
     area around the facility shall be kept free of weeds, debris and other combustibles.
     22.8.4.4. Workplace storage facilities shall be inspected monthly by supervisor and/or
     building custodian. The supervisor and/or building custodian shall document each
     inspection.
  22.8.5. Gasoline powered equipment shall not be stored in military family housing living
  areas, including basements, unless the storage room or area has walls and is separated from
  the living area by an un-pierced 1-hour rated fire-resistant partition and ceiling. All storage
  areas must be inspected (one-time inspection) and approved by the installation FES Flight.
  Subsequent inspections shall be accomplished IAW manufacturer‘s inspection and on a as
  required basis as determined by the installation FES Flight.
  22.8.6. Custodians of dormitories, multiple living quarters, assembly, institutional, military
  exchange, commissary and warehouse facilities shall store small gasoline powered
  equipment in an enclosed 1-hour fire-rated storage room. Boiler rooms and other utility
  rooms shall not be utilized as storage areas.
  22.8.7. Cleaned and drained small gasoline powered equipment may be stored during the
  off-season in inspection and testing facilities, munitions maintenance facilities, fire stations,
  shops and maintenance facilities. However, this equipment shall not be stored in hangars,
  nose docks, corrosion control, fuel cell repair or missile assembly and repair facilities. When
  stored, the equipment shall be isolated from potential ignition sources.
  22.8.8. Storage in theaters, conference facilities, open messes, clubs, recreation facilities,
  dormitories, temporary quarters or multiple unit family housing buildings containing more
  than three dwelling units, and hotels is limited to 10 gallons or less of Class I and II liquids
  and 20 gallons or less of Class III liquids stored in an approved storage container or in safety
  cans. Refer to Table 22.2 for additional guidance on storage in inside rooms.
  22.8.9. Storage of Class I, II and III liquids is limited to 10 gallons per resident unit.
  Included are single residences and those dwellings containing not more than three (3)
  dwelling units with attached or detached garages.
 318                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 22.1. Maximum Allowable Size Containers and Portable Tanks.
               Maximum Allowable Size Containers and Portable Tanks
                                               Flammable                   Combustible
                                                 Liquids                      Liquids
                            Class IA            IB          IC          II          III
Container Type
Glass or Approved Plastic 1          1 pt       1 qt        1 gal       1 gal       1 gal
Metal                                1 gal      5 gal       5 gal       5 gal       5 gal
(Other than Department of
Transportation [DOT] Drums)
Safety Cans                          2 gal      5 gal       5 gal       5 gal       5 gal
Metal Drums (DOT specification) 60 gal          60 gal      60 gal      60 gal      60 gal
Approved portable tanks              660 gal    660 gal     660 gal     660 gal     660 gal
Polyethylene DOT                     1 gal      5 gal       5 gal       60 gal      60 gal
Specification 34 or as
Authorized by DOT exception.
Reference 29 CFR 1910.106, Table H-12.
Note: Nearest metric size is also acceptable for glass and plastic containers listed.

Table 22.2. Storage in Inside Rooms.
                                Storage in Inside Rooms
Fire Protection       Fire Resistance          Maximum Size         Total Allowable
(Note: 1)             (Hours)                  (Sq. Ft.)            Quantities (Note: 2)
Provided                                                            (gals/sq. ft. floor area)
Yes                   2                        500                  10
No                    2                        500                  5
Yes                   1                        150                  4
No                    1                        150                  2
Reference 29 CFR 1910.106, Table H-13.
Note 1: Fire protection system will be sprinkler, water spray or equivalent.
Note 2: If metric containers are being stored, use the nearest metric equivalent.

Table 22.3. Indoor Container Storage.
                                 Indoor Container Storage
                                           Protected Storage            Unprotected Storage
                                           (Sprinkler System)           Maximum per Pile
                                           Maximum per Pile
Class           Storage Level                 Gallons                   Gallons
Liquid
IA              Ground & Upper Floors         2,750                     660
                55 Gallon drums               (50)                      (12)
                Basement                      Not Permitted             Not Permitted
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                            319



                                  Indoor Container Storage
                                            Protected Storage           Unprotected Storage
                                            (Sprinkler System)          Maximum per Pile
                                            Maximum per Pile
IB               Ground & Upper Floors        5,500 (100)               1,375 (25)
                 55 Gallon drums
                 Basement

IC               Ground & Upper Floors        5,500                     1,375
                 55 Gallon drums              (100)                     (25)
                 Basement                     Not Permitted             Not Permitted

II               Ground & Upper Floors        16,500                    4,125
                 55 Gallon drums              (300)                     (75)
                 Basement                     5,500                     Not Permitted

III              Ground & Upper Floors         55,000                    13,750
                 55 Gallon drums               (1000)                    (250)
                 Basement                      8,250                     Not Permitted
                 55 Gallon drums               (150)
Reference 29 CFR 1910.106, Table H-14.
Note 1: When two (2) or more classes of materials are stored in a single pile, the maximum
gallonage permitted in that pile will be the smallest of the two (2) or more separate gallonages.
Note 2: Aisles in general purpose warehouse storage will be provided so no container is more
than 12 feet from an aisle. Main aisles shall be at least three (3) feet wide and side aisles at least
four (4) feet wide.
Note 3: Each pile shall be separated from each other by at least four (4) feet.
Note 4: Refer to paragraph 22.7. for information on the storage of flammable aerosol containers
classified as Class I liquids and stored in military exchanges, commissaries or associated retail
stores.
Note 5: Numbers in parentheses indicate corresponding number of 55-gallon drums.

Table 22.4. Indoor Portable Tank Storage.
                             Indoor Portable Tank Storage
                                          Protected Storage             Unprotected Storage
                                          (Sprinkler System)            Maximum per Pile
Class                                     Maximum per Pile              (Gallons)
Liquid         Storage Level              (Gallons)
               Ground & Upper Floors      Not Permitted                 Not Permitted
IA             Basement                   Not Permitted                 Not Permitted
               Ground & Upper Floors      20,000                        2,000
IB             Basement                   Not Permitted                 Not Permitted
               Ground & Upper Floors      40,000                        5,500
IC             Basement                   Not Permitted                 Not Permitted
 320                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                   Indoor Portable Tank Storage
                                                  Protected Storage        Unprotected Storage
                                                  (Sprinkler System) Maximum per Pile
Class                                             Maximum per Pile (Gallons)
Liquid          Storage Level                     (Gallons)
                Ground & Upper Floors             40,000                   5,500
II              Basement                          20,000                   Not Permitted
                Ground & Upper Floors             60,000                   22,000
III             Basement                          20,000                   Not Permitted
Reference 29 CFR 1910.106, Table H-15.
Note 1: When one or more classes of material are stored in a single pile, the maximum
gallonage permitted in the pile will be the smallest of the two (2) or more separate maximum
gallonages.
Note 2: Aisles will be provided so no portable tank is more than 12 feet from an aisle. Main
aisles will be at least eight (8) feet wide and side aisles at least four (4) feet wide.
Note 3: Each pile will be separated from each other by at least four (4) feet.

Table 22.5. Outdoor Container Storage.
                                Outdoor Container Storage
Liquid             Maximum             Distance           Distance to          Distance to
Classification     Gallons per         between piles      property line        street, alley,
                   pile1               (ft)2              that can be built public way
                                                          upon (ft)3 & 4       (ft)4
IA                 1,000                       5                  20                 10
IB                 2,200                       5                  20                 10
IC                 4,400                       5                  20                 10
II                 8,800                       5                  10                  5
III                22,000                      5                  10                  5
Reference 29 CFR 1910.106, Table H-16
Note 1: When two (2) or more classes of material are stored in a single pile, the maximum
gallonage in that pile shall be the smallest of the two (2) or more separate gallonages.
Note 2: Within 200 feet of each container, there shall be a 12-foot wide access way to permit
approach of fire control apparatus.
Note 3: The distance listed applies to properties that have protection for exposures as defined. If
there are exposures, and such protection for exposures do not exist, the distance in column 4
(distance to property line that can be built upon) shall be doubled.
Note 4: When total quantity stored does not exceed 50 percent of maximum pile, the distance in
column 4 (distance to property line that can be built upon) and column 5 (distance to street, alley,
public way) may be reduced 50 percent, but will not be reduced to less than 3 feet.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          321



Table 22.6. Outdoor Portable Tank Storage.
                              Outdoor Portable Tank Storage
Liquid             Maximum             Distance           Distance to           Distance to
Classification     Gallons per         between piles      property line         street, alley,
                        1                  2
                   pile                (ft)               that can be built public way
                                                          upon (ft)3 & 4        (ft)4
IA                 2,200                       5                 20                   10
IB                 4,400                       5                 20                   10
IC                 8,800                       5                 20                   10
II                 17,600                      5                 10                    5
III                44,000                      5                 10                    5
Reference 29 CFR 1910.106, Table H-17.
Note 1: When two (2) or more classes of material are stored in a single pile, the maximum
gallonage in that pile shall be the smallest of the two (2) or more separate gallonage.
Note 2: Within 200 feet of each portable tank, there shall be a 12-foot wide access way to
permit approach of fire control apparatus.
Note 3: The distance listed applies to properties that have adequate protection for structures
adjacent to the storage tanks. If there are exposures, and such protection does not exist, the
distance to the property line that can be built upon shall be doubled.
Note 4: When total quantity stored does not exceed 50 percent of the maximum per pile, the
distance to property line that can be built upon and distance to street, alley, and public way may
be reduced 50 percent, but will not be reduced to less than 3 feet.

Table 22.7. Maximum Allowable Size of Containers — General Laboratories.
          Maximum Allowable Size of Containers — General Laboratories

Class of Flammable or         IA           IB            IC           II          III
Combustible Liquid

Container Type
Glass                         1 pt1        1 qt1         1 gal1       1 gal2      1 gal2
Metal (Other than DOT         1 gal        5 gal3        5 gal3       5 gal3      5 gal3
drums) and Approved
Plastic Safety Cans
Safety Cans (metal)           2 gal        5 gal3        5 gal3       5 gal3      5 gal3
Metal drums (DOT Spec)        N/A          5 gal3        5 gal3       60 gal3     60 gal3
Reference NFPA 45.

Note 1: Nearest metric equivalent is acceptable. Sizes as large as one gallon or four (4) liters
may be used if the liquid would be adversely affected by storage in metal or if the liquid would
cause excessive corrosion of the metal container.
Note 2: Nearest metric equivalent.
Note 3: In instructional laboratories, containers of Class I or Class II liquids will not exceed one
gallon or three (3) liters, except for safety cans where two (2) gallons capacity may be used.
 322                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 22.8. Maximum Allowable Size of Containers — Health-Related Laboratories.
         Maximum Allowable Size of Containers — Health-Related Laboratories
Class of Flammable              IA           IB    IC          II           III
Or Combustible Liquid
Glass or approved plastic1      1 pt2        1 qt2 1 gal2      1 gal2       1 gal2
Safety Cans                     1 gal        2 gal 2 gal       2 gal        2 gal
Reference NFPA 45.
Note 1: Gravity feed containers not permitted.
Note 2: Nearest metric equivalent is acceptable.

Table 22.9. Maximum Allowable Quantities per Control Area.

                     Maximum Allowable Quantities per Control Area

             MAQ of Flammable and Combustible Liquids per Control Area
                                                                   Quantity
                               Liquid Class(es)              gal              L      Notes
 Flammable liquids                     IA                     30              115     1, 2
                                   IB and IC                 120              460     1, 2
                              IA, IB, IC combined            120              460    1, 2, 3
 Combustible liquids                   II                    120              460     1, 2
                                      IIIA                   330          1,265       1, 2
                                      IIIB                 13,200         50,600      1, 4
  Reference: Table 34.1.3.1 of NFPA 5000, 2006 edition.
  Note 1: Quantities are permitted to be increased 100 percent where stored in approved
  flammable liquids storage cabinets or in safety cans in accordance with the fire code.
  Where Note 2 also applies, the increase for both notes is permitted to be applied
  accumulatively.
  Note 2: Quantities are permitted to be increased 100 percent in buildings equipped
  throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with NFPA 13,
  Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems. Where Note 1 also applies, the increase
  for both notes is permitted to be applied accumulatively.
  Note 3: Containing not more than the maximum allowable quantity per control area of
  Class IA, Class IB, or Class IC flammable liquids, individually.
  Note 4: Quantities are not limited in a building equipped throughout with an automatic
  sprinkler system installed in accordance with NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of
  Sprinkler Systems
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         323



Table 22.10. Classifications of Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
            Classifications of Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Designation                Class                    Subclass Definition
Flammable                  Class I                  Any liquid with flashpoint
                                                    below 100°F; 37.7°C.
                           Class IA                 Includes liquids having
                                                    flashpoints below 73°F;
                                                    22.7°C and having a
                                                    boiling point below 100°F;
                                                    37.7°C
                           Class IB                 Includes liquids having
                                                    flashpoints below 73°F;
                                                    22.7°C and having a boiling
                                                    point at or above 100°F;
                                                    37.7°C.
                           Class IC                 Includes liquids having
                                                    flashpoints at or above
                                                    73°F; 22.7°C and below
                                                    100°F; 37.7°C.
Combustible                Class II                 Includes those liquids with
                                                    flashpoints at or above
                                                    100°F; 37.7°C and below
                                                    140°F; 60°C.
                           Class III                Includes those liquids with
                                                    flashpoints at or above
                                                    140°F; 60°C.
                           Class IIIA               Includes those liquids with
                                                    flashpoints at or above
                                                    140°F; 60°C and below
                                                    200°F; 93.3°C.
                           Class IIIB               Includes those with
                                                    flashpoints at or above
                                                    200°F; 93.3°C.
22.9. Flammable and Combustible Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   22.9.1. Have all personnel been provided appropriate PPE and been trained on its use, care,
   maintenance and reporting procedures on unserviceable PPE? Reference 22.3.3
   22.9.2. Have all personnel handling, storing or using flammable or combustible liquids
   received the appropriate levels of training commensurate with the degree of hazard?
   Reference 22.4.1.2
324                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  22.9.3. Have pre-fire plans been developed for the flammable and combustible liquids area?
  Reference 22.5.1
  22.9.4. Have appropriate containers and portable tanks been procured to meet handling,
  storage and dispensing requirements? Reference 22.5.2
  22.9.5. Is the capacity of flammable or combustible liquid containers IAW Table 22.1?
  Reference 22.5.2.1
  22.9.6. Are flammable and combustible liquids prohibited from office occupancies except
  those required for maintenance and operation of building and operating equipment?
  Reference 22.5.2.3
  22.9.7. Are no more than 120 gallons of Class I, Class II and Class IIIA liquids stored in a
  storage cabinet? Reference 22.5.3
  22.9.8. Are cabinets conspicuously labeled ―Flammable — Keep Fire Away‖? Reference
  22.5.3.2
  22.9.9. Does electrical wiring and equipment located within flammable or combustible
  storage rooms meet the requirements of NFPA 70 for hazardous location as determined by
  the class of materials stored? Reference 22.5.5
  22.9.10. Are containers used for dispensing or transferring of liquids electrically
  interconnected (bonded) to prevent static discharges? Reference 22.5.5.2
  22.9.11. Is every inside storage room provided with a gravity or mechanical exhaust
  ventilation system? Reference 22.5.6
  22.9.12. Is drainage provided in locations where dispensing or transfers are accomplished?
  Reference 22.5.6
  22.9.13. Does exhaust air from the room go directly to the exterior of the building?
  Reference 22.5.6.1
  22.9.14. Are storage and fire resistive ratings in compliance with Table 22.2? Reference
  22.5.7
  22.9.15. Are 3-foot aisles maintained in all inside storage areas? Reference 22.5.7
  22.9.16. Are containers over 30-gallon capacity not stacked one upon the other? Reference
  22.5.7
  22.9.17. Is there at least one 40-B portable fire extinguisher located outside of and within 10
  feet of the door opening into an inside liquid storage area? Reference 22.5.7.1
  22.9.18. Is there at least one portable fire extinguisher rated at least 40-BC located within 30
  feet of any Class I or Class II liquid storage area outside of a storage room but inside a
  building? Reference 22.5.7.2
  22.9.19. Does the inside storage of any flammable or combustible liquids not physically
  obstruct a means of egress from the building or area? Reference 22.5.8.1
  22.9.20. Are leaking containers removed to a safe location outside the building and the
  contents transferred to an undamaged container? Reference 22.5.8.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        325



  22.9.21. Are flammable paints, oils and varnishes in 1 to 5 gallon containers, used for
  building maintenance purposes, only stored temporarily in closed containers outside
  approved storage cabinets or rooms if kept at the job site for less than 10 calendar days?
  Reference 22.5.8.5
  22.9.22. Are water reactive materials not stored in the same room with flammable and
  combustible liquids? Reference 22.5.8.7
  22.9.23. Do base supply warehouses, base exchange storage rooms and commissary storage
  areas comply with Table 22.3? Reference 22.5.8.8
  22.9.24. Are buildings or portions of buildings used for the storage of flammables or
  combustibles isolated by standard fire walls approved for the type and quantity of liquids
  being stored? Reference 22.5.8.8
  22.9.25. Does the arrangement of liquid storage within a building comply with Table 22.3
  and Table 22.4? Reference 22.5.8.10
  22.9.26. Are stacked containers of flammable liquids separated by pallets or dunnage, where
  necessary, to provide stability and to prevent excessive stress on container walls? Reference
  22.5.8.11
  22.9.27. Are portable tanks which are stored over one tier high designed to nest securely
  without dunnage? Reference 22.5.8.12
  22.9.28. Is adequate material handling equipment available to handle tanks safely at upper
  tier levels? Reference 22.5.8.12
  22.9.29. Is no stack closer than three (3) feet to the nearest beam, chord, girder or other
  obstruction and at least three (3) feet below sprinkler deflector or discharge orifices of water
  spray or other installed fire protection system? Reference 22.5.8.13
  22.9.30. Do containers bear clearly legible labels to identify contents and indicate hazards?
  Reference 22.5.8.15
  22.9.31. When curbs are used, are provisions made for draining accumulations of ground or
  rain water or spills of flammable or combustible liquids? Reference 22.5.9.3
  22.9.32. Do drains terminate at a safe location and are they directly accessible to the fire
  operations? Reference 22.5.9.3
  22.9.33. Is at least one portable fire extinguisher rated not less than 20-B located between 10
  feet and 25 feet travel distance of any Class I or Class II liquid storage area outside of a
  storage room? Reference 22.5.9.4
  22.9.34. Are containers and portable tanks used for Class I liquids grounded and bonded
  during liquid transfer? Reference 22.5.9.6
  22.9.35. Are containers having flammable or combustible liquids protected from heat
  sources? Reference 22.5.9.7
  22.9.36. Are open flame devices and smoking prohibited within 50 feet of the flammable or
  combustible storage area? Reference 22.5.9.7
326                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  22.9.37. Are approved safety cans used for transporting and dispensing flammable liquids in
  quantities of five (5) gallons or less? Reference 22.5.10.1
  22.9.38. Are flammable liquids kept in covered containers when not actually in use?
  Reference 22.5.10.2
  22.9.39. Are plans made and means available to promptly clean up or remove spills?
  Reference 22.5.10.3
  22.9.40. Are Class I liquids used only where there are no open flames or other sources of
  ignition within the area or possible path of vapor travel? Reference 22.5.10.4
  22.9.41. Has a list of working supplies and operating instructions on handling of flammable
  and combustible liquids been developed? Reference 22.6.1.2
  22.9.42. If the total quantity of flammable or combustible liquids exceeds 10 gallons, are
  they stored in an approved storage cabinet or storage room? Reference 22.6.1.2
  22.9.43. Are flammable or combustible liquids prohibited from being stored or transferred
  from one vessel to another in any exit way, corridor or passageway leading to an exit?
  Reference 22.6.1.2
  22.9.44. Are flammable and combustible liquids prohibited from receiving areas, storage
  areas or storage facilities unless adequately approved design, construction and fire protection
  requirements are suitable for the hazard and quantity involved? Reference 22.6.1.3
  22.9.45. Are containers used to draw from an original container marked to identify their
  contents? Reference 22.6.1.3
  22.9.46. Are refrigerators or cooling equipment labeled or stenciled ―Approved for
  Flammable Liquid Storage‖? Reference 22.6.1.3
  22.9.47. Are flammables and combustibles kept away from open flames, hot surfaces, steam
  pipes or other heat sources? Reference 22.6.1.4
  22.9.48. Do laboratories have fire protection appropriate for their fire hazard classification?
  Reference 22.6.2)
  22.9.49. In rooms or other areas accessible to the public, is storage limited to quantities
  needed for display and normal merchandising purposes not to exceed two (2) gallons per
  square foot of gross floor area? Reference 22.7
  22.9.50. Are Class IA flammables prohibited in basement areas and limited to one (1) gallon
  per square foot on any other floor? Reference 22.7.1
  22.9.51. Are Class IB, IC and II liquids in areas, other than the ground floor, not protected
  limited to one (1) gallon per square foot of gross floor area? Reference 22.7.1
  22.9.52. On floors above ground level, is storage or display of Class I and Class II liquids
  limited to 60 gallons in unprotected occupancies and 120 gallons in protected occupancies?
  Reference 22.7.2
  22.9.53. Are containers in a display not stacked more than three (3) feet or two (2)
  containers high, whichever is greater? Reference 22.7.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        327



  22.9.54. Are leaking containers removed to a safe location and the contents transferred to an
  undamaged container, appropriately labeled, and the leaking container disposed of in a safe
  manner? Reference 22.7.5
  22.9.55. Are stacked containers separated by pallets or dunnage where necessary, to provide
  stability and to prevent excessive stress on the containers‘ walls? Reference 22.7.9
  22.9.56. Are stacks no closer than three (3) feet from the nearest beam, chord, girder or other
  construction object, and no closer than three (3) feet below sprinkler deflector or discharge
  orifices of water spray or other installed fire protection system? Reference 22.7.10
  22.9.57. Are aisles at least three (3) feet wide provided for clear access to doors, windows or
  fire department connections? Reference 22.7.11
  22.9.58. Do all containers bear clearly legible labels to identify contents and indicate
  hazards? Reference 22.7.12
  22.9.59. Are fueling operations conducted in outside areas free from ignition sources?
  Reference22.8.1
  22.9.60. Are fuel tanks not filled or drained inside buildings or other facilities where vapors
  can accumulate? Reference 22.8.1
  22.9.61. Are refueling operations conducted after engines have had a minimum of five (5)
  minutes of cooling time? Reference 22.8.2
  22.9.62. Are refueling operations accomplished using a safety can with pouring spout or
  funnel? Reference 22.8.3
  22.9.63. Are fuel spills appropriately cleaned up before attempting to start any engine?
  Reference 22.8.3
  22.9.64. Are storage facilities protected against tampering or unauthorized entry and the area
  around the facility free of weeds, debris and other combustibles? Reference 22.8.4.3
  22.9.65. Are all storage areas or facilities inspected frequently and documented by the
  supervisor and/or building custodian? Reference 22.8.4.4
  22.9.66. Are storage areas in military family housing inspected and approved by the
  installation FES Flight prior to use? Reference 22.8.5
  22.9.67. Are boiler rooms, equipment rooms and other utility rooms not utilized as storage
  areas for gasoline powered equipment? Reference 22.8.6
  22.9.68. Are there restrictions on storing small gasoline powered equipment in hangars, nose
  docks, corrosion control, fuel cell repair, or missile assembly and repair facilities? Reference
  22.8.7
  22.9.69. When stored, is gasoline powered equipment isolated from potential ignition
  sources? Reference 22.8.7
  22.9.70. Is storage of Class I, II and III liquids limited to 10 gallons per resident unit in
  single residences and those dwellings containing not more than three (3) dwelling units with
  garages? Reference 22.8.9
 328                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 23

                                    CONFINED SPACES

23.1. General Information.
   23.1.1. Hazards. Personnel entering or working in confined spaces may encounter a number
   of potentially serious hazards. These may include atmospheric hazards such as insufficient
   oxygen to support life, excessive oxygen levels that increase the danger of fire or explosion,
   flammable or explosive atmospheres and materials, or toxic gases or materials. In addition,
   the confined work space may include electrical or mechanical hazards that must be locked
   out, or engulfment or entrapment hazards. Many of these hazards are not readily apparent,
   detectable by odor or visible, which may result in workers entering confined spaces without
   consideration of potential dangers. Workers must consider that all confined spaces contain
   unfavorable and unsafe conditions. They shall not enter or work in these spaces until tests,
   evaluation and prescribed requirements of this standard and any locally-developed
   procedures are performed to ensure safe conditions exist prior to entry and are maintained
   during the entire work period.
   23.1.2. Human Factors. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, for guidance and information
   on human factors.
23.2. Responsibilities.
   23.2.1. Major Commands (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Units (DRU) and Field Operating
   Agencies (FOA) will:
       23.2.1.1. Ensure the Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC)
       provides program oversight through a variety of means that may include Environmental,
       Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment Programs (ESOHCAMPs),
       inspections, evaluations and Staff Assistance Visits (SAV), to include assistance with
       resolution of identified deficiencies.
       23.2.1.2. Ensure subordinate units‘ confined space programs are reviewed as part of
       internal/external ESOHCAMPs, during Program Evaluations, ESOH visits, a separate
       review by the ESOHC or SAV. The review shall include the number and type of confined
       spaces, the installation‘s major issues/challenges and the number of entry permits and
       Master Entry Plans (MEPs) approved. Results of this review will be to determine both
       positive and negative trends in the confined space program.
       23.2.1.3. Standardize MEP documentation to fit command needs as required.
   23.2.2. Installation Ground Safety (SEG). The Chief of Ground Safety/Ground Safety
   Manager will:
       23.2.2.1. Serve as the focal point for implementation of this standard.
       23.2.2.2. Coordinate the installation confined space program.
       23.2.2.3. Lead the installation Confined Space Program Team (CSPT).
       23.2.2.4. Ensure any ground safety representative on the CSPT is trained in confined
       space program requirements. This training shall include a formal confined space course
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    329



     and a hands-on portion. Formal training may be accomplished via computer-based
     training (CBT), available through the AFCESA Virtual Learning Center (VLC) under the
     ADLS Gateway, the OSHA Course 226, Permit-Required Confined Space Entry, or other
     MAJCOM-approved CBTs. Hands-on training will cover the requirements of this
     guidance and specific local issues and conditions. Training shall be documented in the
     individual‘s OJT records. The AFCESA VLC CBT, Confined Space General Worker:
     Entrant, Attendant, and Supervisors Course, has been developed to ensure all personnel
     involved in confined space operations are trained on confined space program
     requirements. Each MAJCOM may develop and present training in methods (power point
     presentations, training plans, etc.) other than CBT.
     23.2.2.5. Maintain confined space records provided by the organization, whether located
     on or off the installation, i.e., geographically separated units. Records will include a
     listing of all permit-required and non-permit confined spaces. Listing, at a minimum,
     shall include unit and location of the confined space. A map of the confined spaces may
     be included, but is not mandatory.
         23.2.2.5.1. Verify all possible means have been employed in an effort to reduce the
         hazard classification of the space.
         23.2.2.5.2. Verify organizational entry supervisors are trained, qualified and
         experienced to authorize permit-required confined space entries.
         23.2.2.5.3. Verify organizational procedures and confirm appropriate rescue teams
         and equipment are immediately available prior to planned entry.
     23.2.2.6. Evaluate the effectiveness of unit procedures implemented to protect the
     entrants.
     23.2.2.7. In conjunction with BE, assist entry supervisors and functional managers in the
     selection of personal protective equipment (PPE).
     23.2.2.8. Assist, as required, training entry supervisors who issue entry permits and
     authorize entries into permit-required confined spaces.
     23.2.2.9. When required, assist the functional manager in obtaining training for confined
     space entry team members.
     23.2.2.10. Upon request, train organizational confined space entry team members on the
     requirements contained in this standard.
     23.2.2.11. Review and recommend approval of non-routine entry permits which are not
     contained in an organization MEP to the CSPT.
  23.2.3. Installation Fire Chief will:
     23.2.3.1. Ensure the Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight representative(s) on the
     CSPT is (are) trained in confined space requirements. Each individual shall have attended
     a formal confined space course.
     23.2.3.2. When requested, assist the functional manager in obtaining training for
     entrants, entry supervisors and organizational rescue teams.
330                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      23.2.3.3. Assist in identification and selection of required equipment, to include PPE and
      full-face piece demand self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) certified by NIOSH
      for a minimum service life of 30 minutes or a combination full-face piece pressure
      supplied-air respirator (SAR) with auxiliary self-contained air supply, for organizational
      rescue teams.
      23.2.3.4. Review and approve non-routine entry permits that are not contained in an
      organization MEP.
      23.2.3.5. Evaluate confined spaces for oxygen-enriched atmosphere, flammability and
      toxicity when permitting entries that are covered by an MEP.
      23.2.3.6. Be a CSPT member.
  23.2.4. Installation Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) will:
      23.2.4.1. IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, is the OPR
      for the installation respiratory program and is the sole authority for selecting appropriate
      respiratory equipment and enrolling all personnel who may enter confined spaces into the
      installation respiratory protection program.
      23.2.4.2. Ensure at least one BE representative on the CSPT is trained in confined space
      requirements. Each individual shall have attended a formal confined space course.
      Additionally, if required, BE shall request Defense Health Program (DHP) funds to
      maintain a fully trained individual on the CSPT.
      23.2.4.3. Provide local training on the use, calibration (user) and care of atmosphere
      testing and monitoring equipment annually. Certify organizational personnel, as required,
      to test confined spaces. If unable to support this requirement, BE should assist in
      identifying a training resource. In isolated cases where organizational personnel are not
      available, provide appropriate atmospheric testing and monitoring for permit-required
      confined spaces operations. Note: BE shall not test or monitor a confined space for a
      contracted confined space operation. The contractor is required to conduct its own
      exposure monitoring during permit-required confined space operations.
      23.2.4.4. Review and approve non-routine entry permits which are not contained in an
      organization MEP.
      23.2.4.5. Assist in training personnel for confined space duties.
      23.2.4.6. Evaluate potential worker exposure related to confined spaces IAW AFMAN
      48-153, Health Risk Assessment.
      23.2.4.7. Assist functional managers and entry supervisors in the selection of proper
      PPE.
      23.2.4.8. Assist entry supervisors in the interpretation of monitoring results.
      23.2.4.9. If certified organizational personnel are not available:
         23.2.4.9.1. Evaluate confined spaces for hazardous atmospheres and Immediately
         Dangerous to Life and Health (IDLH) conditions as necessary to meet mission
         requirements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         331



         23.2.4.9.2. Sample the atmosphere in the confined space as often as required to
         ensure changing conditions do not result in hazardous atmospheres.
     23.2.4.10. Be a member of the CSPT.
  23.2.5. Confined Space Program Team (CSPT). The primary purpose of the CSPT is to
  assist commanders and functional managers in developing and administering confined space
  programs. CSPT membership includes representatives from installation Ground Safety
  office, BE, FES Flight and the functional manager, commander or their designated
  representative. The CSPT will:
     23.2.5.1. With the participation of the functional managers and commanders, assist in the
     identification, evaluation and classification of all confined spaces.
     23.2.5.2. Develop and provide a CSPT train-the-trainer program for entry supervisors
     and personnel who perform confined space operations. If limited resources prohibit the
     CSPT from providing this program, the CSPT shall identify acceptable external training
     sources.
     23.2.5.3. Assist in developing local controls and procedures for confined space entries.
     23.2.5.4. Assist with developing a MEP when requested by the functional manager or
     commander. The MEP, a part of the overall written confined space program, will serve as
     approval for recurring entries having the same conditions and entry requirements when
     signed by representatives of installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE. The
     MEP allows functional managers and commanders to designate entry supervisors to issue
     entry permits. Permits shall not be issued when unexpected conditions exist that have not
     been anticipated or allowed for in the MEP, unless the condition can be eliminated or
     controlled. If hazardous conditions develop after entry that cannot be eliminated or
     controlled, the entry shall be terminated, the permit revoked and retained for one year,
     and Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE shall be contacted before proceeding. The
     MEP will:
         23.2.5.4.1. Describe the acceptable entry conditions, including atmospheric
         conditions, under which permits may be issued.
         23.2.5.4.2. Designate as many entry supervisors as needed for the organization.
         23.2.5.4.3. Identify types and locations of spaces to be entered and types of tasks or
         operations to be performed.
         23.2.5.4.4. List either by reference or direct statement in the MEP the procedures to
         be used for entry, e.g., shop OI that cover specific tasks.
         23.2.5.4.5. Account for around-the-clock operations, when appropriate.
         23.2.5.4.6. List PPE, monitoring and rescue equipment, and conditions under which
         it shall be used.
         23.2.5.4.7. Designate frequency and type of atmospheric monitoring.
         23.2.5.4.8. List other controls required, e.g., lockout and/or tagout, ventilation.
332                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         23.2.5.4.9. List chemicals and quantities authorized for use. List expected exposure
         levels based on air sampling results. Based on exposure levels, perform reassessments
         of the confined spaces IAW requirements in paragraph 23.2.5.4.7.
         23.2.5.4.10. List conditions under which the space may be reclassified as described
         in paragraph 23.5.4.11.
         23.2.5.4.11. Provide procedures for amending the MEP.
         23.2.5.4.12. Require verification of the condition of all monitoring equipment and
         PPE.
         23.2.5.4.13. Be maintained by the entry supervisor at the worksite.
         23.2.5.4.14. Include provisions for entry during potential emergency situations.
         23.2.5.4.15. Establish emergency rescue procedures for each permit-required
         confined space. Include provisions for entry during potential emergency situations to
         include IDLH conditions. Refer to paragraph 23.6 for additional guidance.
         23.2.5.4.16. Establish communication procedures and identify communication
         equipment to be used during entries.
         23.2.5.4.17. Require the ready availability of rescue, atmospheric testing and safety-
         related equipment such as lifting or retrieval devices, respiratory equipment and other
         equipment, as necessary, for the entry as determined by the permit system.
         23.2.5.4.18. Require adequate attachment points outside the confined space for tying-
         off or otherwise securing retrieval lines for all authorized entrants.
         23.2.5.4.19. Require an equivalent method for rescue when retrieval lines themselves
         may constitute an entanglement hazard or otherwise cannot be used.
         23.2.5.4.20. Require availability of a rescue team. If the installation FES Flight is not
         available, verify availability of an organizational rescue team or other emergency
         rescue team. The operation shall be halted if the primary rescue team becomes
         unavailable until the primary team returns or a secondary trained and qualified team
         is available.
         23.2.5.4.21. Require a reliable method, i.e., telephone, radio, etc., for summoning the
         rescue team and ensure it is operable, on hand or easily accessible.
         23.2.5.4.22. Require functional manager or shop supervisor brief entry supervisor(s)
         on their duties prior to performing the operation.
      23.2.5.5. Determine atmospheric monitoring requirements.
      23.2.5.6. Evaluate and approve MEPs.
      23.2.5.7. Review the installation confined space program at least annually. The review
      will include a review of all MEPs; an assessment of training, rescue procedures and
      qualifications of entry supervisors; a review of expired and/or revoked entry permits; and
      any changes to Air Force or MAJCOM confined spaces guidance. Additionally, a
      discussion shall be held regarding current Ground Safety, BE and FES Flight issues,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         333



     including surveillance and spot inspection findings for the last period, identifying any
     known vulnerabilities and establishing control measures for each.
     23.2.5.8. Establish procedures with the contracting office to review all construction
     projects to identify, record and classify confined spaces. Note: This is only applicable if
     Air Force or DoD government civilian workers shall be entering or working in that
     confined space during construction.
     23.2.5.9. Use AF Form 1024, Confined Space Entry Permit, or may authorize the use of
     an automated product or letter format for the MEP. Refer to Figure 23.2 and paragraph
     23.10 for additional information.
     23.2.5.10. When possible, periodically monitor permit-required space entry operations.
     23.2.5.11. Ensure non-permit required confined spaces are reviewed whenever entry is
     made IAW paragraph 23.5.6.2
     23.2.5.12. Discuss the installation‘s confined space program to include any changes to
     identified confined spaces (additions/deletions), unit MEPs, an assessment of training,
     rescue procedures, qualifications of entry supervisors, completed and revoked entry
     permits, organizational reviews of non-permit confined spaces and other
     issues/challenges of the program.
     23.2.5.13. Provide the installation Ground Safety office an annual status report on the
     installation‘s confined space program. The report shall include, as a minimum, the
     number and type of confined spaces, the installation‘s major issues/challenges, the
     number of personnel trained on confined space operations and the number of entry
     permits and MEPs approved.
     23.2.5.14. Meet at least annually to discuss the installation‘s confined space program.
     23.2.5.15. As a minimum, all documents requiring CSPT approval will gain approval
     from the primary membership, as well as the appointed CSPT member from the owning
     unit.
     23.2.5.16. If no Air Force personnel will enter installation confined spaces, the
     installation Ground Safety office may act in place of the installation CSPT (no CSPT
     required) provided they:
         23.2.5.16.1. Maintain a current list of all installation confined spaces.
         23.2.5.16.2. Ensure only contractor personnel are allowed to enter confined spaces.
  23.2.6. Installation Wing Staff. Each organization that requires entry into confined spaces is
  responsible for its related portions of the confined space entry program, with assistance from
  the CSPT.
  23.2.7. Commanders and/or Functional Managers will:
     23.2.7.1. Ensure a written MEP and confined space program are developed, implemented
     and approved by the CSPT (only required for permit-required confined space programs).
     Serve as a member or designate a representative to the CSPT for management of confined
     spaces within the functional manager‘s control.
334                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      23.2.7.2. Ensure all personnel assigned duties and responsibilities that support permit-
      required confined space program tasks are properly trained, equipped and qualified.
      Training may be accomplished via the CBT CD-ROM, Confined Space Series General
      Worker: Entrant, Attendant, Supervisor, OSHA Course 226, Permit-Required Confined
      Space Entry, or equivalent, or by the installation CSPT. Ensure training is documented on
      an AF IMT 55 or an equivalent authorized computerized information management
      system. Note: Recommend personnel entering non-permit required confined spaces
      receive the same training as personnel entering permit required spaces, or at a minimum,
      confined spaces awareness training to recognize a confined space.
      23.2.7.3. Ensure required equipment is procured to support entry into confined spaces.
      Equipment shall be available and properly maintained (operational).
      23.2.7.4. Ensure a current list of all confined spaces, both permit-required and non-
      permit, under the control of the organization or function, is maintained.
      23.2.7.5. Provide a copy of the list of all confined spaces, permit-required and non-
      permit, to the installation CSPT and Environmental Management office. The list shall
      include, at a minimum, the number of spaces (quantity), type (with every entry point
      uniquely identified and listed) and exact location (e.g., grid coordinates, GPS coordinates,
      if available, highlighted maps, if necessary).
      23.2.7.6. Designate entry supervisors.
      23.2.7.7. Ensure all non-permit required confined spaces under their control are reviewed
      whenever entry is made to ascertain that no changes occurred which would affect the
      original classification. If necessary, assistance may be obtained from the installation
      CSPT to reevaluate the confined spaces. If changes occur, provide an updated list to
      appropriate agencies.
      23.2.7.8. Identify, evaluate and classify all the unit‘s confined spaces, with the
      participation of the installation CSPT.
      23.2.7.9. Obtain BE approval for purchase of monitoring equipment for units requiring
      atmospheric testing and monitoring equipment. Each unit shall maintain a list of
      personnel trained and qualified to conduct atmospheric testing of confined spaces. BE
      testing and monitoring support does not apply to contractor confined space entries.
      Contractors shall conduct their own exposure monitoring during entry operations.
      23.2.7.10. Ensure identified confined space program shortfalls, e.g., equipment,
      manning, funding, etc., are up-channeled and coordinated with the appropriate MAJCOM
      and higher headquarters.
  23.2.8. Prior to start of entry, the operations Entry (On-site) Supervisor will:
      23.2.8.1. Be responsible for authorizing entry, overseeing entry operations and for
      terminating entry if a change in conditions warrant.
         23.2.8.1.1. Issue entry permits consistent with the MEP.
         23.2.8.1.2. Revoke the permit and contact installation Ground Safety office when any
         entry condition is not consistent with the MEP.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       335



     23.2.8.2. Determine acceptable conditions are present at a permit-required space where
     entry is planned.
     23.2.8.3. Ensure a qualified person (trained in the operation of direct-reading oxygen,
     flammability and toxicity monitoring equipment) evaluates and classifies the confined
     space IAW Table 23.1
     23.2.8.4. Coordinate assistance from Ground Safety office, BE or FES Flight, as
     required.
     23.2.8.5. Ensure workers are properly trained and qualified in safe operating and
     emergency procedures, use of protective equipment and how to egress. Ensure workers
     who are ill or are on medication that may affect their ability to safely perform assigned
     tasks are excused from the operation. Refer to paragraph 23.2.10.4.
     23.2.8.6. Brief workers on hazards of entry, e.g., chemicals that were in the tank, effects
     of inhalation of vapors, safety and health hazards inherent in cleaning or internal confined
     space operations, etc.
     23.2.8.7. Inspect work area, tools and equipment to identify and correct hazards.
     23.2.8.8. Select appropriate PPE with help from Ground Safety office, FES Flight and
     BE. Ensure availability, condition and use of all protective clothing and other PPE
     necessary for safe entry. Ensure personnel working in a confined or enclosed workspace
     that contains exposed energized parts are provided and use protective shields, protective
     barriers or insulating materials as necessary to avoid inadvertent contact with these parts.
     Entry supervisor shall brief that doors, hinged panels and the like shall be secured to
     prevent their swinging into a worker and causing the worker to contact exposed energized
     parts. Refer to NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace, for additional
     guidance.
     23.2.8.9. Ensure respiratory equipment is in safe operating condition and personnel are
     trained on proper procedures for use.
     23.2.8.10. Ensure all valves are isolated, locked out and blinded or blanked to prevent
     anything from being accidentally pumped into the confined space.
     23.2.8.11. Ensure all electrical power sources and electrical equipment meet safety
     requirements for the atmosphere in the confined space. Also, ensure all electrical power
     is de-energized, locked out and made electrically safe IAW AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe
     Practices. Refer to ETL 06-9, Arc Flash Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for
     requirements on working on high-voltage overhead line work at 69kV (nominal) or less.
     23.2.8.12. Establish emergency procedures to rescue persons incapacitated in the
     confined space. These will include:
        23.2.8.12.1. Ensuring ready availability of rescue and safety-related equipment, such
        as lifting or retrieval devices, respiratory equipment and others necessary for the
        entry, as determined by the permit system.
        23.2.8.12.2. Ensuring adequate attachment points outside the confined space for
        tying-off or otherwise securing retrieval lines for all authorized entrants.
336                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         23.2.8.12.3. Providing an equivalent method for rescue when retrieval lines
         themselves may constitute an entanglement hazard or otherwise cannot be used.
         23.2.8.12.4. Determining availability of a rescue team. If the installation FES Flight
         is not available, verify availability of an organizational rescue team or other
         emergency rescue team. The operation shall be halted if the rescue team becomes
         unavailable. Ensure on-site standby of organizational rescue team for permit-required
         confined space entry that is IDLH.
         23.2.8.12.5. Ensuring the means, i.e. telephone, radio, etc., for summoning the rescue
         team is operable, on hand or easily accessible.
      23.2.8.13. Ensure qualified personnel conduct atmospheric monitoring prior to allowing
      entry. Ensure sample test readings are taken in the top third, middle third and lower third
      of the confined space. Ensure oxygen, LEL and toxicity are monitored as specified in
      paragraph 23.3.3.8.
      23.2.8.14. Be the last person to sign the entry permit after all conditions are met. If
      necessary, perform entrant or attendant duties when properly trained. Be permitted to
      transfer duties of the entry supervisor to another qualified supervisor during the course of
      entry operations and ensure the new supervisor signs or initials the entry permit when
      transfer is complete. If space on the permit is not adequate, maintain a list of workers as a
      separate document and attach it to the entry permit form. Ensure the entry permit is
      maintained at the site where the entry is planned. Note: The entry permit shall be posted
      at entry portal of the permit-required confined space.
      23.2.8.15. Provide an attendant for each permit entry as required by this instruction. The
      entry supervisor can authorize an attendant to cover more than one permit entry, provided
      the duties described in paragraph 23.2.9 are effectively performed for each permit space
      monitored and the attendant is within view of all spaces.
      23.2.8.16. Ensure appropriate vehicle and pedestrian guards, barriers or other means to
      protect the entry party and attendants from traffic hazards and to protect non-entering
      personnel from confined space hazards are provided.
      23.2.8.17. With assistance from Ground Safety, BE or FES Flight, as appropriate,
      determine and evaluate the source (e.g., removal of residue from the space, repair of
      leaking valve or pipe in the space, etc.) of any suspected atmospheric condition found at
      the time of entry. Make appropriate provisions in case the severity of this hazard could
      increase while workers are in the space.
      23.2.8.18. Revoke the entry permit, terminate the entry and secure the site when
      becoming aware of a prohibited or unexpected condition. Ensure a new entry permit is
      processed through the CSPT prior to reentry.
      23.2.8.19. Ensure workers entering a permit-required confined space are provided a
      harness and lifeline that does not hinder extracting the person from the space. They shall
      also ensure the lifeline is securely attached to the harness and adequate points outside the
      confined space are available and used to secure the other end of the lifeline. When use of
      a lifeline would present additional hazards, it shall not be used.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        337



     23.2.8.20. Ensure workers are aware that work on energized electrical equipment is
     prohibited unless approved by the installation CE IAW AFI 32-1064.
  23.2.9. Confined Space Attendants will:
     23.2.9.1. Maintain an accurate accounting of all entrants (name and number) in the
     permit-required space.
     23.2.9.2. Remain outside the permit space and not attempt rescue involving entry until
     the rescue team has been notified and assistance has arrived. Make rescue efforts by
     means of the lifeline until assistance arrives.
     23.2.9.3. Maintain continuous communication with all authorized entrants within the
     permit-required space by voice, radio, visual observation or other equally effective
     means. Note: If it is not possible for one attendant to maintain communications with
     each entrant because of the entrant‘s workstation in the space, the supervisor will make
     other arrangements to ensure the attendant is continuously aware of the location and
     condition of any entrant who is out of direct communication range.
     23.2.9.4. Have authority to order entrants to exit the confined space at the first indication
     of a non-permitted condition, an unexpected hazard, indication of a toxic reaction (e.g.,
     unusual conduct by the entrants) or if a situation outside the space could pose a hazard to
     the entrants.
     23.2.9.5. Know the procedure and have the means to summon immediate emergency
     assistance, if required.
     23.2.9.6. Remain at the attendant‘s post and not leave for any reason (except self-
     preservation) unless replaced by an equally qualified individual. Order the entrants to exit
     the space if the attendant must leave and there is no replacement.
     23.2.9.7. Keep unauthorized persons from entering the permit-required space.
  23.2.10. Confined Space Entrants will:
     23.2.10.1. Be provided guidance and direction on all procedures, safeguards and
     emergency egress and/or rescue procedures associated with the entry.
     23.2.10.2. Follow all safe work procedures required by supervisory personnel and
     installation Ground Safety office, BE and FES Flight.
     23.2.10.3. Notify the entry supervisor when hazards exist that have not been previously
     identified and eliminated or reduced to an acceptable entry condition.
     23.2.10.4. Notify the entry supervisor if they are ill or on medication of any type.
  23.2.11. Shop Supervisor will:
     23.2.11.1. Annually assess the section‘s or unit‘s known confined space workplace(s) to
     determine if hazards are present, or are likely to be present, which necessitate use of PPE.
     23.2.11.2. Include specific confined spaces requirements and safety training in the Job
     Safety Lesson Plan and document training IAW AFI 91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap
     Prevention Program.
 338                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       23.2.11.3. Ensure personnel are trained and certified in use, calibration (user) and care of
       atmospheric testing and monitoring equipment. Maintain a list of personnel trained and
       qualified to conduct continuous atmospheric testing of confined spaces. Refer to
       paragraph 23.3.8 for additional guidance.
23.3. General Requirements.
   23.3.1. Confined Space Program Responsibility. The installation Ground Safety office is
   responsible for coordinating the installation confined space program. Each organization that
   requires entry into confined spaces under their control is primarily responsible for its related
   portions of the confined space entry program. This responsibility is accomplished in close
   coordination with the CSPT. Refer to paragraph 23.3.10 for additional guidance.
   23.3.2. Identification of Confined Spaces. The functional manager or commander, in
   coordination with the CSPT, shall identify, evaluate, test and classify each confined space
   within the organization. If permit-required confined spaces are identified that workers and
   other personnel may enter, the functional manager or commander shall ensure a written
   confined space program consistent with requirements of this standard is implemented. Refer
   to Figure 23.1, Permit-Required Confined Space Decision Flow Chart, for assistance in
   classifying confined spaces.
       23.3.2.1. Entry into a confined space means the action by which a worker passes through
       an opening into a confined space. Entry occurs when any part of the entrant‘s body
       breaks the plane of an opening in the space. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.146., Permit Required
       Confined Spaces, for additional guidance.
       23.3.2.2. Confined space means a space that meets all conditions in paragraphs
       23.3.2.2.1 through 23.3.2.2.3 below:
          23.3.2.2.1. Is large enough and so configured that a worker can bodily enter and
          perform assigned work.
          23.3.2.2.2. Has limited or restricted means for entry or exit (for example: tanks,
          vessels, storage bins, hoppers, aircraft belly/lower lobe, vaults and pits are spaces that
          may have limited means of entry).
          23.3.2.2.3. Is not designed for continuous worker occupancy.
   23.3.3. Initial Testing and Evaluation of Confined Space Conditions. Functional managers
   and entry supervisors, in coordination with the CSPT, must test and evaluate prior to
   classifying a confined or enclosed space. Note: Obvious hazardous spaces, i.e., sanitary
   sewer manholes, could automatically be classified as permit required without the need for
   initial testing. Initial testing for classification of confined spaces shall be accomplished by a
   technically qualified individual. Classification documentation shall be maintained, as a
   minimum, by the shop supervisor. If the initial testing and evaluation documentation is lost, a
   retest shall be accomplished. Such evaluations will include, but not necessarily be limited to,
   the following considerations:
       23.3.3.1. The contents or previous contents of the space that may result in the presence
       of flammables, toxic materials or oxygen-deficient or oxygen-enriched atmospheres.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         339



     23.3.3.2. The location and configuration of the space, including restricted access,
     obstructions, remoteness, etc., which may inhibit or interfere with movement (ability of
     entrants to self-rescue), ventilation, rescue efforts or firefighting efforts.
     23.3.3.3. Potential hazards from the external environment, such as proximity of liquid
     oxygen (LOX) storage operations; petroleum, oil and lubricants (POL) storage areas;
     sewer and waste water treatment processes; and underground disposal sites, which could
     affect the atmosphere or other conditions within the confined space.
     23.3.3.4. The types of operations conducted within the space, particularly those that
     produce toxic materials, flammables, oxygen depletion or enrichment or ignition sources.
     23.3.3.5. Fixtures, devices or equipment within the space that may create or contribute to
     hazardous conditions including piping systems, conduits, ducts, machinery, pressurized
     lines, etc.
     23.3.3.6. The presence of other hazards such as slippery surfaces, deteriorated or
     unstable ladders, irritant or caustic materials, etc., that may create a serious safety hazard
     in a confined space environment. Pay attention to the condition of permanently-installed
     ladders, such as those with metal rungs embedded into concrete walls of manholes or
     other structures.
     23.3.3.7. The boundary spaces and their contents to ensure fire or explosion is not caused
     by the operation being conducted.
     23.3.3.8. Initial testing shall be performed from outside the space. Testing of the space
     may be performed by drop tests or insertion of sample probes and hoses into the space.
     Testing shall be performed in the following sequence:
        23.3.3.8.1. Oxygen Content. Combustible gases are tested after tests for oxygen
        content because the threat of fire or explosion is more immediate and more life
        threatening, in most cases, than exposure to toxic gases or vapors.
        23.3.3.8.2. Flammable Hazard. Many combustible gas indicators and/or
        explosimeters (explosion meters) require oxygen for proper operation (generally 10-
        to 30-percent oxygen by volume). Corrections for known flammable components, if
        different from the calibration gas, shall be made IAW the manufacturer‘s instructions.
        For the detection of JP-8 and other kerosene-based fuels, a photo-ionization detector
        (PID) shall be used.
        23.3.3.8.3. Toxic Materials. For the determination of initial confined space
        classification, chemical substances known or expected to be present shall be
        measured and evaluated for their potential to produce a hazardous atmosphere (as
        defined in Attachment 1, Terms.). Note 1: If a chemical substance does not have an
        occupational and environmental exposure limit (OEEL), other sources of information,
        such as MSDS, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
        documents consensus standards, Air Force documents, etc, may be used to establish
        an acceptable atmospheric concentration and any other atmospheric condition that is
        immediately dangerous. Note 2: Test results may vary from inside the space to the
        entry area of the confined space. To effectively determine the overall
340                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         status/classification of the space, consideration must be given to taking measurements
         to the fullest extent into the confined space without entering the space. Note 3:
         Testing Stratified Atmospheres. When monitoring for entries involving a descent into
         atmospheres that may be stratified, the atmospheric envelope should be tested a
         distance of approximately 4 feet (1.22 meters) in the direction of travel and to each
         side. If a sampling probe is used, the entrant‘s rate of progress should be slowed to
         accommodate the sampling speed and detector response.
  23.3.4. Classification of Confined Spaces. Confined spaces are classified based on
  measurements of oxygen content, flammability and toxicity by testing. Refer to Table 23.1
  which is based upon existing or potential confined space hazards. Confined spaces are also
  classified relative to material contained in the space that could cause engulfment or are
  configured in a manner that could result in entrapment and/or asphyxiation. All personnel
  will assume confined spaces are permit-required until proven otherwise by means of testing,
  evaluation and/or inspection. A trained and qualified worker will conduct testing prior to any
  entry into permit-required confined spaces.
      23.3.4.1. Permit-required confined spaces may contain hazards that are immediately
      dangerous to life or health (IDLH) or have a potential for or contain a hazardous
      atmosphere as defined in Attachment 1, Terms.
      23.3.4.2. A non-permit confined space contains no hazardous atmosphere or potentially
      serious safety hazard, and entrants will not perform any work that could cause a
      hazardous atmosphere. The space does not have a potential for engulfment, is not
      configured in a way that would cause entrapment or asphyxiation, or does not contain any
      other serious safety hazard. Permits, signs and attendants are not required. Note: The use
      of special protective equipment and modified work procedures are not required by this
      standard, but may be required by other Air Force directives.
      23.3.4.3. If permit-required confined spaces are identified and workers or other
      personnel have a need to enter, the commander or functional manager will ensure a
      written confined space program is developed and implemented consistent with the
      requirements of paragraph 23.3.10. If the commander or functional manager determines
      that workers or other personnel will not enter permit-required confined spaces under his
      or her control, and they have been prohibited from entering, a written program is not
      required. In this case, the commander or functional manager must still ensure the
      requirements of paragraphs 23.3.2, 23.3.3, 23.3.5 and 23.8 are met.
  23.3.5. Posting Signs. Where confined spaces are designated as permit-required and
  workers and other personnel could inadvertently enter, the supervisor will ensure personnel
  are informed of the existence, location and the danger of the permit space by posting danger
  signs. A sign stating, DANGER — PERMIT-REQUIRED CONFINED SPACE, DO NOT
  ENTER or a commercial equivalent that meets specifications and design established in
  Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags, is appropriate. Confined spaces where
  personnel cannot inadvertently enter, such as those protected by heavy manhole covers, locks
  or that require tools to open, do not need to be posted.
  23.3.6. Approved Equipment. Before purchasing equipment to support the confined space
  entry program, supervisors will coordinate with the appropriate member of the CSPT. The
  supervisor will ensure testing and monitoring equipment used in confined spaces is approved
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           341



  for use in Class I, Division 1 and the appropriate group atmosphere, as defined in NFPA 70,
  National Electrical Code, Article 500, Hazardous (Classified) Locations. Only direct reading
  equipment with current calibration shall be used. The supervisor will also ensure equipment
  meets required standards as determined by an appropriate Nationally Recognized Testing
  Laboratory (NRTL) as listed in the OSHA NRTL Program—Underwriters Laboratories
  (UL), Factory Mutual Research Corporation (FMRC), etc. Group classifications are provided
  in NFPA 497, Recommended Practice for the Classification of Flammable Liquids, Gases, or
  Vapors and of Hazardous (Classified) Locations for Electrical Installations in Chemical
  Process Areas. Guidance is also provided in National Materials Advisory Board (NMAB)
  353-5, Classification of Gases, Liquids, and Volatile Solids Relative to Explosion-Proof
  Electrical Equipment.
  23.3.7. Testing of Confined Spaces. Verification testing shall be accomplished prior to entry
  into permit-required confined spaces. A trained and qualified individual will conduct testing
  prior to any entry into permit-required confined spaces. If a hazardous atmosphere is
  identified during pre-entry testing, use forced ventilation to try to clear the hazard for a
  period of not less than 15 minutes before testing again. If the hazardous atmosphere remains,
  repeat the process. If the hazard remains, use engineering controls to eliminate the hazard or
  make a determination about the need for entry under hazardous conditions. Note:
  Continuous forced ventilation is recommended when practical and when it will not interfere
  with work practices.
  23.3.8. Calibration of Monitoring Equipment. Monitoring equipment used to evaluate
  confined spaces shall be calibrated by the Testing, Measurement, Diagnostic and Evaluation
  (TMDE) Lab at an interval established by manufacturer‘s instructions or technical orders.
  Some monitoring equipment, e.g., colorimetric tubes, does not require calibration. Equipment
  that comes with manufacturer-approved calibration devices and does not require TMDE
  calibration is also acceptable. Monitoring equipment that requires calibration, but cannot be
  calibrated by TMDE, shall be sent to the manufacturer for calibration. The user will field
  check and span-gas test equipment IAW the manufacturer‘s instructions immediately before
  testing the confined space. Workers will not use equipment that cannot be calibrated or
  which fails the field check or span-gas test, until it is repaired and the calibration and/or field
  check is successfully accomplished.
  23.3.9. Atmospheric Monitoring. Many operations may generate hazardous conditions and
  may require atmospheric monitoring as the work progresses to ensure safe conditions are
  maintained. The frequency and types of testing are dependent upon prevailing conditions and
  the nature of the operations. No single rule can be established for all operations and
  conditions. The entry supervisor, with assistance from the CSPT, shall establish the
  frequency and type of tests for atmospheric monitoring and shall enter these requirements on
  the MEP and the entry permit. If isolation of a permit space is not possible because the space
  is large or is part of a continuous system (e.g., a sewer), pre-entry testing must be performed
  to the extent feasible and entry conditions must be continuously monitored in areas where
  authorized entrants are working. Additionally, continuous monitoring of oxygen levels,
  flammable vapor levels and toxicity levels shall be accomplished for all permit-required
  confined space operations. The entry supervisor, with appropriate assistance as stated above,
342                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  shall carefully evaluate the following types of operations for continuous atmospheric
  monitoring:
      23.3.9.1. Work that may generate hazardous concentrations of toxic materials.
      (Examples: welding, cutting, brazing, soldering, etc.)
      23.3.9.2. Application of preservatives, paints, epoxies, solvents, etc., which may involve
      hazardous concentrations of toxic or flammable vapors.
      23.3.9.3. Cleaning operations, sludge removal, etc., which may produce or cause release
      of hazardous concentrations of toxic or flammable vapors.
      23.3.9.4. Any other operations that may produce or release toxic, flammable or
      asphyxiating atmospheres or material into the space.
  23.3.10. Written Permit-Required Space Program. Commanders or functional managers in
  organizations with confined spaces under their control that have been identified, evaluated
  and classified as permit-required will develop a written program. This document will include:
      23.3.10.1. General operating and entry procedures applicable to all confined spaces
      within the organization, which will include the following elements:
         23.3.10.1.1. Measures in place to prevent unauthorized entry (signs, method of
         training, etc.).
         23.3.10.1.2. Methods used to identify and evaluate the hazards of permit spaces
         before personnel enter them (site visits, review of historical data, etc.). The entry
         permit shall list specific hazards and controls.
         23.3.10.1.3. The requirements and procedures for safe permit space entry operations,
         including, but not limited to, specifying acceptable entry conditions; isolating the
         permit space; purging, inerting, flushing or ventilating the permit space as necessary
         to eliminate or control atmospheric hazards; providing pedestrian, vehicle or other
         barriers as necessary to protect entrants from external hazards; and verifying that
         conditions in the permit space are acceptable for entry throughout the duration of an
         authorized entry.
         23.3.10.1.4. Required equipment, to include testing and monitoring, ventilating,
         communications, PPE, lighting, barriers or shields, egress ladders, rescue and
         emergency equipment, and any other equipment necessary for safe entry and rescue
         from permit spaces.
         23.3.10.1.5. Procedures established to evaluate acceptable entry conditions through
         pre-entry and periodic testing and, if required, continuous monitoring.
         23.3.10.1.6. Identify the persons by name, duty title and duty section who will have
         active roles as entrants, attendants, entry supervisors, organizational rescue team
         members and persons who test or monitor the atmosphere in a permit space.
         23.3.10.1.7. Procedures for summoning rescue and emergency services, for rescuing
         entrants from permit spaces, for providing necessary emergency services to rescued
         employees and for preventing unauthorized personnel from attempting a rescue.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        343



           23.3.10.1.8. Procedures for the preparation, issuance, use and cancellation of entry
           permits for permit required spaces.
           23.3.10.1.9. Procedures to coordinate entry operations when personnel assigned to
           different organizations or Air Force and contractor personnel are working
           simultaneously as authorized entrants in a permit space.
           23.3.10.1.10. Procedures necessary for concluding the entry after entry operations
           have been completed, such as securing the permit space and canceling the permit.
           23.3.10.1.11. Procedures to review entry operations when there is reason to believe
           that the measures taken under the permit space program may not protect personnel
           and revise the program to correct deficiencies found to exist before subsequent entries
           are authorized. Examples of circumstances requiring review of the permit space
           program are any unauthorized entry of a permit space, detection of a permit space
           hazard not covered by the permit, detection of a condition prohibited by the permit,
           the occurrence of an injury or near-miss during entry, a change in use or
           configuration of a permit space and worker complaints about program effectiveness.
           23.3.10.1.12. Method to review the permit space program, using the completed and
           canceled permits, and to revise the program as necessary to ensure personnel are
           protected from permit space hazards.
       23.3.10.2. If Air Force personnel will not enter the permit spaces, functional managers
       must still meet requirements of paragraphs 23.3.2, 23.3.3, 23.3.5 and 23.8.
   23.3.11. Alternate entry procedures are not allowed in Air Force controlled facilities or
   operations.
   23.3.12. Entry into telecommunications only controlled spaces are governed by Chapter 30,
   Communication Cable, Antenna and Communication Systems. However, the requirements of
   this chapter (paragraphs 23.3 – 23.7) also applies to telecommunications confined spaces.
23.4. Confined Spaces Classification—Atmospheric Conditions (Reference Table 23.1
below). The presence of one or more of the conditions identified under Hazardous Atmosphere
(second column below) constitutes a hazardous atmosphere, which, by itself, requires the
confined space to be classified as permit-required. When all the conditions under Non-Hazardous
Atmosphere (third column below) are met, the confined space does not contain a hazardous
atmosphere and may be classified as a non-permit space as long as there is no condition in the
space that could cause engulfment, a configuration that could result in entrapment or
asphyxiation, or other serious safety hazard (reference permit-required confined space definition,
Attachment 1, Terms). Some test equipment, i.e., photo ionization detectors (PIDs), provide
readings in parts per million (ppm), not as a percent of LEL. Personnel using such equipment
shall be able to convert test data from ppm to percent of its LEL, and back, as required.
 344                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012




Table 23.1. Confined Spaces Classification—Atmospheric Conditions.
                 Confined Spaces Classification—Atmospheric Conditions
CONDITION HAZARDOUS                                         NON-HAZARDOUS
                   ATMOSPHERE                               ATMOSPHERE
Flammability 1. Flammable gas, vapor or mist in 1. Flammable gas, vapor or mist
                  excess of 10 percent of its lower less than or equal to 10 percent of
                  explosive limit (LEL), or                 its LEL, or
                   2. Airborne combustible dust at a 2. Airborne combustible dust at a
                   concentration that meets or exceeds concentration less than its LEL.
                   its LEL. (See Note 1)
Oxygen             Atmospheric oxygen concentration Atmospheric oxygen concentration
                   less than 19.5 percent (148 mm Hg) range from the minimum of 19.5
                   or greater than 23.5 percent (greater percent and the maximum of 23.5
                   than 179 mm Hg). (See Note 2)            percent (148 –179 mm Hg).
Toxicity           An atmospheric concentration of any An atmospheric concentration of
                   chemical substance which is capable any chemical substance which is
                   of causing death, incapacitation, not capable of causing death,
                   impairment of ability to self-rescue, incapacitation, injury, impairment
                   injury or acute illness due to its of ability to self rescue or acute
                   health effects or which could result in illness due to its health effects.
                   an exposure or dose in excess of its
                   occupational and environmental
                   exposure limit (OEEL). (See Note 3)
Other              Any atmospheric condition that is No atmospheric IDLH condition
Condition          immediately dangerous to life or present.
                   health (IDLH) or local conditions that
                   could be potentially hazardous or life
                   threatening. (See Note 4)
Note 1: This concentration may be approximated as a condition in which the dust obscures
vision at a distance of five (5) feet or less.
Note 2: Based upon a total atmospheric pressure of 760mm Hg (sea level)
Note 3: Exposure at or above levels determined to be safe solely to prevent long-term adverse
health effects is not considered a hazardous atmosphere on that basis alone and in itself would
not constitute a permit-required confined space classification. However, other OSH standards,
TOs, etc. may apply for exposure to chemical substances at levels greater than the OEEL.
Note 4: Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health – as referenced in National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances,
Manufacturing Chemists data sheets or other recognized authorities. (Reference IDLH definition
in Attachment 1, Terms). Local conditions could present potentially hazardous or life
threatening situations such as extreme temperatures, noise, animals (rat droppings, potentially
dangerous insects, wild animals, etc.). The installation CSPT will notify units of potentially
hazardous or life threatening conditions in the local area.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        345



23.5. Specific Requirements.
   23.5.1. Entry Into Confined Spaces. Entry supervisors will ensure workers enter a permit-
   required confined space only after an AF Form 1024, Confined Spaces Entry Permit, or an
   approved entry permit which contains the minimum requirements of the AF permit has been
   obtained. The permit is an authorization and approval in writing that specifies the location
   and type of work to be accomplished. It certifies an evaluation of all existing hazards and the
   necessary protective measures have been taken to ensure the safety and health of each
   worker. Refer to Figure 23.2 and paragraph 23.10 for additional information for AF Form
   1024.
      23.5.1.1. Rescue procedures and equipment are critical. Entrants shall be provided
      guidance and direction on confined space entry and rescue requirements, and the entry
      supervisor will sign the entry permit as the person responsible for the entry.
      23.5.1.2. Each completed entry permit, including those canceled or revoked, shall be
      retained for one year by the organization responsible for the entry and be available for
      review. Any problems encountered during an entry operation shall be noted on the permit
      so necessary revisions can be made to the confined space program.
      23.5.1.3. Entries into non-permit required confined spaces are allowed without
      attendants and entry permits. Even though the confined space is classified as a non-permit
      confined space, the space may contain other physical hazards, such as slippery surfaces
      or deteriorated pipe ladders, which may make self-rescue difficult for the entrant. In such
      cases, it may be appropriate for entrants to use a body harness to facilitate rescue
      operations, use a buddy system or use other special procedures developed to protect
      workers inside the space. Refer to Note in paragraph 23.5.6.1.
   23.5.2. Testing and Classification of Confined Spaces. Testing and classification of confined
   spaces shall be done by a qualified person trained and certified IAW requirements in
   paragraphs 23.3.3, 23.3.4, and 23.3.7. Initial testing shall be performed from outside the
   space. Testing into the interior of the space may be performed by drop tests or insertion of
   sample probes and hoses into the space. Testing shall be performed in the sequence outlined
   in paragraph 23.3.3.8.
   23.5.3. Entry Into Known Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health (IDLH) Conditions
   Permit-Required Confined Spaces. Entry supervisors will not permit entry into and work in
   known IDLH spaces under normal operations. Continuous monitoring is required in a known
   IDLH space. Entry supervisors will authorize entry only when the following conditions are
   met:
      23.5.3.1. Efforts to reduce the hazard within the confined space by isolation, ventilation
      or other techniques result in a lower classification of the confined space. If efforts to
      reduce the hazard to a lower classification are unsuccessful, entry into known IDLH
      spaces is authorized only in cases of extreme emergencies such as rescue efforts,
      emergency repairs, etc. The organizational rescue team shall be available at the scene for
      permit-required confined space entry under IDLH conditions.
      23.5.3.2. The permit for entry into a known IDLH confined space is approved by the
      CSPT prior to space entry.
346                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      23.5.3.3. The permit authorizes entry into a specific confined space for a specific
      purpose, by specific work crews, and for a work period, which normally will not exceed a
      single shift. If multiple shifts are necessary, either a new entry permit shall be completed
      or the CSPT may approve a continuation of the initial permit with a new entry supervisor
      and crewmembers. Rescue team entry is exempt from this requirement.
      23.5.3.4. Personnel entering confined spaces with known or suspected IDLH conditions
      will wear a positive pressure SCBA or a supplied-air respirator with escape SCBA.
      Additionally, personnel shall be equipped with a harness suitable for extraction of the
      person, which does not hinder extraction, a lifeline securely attached to the harness and
      other necessary PPE suitable for the conditions and exposures. Note: When use of a
      lifeline would present additional hazards, other alternatives must be considered. Refer to
      AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, for additional respiratory
      guidance.
      23.5.3.5. Emergency rescue personnel, equipped with the above-listed equipment and
      any additional equipment necessary for a rescue, are stationed immediately outside the
      entry to the confined or enclosed space.
      23.5.3.6. Communications by sight or voice or both are established and maintained
      between the person entering the space and attendant personnel outside the space.
      23.5.3.7. Only explosion-proof or intrinsically safe equipment is used where flammable
      or explosive atmospheres are present. Refer to NFPA 70, Article 504, Intrinsically Safe
      Systems, and Article 501, Class I Locations, for additional guidance.
      23.5.3.8. A qualified BE or Ground Safety representative, based on the nature of the
      IDLH condition, shall be present during all known IDLH confined space entry and work
      periods and shall serve as safety consultant to the person in charge of entry.
      23.5.3.9. A qualified on-site rescue team shall be present during all known IDLH space
      entries, where the atmosphere inside the space contains flammable or explosive
      contaminants or is oxygen-enriched.
  23.5.4. Entry Into Permit-Required Confined Spaces. Permit-required confined spaces
  contain atmospheres or conditions that are, or may reasonably be expected to become,
  hazardous but are not IDLH. Refer to Table 23.1 Flammables, toxic materials or deviations
  of oxygen levels within a permit-required space may be due to the materials and conditions
  within the space or result from operations in the space. Refer to paragraph 23.3.9 for
  additional guidance on atmospheric monitoring.
      23.5.4.1. An entry permit must be approved by installation Ground Safety office, BE and
      FES Flight prior to entry, if not already identified on the MEP.
      23.5.4.2. Permits, issued by an entry supervisor under a MEP, will permit entry into a
      specific confined space, for a specific purpose, by a specific work crew, for a period not
      to exceed a single shift or as determined jointly by the CSPT. Rescue team entry is
      exempt from this requirement.
      23.5.4.3. Prior to entry into a contaminated space, the entry supervisor will identify the
      cause or source of the contamination and remove it to the maximum degree possible by
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         347



     cleaning, ventilating or other such treatments. If the situation is not time critical, notify
     the installation CSPT immediately. Otherwise, notify the CSPT as soon as time permits.
     23.5.4.4. Where operations conducted within the space introduce, or have the potential to
     introduce, additional hazards within the space, the entry supervisor will ensure these
     hazardous conditions and operations are covered by the permit and take action consistent
     with the nature of the operations to control the hazards and maintain safe conditions
     within the space. Refer to paragraph 23.3.9 for added guidance on atmospheric
     monitoring.
        23.5.4.4.1. When an airborne exposure may exceed an allowable standard or toxic
        materials are present or may be introduced into the space, the entry supervisor will
        contact BE staff to determine necessity for respiratory protection equipment. The BE
        staff will provide assistance in selecting the appropriate NIOSH-approved equipment
        and any other PPE necessary to protect workers. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-137
        for additional guidance. Note: While the primary concern is the inhalation hazard,
        additional PPE may be required to protect against skin contact and absorption.
        23.5.4.4.2. Entry supervisors will ensure only explosion-proof or intrinsically safe
        equipment is used where flammable or explosive atmospheres are present. Refer to
        NFPA 70, Articles 501, 504, and 513 for additional guidance.
     23.5.4.5. Entry supervisors will ensure personnel entering a permit-required confined
     space are suited with a harness and lifeline that will not hinder extraction of the person
     from the space. They will also ensure the lifeline is securely attached to the harness and
     adequate attachment points outside the confined space are available and used. Note:
     When the space is so configured that use of a lifeline would present additional hazards,
     they shall not be used. However, continuous communication between the entry supervisor
     and all entrants within the confined space shall be maintained, i.e., via voice, radio, visual
     observation or other equally effective means. The entry supervisor is responsible for
     making the final decision about non-use of the lifeline. Contact the CSPT for additional
     guidance.
     23.5.4.6. The entry supervisor will identify and notify an emergency rescue team, either
     organizational or the installation FES Flight, when an entry is planned. Note: Entry shall
     not be made until the emergency rescue team is notified and their availability has been
     verified. The entry will be immediately terminated and entry permit cancelled when the
     emergency rescue team, for any reason, becomes unavailable.
     23.5.4.7. The entry supervisor will ensure an attendant is provided for all permit-required
     confined space entry operations. The attendant will remain outside the space and will
     establish and maintain communications with the entrants. The attendant will know the
     procedures and have the capability and means to contact the rescue team or summon
     emergency assistance if the rescue team is not stationed immediately outside the confined
     space.
     23.5.4.8. When initial testing indicates ventilation is required to remove contaminants
     and/or provide adequate oxygen levels, the entry supervisor will ensure ventilation is
     provided during entry and occupancy of the space.
348                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      23.5.4.9. When operations conducted inside the confined space could cause an IDLH
      atmosphere without industrial ventilation, the entry supervisor will ensure ventilation
      (general dilution or local exhaust) is used to maintain the atmosphere within the limits
      specified on the entry permit.
      23.5.4.10. For routine recurring tasks in permit-required confined spaces, such as sewers,
      lateral fuel pits, dikes, communication vaults, etc., where the spaces may be entered on a
      regular basis, a MEP will be developed and approved by the installation Ground Safety
      office, FES Flight and BE. All MEPs shall be reviewed by the above representatives and
      the organizational representatives at least annually, to ensure conditions have not
      changed. The entry supervisor will prepare an entry permit using the MEP as a guide.
      The entry supervisor will authorize entry into the confined space by signature on the
      entry permit and will ensure the following conditions are met:
         23.5.4.10.1. There is no known potential for an IDLH atmosphere or an engulfment
         hazard.
         23.5.4.10.2. Entrants are trained in routine recurring operations practices and
         procedures required for such entries.
         23.5.4.10.3. Work operations are governed by TO, OI or similar directives, e.g., AFI
         32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, and UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety O&M.
         23.5.4.10.4. The space is tested for atmospheric hazards and the results are properly
         recorded on the entry permit.
         23.5.4.10.5. The permit is revoked if testing required by this section shows
         conditions in the space are more hazardous than contemplated under the permit. The
         entry supervisor will stop operations and ensure a new permit is issued. Retain the
         revoked permit for one year.
         23.5.4.10.6. The permit is revoked when any conditions of the permit are not
         followed or enforced.
      23.5.4.11. The entry supervisor may request the CSPT perform an evaluation to
      reclassify a permit-required confined space to a non-permit confined space at the time of
      a specific entry provided all hazards justifying the permit-required confined space
      classification have been totally eliminated. Control of a hazardous atmosphere, i.e.,
      through forced ventilation, is not the same as its elimination. For example, a chemical
      tank that at one time contained a hazardous atmosphere, prior to draining it of its
      contents, purging any residual chemical content with water and venting the space after
      purging is complete, would be eligible for reclassification as long as the hazardous
      atmosphere remains totally eliminated. Entry into confined spaces, where a non-
      hazardous atmosphere is maintained through continuous forced ventilation, is a permit-
      required entry. The intent for reclassifying a permit-required confined space applies
      primarily to those spaces containing physical hazards, e.g., hazardous energy sources or
      engulfment hazards. Detailed provisions for reclassifying a space shall be addressed in
      the MEP, if one is in use. Such reclassification would allow entry without a permit,
      without personnel being suited with a harness and/or lifeline and without an attendant,
      provided:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     349



         23.5.4.11.1. Testing is accomplished prior to entry with the results showing the space
         is free of all hazards. Note: If entry is required to eliminate the hazards or perform
         verification testing in the permit space, the entry must be made with an entry permit
         IAW this standard. Once the hazards have been eliminated, the space may be
         reclassified as non-permit as long as the hazards remain eliminated. Elimination is
         achieved by completely protecting the space against the release of hazardous energy
         or material into the space.
         23.5.4.11.2. That actual or potential atmospheric hazards are eliminated, and
         continuous monitoring is used to ensure the atmosphere remains free of hazards. That
         all hazards within the space are eliminated without entering the space at the time of
         testing, and any non-atmospheric hazards remain eliminated.
         23.5.4.11.3. That during routine work, the entrant does not take tools or introduce
         material into the space that could themselves cause a hazard.
         23.5.4.11.4. The entrant does not perform any work that would cause a hazardous
         condition.
         23.5.4.11.5. The entry permit is revoked whenever any test, monitoring instrument or
         observation shows conditions are developing in the confined space more hazardous
         than allowed under the permit. When this occurs, the entry supervisor will remove
         entrants, secure the area and prevent entry until an approved entry permit is issued.
         23.5.4.11.6. The entry supervisor documents the basis for the reclassification on a
         separate sheet, attaches it to the entry permit and signs or initials next to the
         statement. Refer to Figure 23.2. Note: Routine or repetitive entries for daily
         inspections of lateral fuel pits are examples of work tasks that may qualify for
         reclassification.
  23.5.5. AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit. Whenever workers perform hot riveting,
  welding, cutting or burning, or heating operations within a confined space, they will obtain
  an AF Form 592 from the installation FES Flight. Refer to Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting
  and Brazing, Figure 27.1 and Table 27.2 for additional information. If hazards may be
  introduced into the confined space by the ―hot work,‖ BE shall be contacted to evaluate the
  potential hazards and recommend ventilation procedures. Also, workers will:
     23.5.5.1. Inspect, test, operate and maintain welding and cutting equipment such as
     hoses, connections, torches, etc., IAW provisions of Chapter 27, applicable TOs and
     manufacturers‘ instructions.
     23.5.5.2. Not take compressed gas cylinders or gas manifolds used in welding and
     cutting operations into a confined space.
     23.5.5.3. Turn off gas supplies at the cylinder or manifold outside the space when
     equipment is unattended or unused for substantial periods of time, such as at breaks or
     lunch periods. At shift changes (30 minutes or more) or overnight, turn off gas supplies
     and remove torches and hoses from the space. Immediately remove open-ended hoses
     from the space when torches or other devices are removed from the hose.
 350                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       23.5.5.4. Not take electric arc units or machines into a confined space. Place such units
       outside the space.
   23.5.6. Entry Into Non-Permit Confined Spaces. These confined spaces are not considered
   hazardous and have no reasonable probability to become hazardous. These spaces are defined
   as confined because of design, may have limited openings for entry and exit, and may have
   limited space (lateral fuel pits under five [5] feet deep and dikes less than six [6] feet high
   around fuel storage tanks). Note: Recommend personnel entering non-permit required
   confined spaces receive the same training as personnel entering permit required spaces, or at
   a minimum, confined spaces awareness training to recognize a confined space.
       23.5.6.1. Entries into non-permit required confined spaces are allowed without
       attendants and entry permits. Note: Even though the confined space is classified as a
       non-permit confined space when using typical criteria to evaluate hazards such as
       atmospheric, engulfment or entrapment, the space may contain other physical hazards.
       Hazards such as slippery surfaces or deteriorated pipe ladders may make self-rescue
       difficult for the entrant. Also, fuel pits less than five (5) feet deep with jet fuel
       accumulation due to line leaks may present a hazard to repair crews. In cases where no
       entry permit is required, it may still be appropriate for entrants to use a body harness to
       facilitate rescue operations, for an attendant to be assigned to monitor the entry process or
       other special procedures developed to protect entrants.
       23.5.6.2. Non-permit confined spaces will be reviewed prior to each entry to determine if
       changed conditions in or around the space could have introduced a hazard that is
       immediately dangerous to life or health, thus changing the classification of the space to
       permit-required. Well-ventilated, frequently-entered non-permit confined spaces such as
       aircraft engine inlets/intakes/exhausts and avionics bays can normally rely on a visual
       review prior to each entry, unless a changed condition in or around those spaces could
       have introduced an atmospheric or other non-visual hazard, in which case, instrumented
       testing is warranted.
23.6. Emergency and Rescue Procedures.
   23.6.1. Responsibilities. The MEP or confined space entry permit will include emergency
   and rescue procedures consistent with each operation that requires entry into a permit-
   required confined space. The entry supervisor will coordinate with the installation Ground
   Safety office, BE and FES Flight when required to enter non-routine permit-required
   confined spaces not included in the MEP, and to establish emergency rescue procedures prior
   to entry. Means of rescue include: self-rescue, a centrally located rescue team (installation
   FES Flight or an installation established team) and an organizational rescue team. Aircraft
   fuel systems personnel will follow this standard and applicable technical data for
   responsibilities, qualifications, training and rescue procedure requirements for working in
   permit-required confined spaces.
       23.6.1.1. Self-Rescue. Employees are trained to exit from the confined space IAW
       requirements in paragraph 23.7.2.2.3.1.
       23.6.1.2. Centrally Located Rescue Team. The installation FES Flight provides
       emergency rescue services but will not normally provide on-site standby rescue services
       for entry into permit-required confined spaces on an Air Force installation as the FES
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      351



     Flight is not manned to support these operations. The supervisor in charge of entry shall
     ensure a standby rescue team is in place prior to beginning operations in permit-required
     spaces that are IDLH. Additionally, this supervisor will contact the installation FES
     Flight prior to entering a permit-required confined space to coordinate emergency rescue
     assistance and ensure its availability within a reasonable period of time (normally within
     5-7 minutes). The entry supervisor shall ensure these procedures are included during
     planning for permit-required confined space operations that are IDLH.
     23.6.1.3. Organizational Rescue Team. When confined space permit-required work is
     performed outside the installation or the installation FES Flight is unable to support the
     operation, the entry supervisor/authority will ensure an organizational rescue team is
     available and, if not, the confined space work shall be rescheduled. For permit-required
     confined spaces that are IDLH, the organizational rescue team will standby on the scene
     of the operation. Organizational rescue teams shall consist of trained personnel equipped
     with appropriate PPE, including respiratory protection equipment necessary for entry into
     confined spaces, and with rescue and retrieval equipment suitable for the confined spaces
     involved. Installations/organizations may contract for rescue team support. Note: Within
     aircraft maintenance, the fuel systems shop/work center usually requires an
     organizational rescue team. Fuel systems personnel will conduct rescue efforts IAW MEP
     (Emergency and Rescue Procedures) approved by installation CSPT. Refer to paragraph
     23.6.1 and TO 1-1-3, Inspection and Repair of Aircraft Integral Tanks, and Fuel Cells,
     for additional guidance.
         23.6.1.3.1. Organizational rescue teams shall meet the same training requirements as
         FES Flight rescue teams. In addition, the entry supervisor will ensure they are locally
         trained in the correct performance of rescue functions assigned to them. Training
         received in technical school may suffice. Aircraft fuel systems personnel will follow
         requirements of TO 1-1-3. Training, as a minimum, will include use of retrieval and
         rescue equipment and proper wear and use of any PPE, including airline respirators or
         Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) that may be required during actual
         rescues. Refer to paragraph 23.7.3.2 for additional guidance.
         23.6.1.3.2. During permit-required confined space entry operations, entry supervisors
         shall ensure all members of the rescue team are trained and current in
         cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). The organizational rescue team shall be
         available at the scene for permit-required confined space entry under IDLH
         conditions.
         23.6.1.3.3. The appropriate CSPT members will assist organizational rescue teams as
         required in the selection of equipment.
  23.6.2. Inspection of Safety Equipment. Prior to a confined space operation, entry
  supervisors will ensure inspection, testing, maintenance and documentation of safety and
  rescue equipment is accomplished IAW Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment, TO 00-
  25-245, Testing and Inspection Procedures for Personnel Safety and Rescue Equipment, and
  manufacturer‘s instructions.
  23.6.3. Alternate entry procedures are not allowed in Air Force controlled facilities or
  operations.
352                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


23.7. TRAINING.
  23.7.1. General Information. Each organization shall develop a structured and effective
  training program to include a hands-on portion that establishes safe work practices and
  techniques. A computer based training (CBT), titled Confined Space Series General Worker:
  Entrant, Attendant, and Supervisor Course, the OSHA Course 226, Permit-Required
  Confined Space Entry or other MAJCOM-approved CBTs are available for personnel who
  have not attended a formal training course. Each MAJCOM may develop and present training
  using methods (power point presentations, training plans, etc.) other than CBT, if approved
  by the Ground Safety office and BE. This will allow for type specific training for each
  weapons system. Personnel assigned duties as entry supervisors, attendants and entrants will
  complete general permit-required confined space program hands-on training in addition to
  AFCESA‘s CBT or OSHA Course 226, Permit-Required Confined Space Entry. Entry
  supervisors shall complete rescue training described in paragraph 23.7.3.2. All training
  associated with confined spaces shall consist of initial training and annual training thereafter.
  Exception: Training shall be conducted if an existing requirement changes and/or a new
  confined space or equipment is added. Note: Recommend personnel entering non-permit
  required confined spaces receive the same training as personnel entering permit required
  spaces, or at a minimum, confined spaces awareness training to recognize a confined space.
      23.7.1.1. The installation or unit training program shall include the specific hazards to be
      encountered. The trainer shall obtain installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and
      BE approval on all training lesson plans prior to their use and when changes are made to
      the plans. Note: The CBT listed in paragraph 23.7.1 may be included as part of the
      installation or unit training program.
      23.7.1.2. Entry supervisors shall ensure all personnel authorized confined space entry or
      assigned as attendants or rescue personnel are trained. Entry supervisors shall ensure
      workers are aware of appropriate procedures and controls for entry and that unauthorized
      entry into such spaces is forbidden. Warning: Entry supervisors shall ensure personnel
      are aware/warned that unauthorized entry can be fatal. Many confined space hazards are
      impossible to detect without specially designed equipment. Refer to paragraph 23.7.5 for
      additional guidance on documenting training.
      23.7.1.3. Each member shall be trained prior to being assigned permit-required confined
      space duties. For additional guidance refer to paragraph 23.7.2.
      23.7.1.4. Additional training is required when workers have a change in assigned duties
      or when permit-required confined space operations present a hazard for which a worker
      has not previously been trained. Additional training is also required when there have been
      deviations from established entry procedures or when a worker displays inadequacies in
      the knowledge or use of these procedures.
  23.7.2. General Confined Space Program Training Requirements.
      23.7.2.1. Confined Space Program Team. CSPT members will perform the duties and
      responsibilities outlined in paragraph 23.2.5. At least one representative from the
      installation Ground Safety office, BE and FES Flight shall receive formal permit-required
      confined space training. These individuals shall make up the installation‘s CSPT. The
      Ground Safety office, BE, FES Flight and other installation units can train as many
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     353



     personnel as they desire, but those designated as members of the CSPT must be trained.
     Completion of OSHA Permit-Required Confined Space Entry, Course 226/226A, or
     similar course taught by a recognized training organization, meets this requirement.
     23.7.2.2. Entrants. Entrants will perform the duties and responsibilities outlined in
     paragraph 23.2.10. Entry supervisors will ensure all entrants are trained in the following
     subjects:
        23.7.2.2.1. Hazard Recognition. Prior to entering a permit-required confined space
        containing a potentially hazardous environment, entrants shall be provided guidance
        and direction on the nature of the hazards, to include type, signs or symptoms, effects
        of exposure and the need to perform appropriate testing to determine if it is safe to
        enter.
        23.7.2.2.2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Entrants shall be trained and
        qualified on the proper use of all PPE and protective shields and barriers. Consult BE
        with questions or guidance on PPE.
        23.7.2.2.3. Self-Rescue. Entrants will:
            23.7.2.2.3.1. Exit from the confined space as rapidly as they can whenever an
            order to evacuate is given by the attendant, an automatic evacuation alarm is
            activated or workers recognize the warning signs of exposure to substances whose
            presence in the confined space is known or expected.
            23.7.2.2.3.2. Recognize the toxic effects or symptoms of exposure to anticipated
            hazardous materials they are using.
            23.7.2.2.3.3. Relay an alarm to their attendant and attempt self-rescue
            immediately on becoming aware of the effects discussed in paragraph
            23.7.2.2.3.1. The entrants must communicate with the attendant as necessary to
            enable the attendant to monitor their exit.
        23.7.2.2.4. Special Work Practices or Procedures. Entrants shall be provided
        guidance and directions on all modifications or alterations of normal work practices
        that are necessary for confined space work.
        23.7.2.2.5. Equipment. Entrants shall be trained in the use and care of other
        equipment, such as monitoring, ventilating, lighting, communications, rescue and
        emergency equipment and like equipment used in and around confined spaces work
        areas.
     23.7.2.3. Entry Supervisor. Entry (on-site) supervisors in charge of permit-required
     confined space operations and who authorize entry will meet entrant training
     requirements, in addition to the following:
        23.7.2.3.1. Recognize effects of exposure to hazards reasonably expected to be
        present.
        23.7.2.3.2. Perform duties and responsibilities outlined in paragraph 23.2.8.
 354                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       23.7.2.4. Attendant. Entry supervisors will ensure the attendant is trained to perform the
       duties and responsibilities in paragraph 23.2.9 and on the same requirements as entrant or
       rescue personnel if the attendant is expected to perform those functions.
   23.7.3. Rescue.
       23.7.3.1. All personnel with responsibility for rescue from confined spaces shall receive
       hands-on training initially (prior to assignment to rescue duties) and annually thereafter.
       This training will include removing simulated victims, such as dummies, mannequins or
       actual persons, from actual or representative confined space that have openings and
       portals similar to the types from which a rescue may be performed.
       23.7.3.2. Entry supervisors will ensure all rescue team members are trained in all items
       listed in paragraph 23.7.2.2 for entrants, as well as: Note: The fire chief is responsible
       for the currency of the FES Flight‘s primary and secondary rescue teams‘ members.
          23.7.3.2.1. Rescue duties and responsibilities.
          23.7.3.2.2. Use of retrieval and rescue equipment.
          23.7.3.2.3. Proper wear and use of PPE.
          23.7.3.2.4. CPR and Self-Aid/Buddy Care.
   23.7.4. Confined Space Tester and/or Monitor. The person designated to conduct tests of
   confined space atmospheric conditions must be trained in the operation, calibration and care
   of the specific testing equipment used. The person conducting the tests must be fully trained
   and certified as qualified to interpret the results. The tester shall meet the training
   requirements of an entrant if entry is required to conduct the tests.
   23.7.5. Documentation of Training. All confined space training for entry supervisors,
   entrants, attendants, testers and/or monitors and rescue team members shall be certified,
   documented and kept up-to-date. The documentation shall contain each individual‘s name
   and dates of training or retraining and either the initials or signature of the trainer and/or
   instructor. Documentation will indicate the type of training conducted, e.g., general
   awareness, formal, rescue, attendant, entrant, entry supervisor or tester/monitor. Training
   shall be documented on an AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, or an equivalent
   information technology system for safety related items such as CPR or respirator use, or on
   an authorized computerized information management system. Training records shall be
   available for review by the CSPT during annual program assessments or periodic reviews.
   23.7.6. Annual Review. The installation CSPT will review and assess units‘ training
   programs and rescue team training at least annually. The review/assessment will include
   documentation, exercises, course material and training methodologies. The CSPT will
   provide a copy of the annual assessment to the user organization. Annual review may be
   incorporated into other annual reports conducted by members of the CSPT, i.e., annual safety
   reports.
23.8. Contractor Requirements.
   23.8.1. General. When an organization arranges to have a contractor perform work that
   involves a permit-required confined space entry, the organization shall:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      355



     23.8.1.1. Notify the contractor that work will be performed in a permit-required confined
     space and ensure the information is included in the statement of work (SOW) or
     equivalent contracting tool. Note: IAW AFI 91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap
     Prevention Program, and AFFARS Clause 5352.223-9001, Health and Safety on
     Government Installations, the installation contracting officer shall ensure all required
     elements including safety and health are identified in the Performance Work Statement,
     SOW and/or other equivalent contracting tools. It is the contractor‘s sole responsibility
     for compliance with the OSHA (Public Law 91-956).
     23.8.1.2. Ensure the fire chief coordinates on the confined space entry contract and either
     approves or disapproves use of the rescue team supplied by the installation FES Flight.
     23.8.1.3. Brief the contractor on contents of the space and known hazards that make the
     space permit-required.
     23.8.1.4. Brief the contractor on precautions and procedures implemented by the
     organization to protect Air Force workers.
     23.8.1.5. Establish a procedure to ensure an after-action brief is completed with the
     contractor at the conclusion of the contract, where the contractor can provide information
     regarding hazards encountered or created in the space(s).
     23.8.1.6. Contact the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) if an unsafe act or
     procedure is performed by the contractor.
  23.8.2. Specific. Coordinate entry operations and procedures with the contractor and agree
  upon the permit space entry system to be used when both Air Force organizational and
  contractor personnel will be working in a permit-required confined space. Note: Contractor
  program must meet Air Force confined space program requirements, as a minimum, before
  Air Force personnel may enter a contractor permit-required confined space. The CSPT shall
  approve entry of Air Force personnel into contractor permit-required confined spaces.
  23.8.3. If only contractor personnel will enter installation confined spaces, a CSPT may not
  be necessary. Refer to paragraph 23.2.5.
 356                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 23.1. Permit-Required Confined Space Decision Flow Chart.




23.9. MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces (Reference Table 23.2 below). The
following figure identifies confined spaces contained within each aircraft weapons system as
defined by the MAJCOM Ground Safety office. This is not an all-inclusive list and is subject to
change based on modifications in procedures and weapons system design. The all-inclusive list
shall be maintained by each MAJCOM Ground Safety office for each installation under its
purview and by the installation CSPT. Note: This list will also be posted on the AFSEC CoP
website and maintained by each MAJCOM Ground Safety office. This table also specifies a
minimum classification level established by the MAJCOM Ground Safety office. Warning:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           357



Proper classification of a confined space depends heavily on the activity that occurs within the
space. Therefore, while confined spaces with no hazards inherent within or introduced into the
space are categorized as Non-Permit Required (NPR) in the table below, all have the potential to
contain a hazard that could change the classification to Permit-Required (PR).
(a) If activity in the space introduces or generates any hazards, the installation CSPT must be
notified to assess the classification. The installation CSPT may upgrade the classification to PR
for that activity if there is potential to create a hazard.
(b) Some confined spaces contain fuel lines that are normally intact and not designed to release
fuel into the space. In general, most of these spaces are classified as NPR in the table below on
the basis that leaks of fuel are a rare event and the entrant would be able to detect the presence of
fuel prior to entry. If there is any indication of fuel leakage (odor, visual evidence), the space
must be upgraded to PR. Entrants are strongly encouraged to sample air for fuel vapor before
entry into NPR confined spaces containing fuel lines as an additional means to verify no leakage
has occurred. Check with BE for assistance in selecting fuel vapor detection equipment.
(c) In some confined spaces, lines containing nitrogen in liquid or gaseous form pass through the
space. These lines are normally intact and not designed to intentionally release nitrogen into the
space. In general, most of these spaces are classified as NPR in the table below on the basis that
nitrogen leaks are a rare event and the entrant can verify the integrity of the nitrogen distribution
system prior to entry. Any evidence of potential nitrogen leakage, e.g., pressure drops or
maintenance history, drives an immediate upgrade of the space to PR. Additionally, due to the
odorless and colorless properties of nitrogen, entrants into NPR confined spaces where nitrogen
lines or bottles are present must continuously monitor for oxygen levels while in the space to
verify no leakage has occurred. Refer to TO 1-1-3, Inspection and Repair of Aircraft Integral
Tanks, and Fuel Cells, for additional guidance.

Table 23.2. MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces.
                   MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces
    Aircraft Permit Required (PR) or Non-Permit Required (NPR) Confined Spaces
Aircraft Type    Confined Spaces
A-10/OA-10       Fuel Cell/Tanks (PR)
B-1
                 Aft Equipment Bay (NPR)

                    Fuel Tanks (PR)

                    Overwing Fairings (NPR)
B-2                 Fuel Tanks (PR)
B-52                Fuel Tanks (PR)

                    Wine Cellar (NPR)
 358                                                            AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                   MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces
    Aircraft Permit Required (PR) or Non-Permit Required (NPR) Confined Spaces
Aircraft Type    Confined Spaces
C-5
                 Cargo Compartment Underfloor/Bilge Area (NPR)

                 Wing Dry Bays (NPR)

                 Flap Pack Compartment (NPR)

                 Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Power Transfer Unit Compartments (NPR)

                 Center Wing Box (NPR)

                 Radome Plug Access (NPR)

                 T-Tail, Vertical Stabilizer (NPR)

                 Wing Tip Box Beam (NPR)

                 AFT Hayloft (NPR)Wing Leading Edges, Butt Line 120 to Outboard
                 Pylon (NPR)

                 Wing Root Dry Bay (NPR)

                 In-Flight Refuel Manifold (RH W.S. 120 Dry Bay) (NPR)

                 Forward SPR Pod/Access (PTU Compartment) (NPR)

                 AFT Main Landing Gear Pod (left/right) (NPR)

                 Horizonal Stabilizer (Box Access) (NPR)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                           359



                   MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces
    Aircraft Permit Required (PR) or Non-Permit Required (NPR) Confined Spaces
Aircraft Type    Confined Spaces
C-17
                 Aft Main Landing Gear Pods, Left and Right (NPR)

                 Cargo Ramp Maintenance Tunnel (NPR)

                 Center Wing Dry Bay Area (PR)

                 Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Fuselage and Wing Area (NPR)

                 Horizontal Stabilizer Access (NPR)

                 Under Floor Maintenance Tunnel (NPR)

                 Uplock Assembly Area of Wheelwell (NPR)

                 Vertical Stabilizer Area (NPR)
C-20
                 Fuel Tanks (PR)
C-21
                 None listed
C-32
                 E/E Bay, Forward of NLG (NPR)

                 Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Main Entry Bay, Avionics Access Into Aircraft (NPR)

                 Space Behind Aft Cargo Auxiliary Tank (NPR)

                 Space Behind Forward Cargo Auxiliary Tank (NPR)

                 Tail Cone Access Under Horizontal Stabilizer (NPR)
C-37             Fuel tanks (PR)
C-130
                 Fuel Tanks/Cells (PR)

                 Wing Dry Bays (NPR)

                 Benson Tanks (if installed) (PR)

                 Avionics Bay (NPR)
 360                                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                   MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces
    Aircraft Permit Required (PR) or Non-Permit Required (NPR) Confined Spaces
Aircraft Type    Confined Spaces
C-135
                 Center Wing Equipment Bay (NPR)

                 Elevator Actuator Access (Hell Hole) (NPR)

                 Fuel tanks (PR)

                 Lower Nose Compartment (NPR)

                 Water Tank (NPR)
C- 40
                 Forward E/E Bay (NPR)

                 Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Tail Access Area Above Stabilizer Jackscrew (NPR)

                 Main EE Bay Access (NPR)

                 Snake Pit Area (Air Dist Bay) (NPR)
CT-43
                 Aft Tail Cone Area (NPR)

                 Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Forward E/E Bay (NPR)
E-3C
                 Aft Lower Lobe (NPR)

                 Battery Compartment (NPR)

                 Forward Lower Lobe (NPR)

                 Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Rotor Dome (NPR)
E-8C
                 Fuel Tanks (PR)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                           361



                   MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces
    Aircraft Permit Required (PR) or Non-Permit Required (NPR) Confined Spaces
Aircraft Type    Confined Spaces
F-15
(C, D and E      #1 Cell Fuselage Tank (PR)
Models)
                 #2 Cell Fuselage Tank (Feed Tank) (PR)

                 #3A Cell (Feed Tank) (PR)

                 Engine Intakes/Exhausts (NPR)
F-16
                 F-1 Fuel Cell (PR)

                 Engine Intake/Exhaust (NPR)

F-22A            F-2 Fuel Cell (PR)

                 F-1B Fuel Cell (PR)

                 F-1A Fuel Cell (PR)
HH-60
                 External Door/Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Fuel Cell (PR)
KC-10
                 Aft Accessory Compartment (NPR)

                 Aft Fuselage Compartment (NPR)

                 ARO Compartment (NPR)

                 Center Accessory Compartment (CAC) (NPR)

                 Avionics Compartments (NPR)

                 Bladder Fuel Cells (PR)

                 Engine Inlets (NPR)

                 Forward Accessory Compartment (FAC) (NPR)

                 Forward Lower Compartment (Pool Room) (NPR)

                 Integral Fuel Tanks (PR)

                 Fuselage Tank Access Compartment (PR)
 362                                                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                   MAJCOM Mandatory Aircraft Confined Spaces
    Aircraft Permit Required (PR) or Non-Permit Required (NPR) Confined Spaces
Aircraft Type    Confined Spaces
QF-4             Fuel Tanks (PR)
T-38             Fuel Cell (PR)
U-2              Aircraft Tailpipe (NPR)
UH-1N            Fuel Tanks (PR)
VC-25
                 Fuel tanks (PR)

Figure 23.2. AF Form 1024, Confined Space Entry Permit.
                                         CONFINED SPACE ENTRY PERMIT
1. IS THIS ENTRY COVERED BY MEP                      YES □               NO □

                                                  2. GENERAL INFORMATION

LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF SPACE TO BE ENTERED

PURPOSE OF ENTRY

OPERATION COVERED BY TO OR OI                                  AUTHORIZED DURATION OF PERMIT
□                                                              DATE:
                                                               TIME:        FROM           TO
                                    3. PERMIT SPACE HAZARDS (INDICATE PROBABLE HAZARDS)

   OXYGEN DEFICIENT (< 19.5%)                                        ENGULFMENT
   OXYGEN ENRICHMENT (> 23.5%)                                       MECHANICAL HAZARDS
   FLAMMABLE GASES OR VAPORS (> 10% LEL OR >                         ELECTRICAL SHOCK
   600 PPM)
   AIRBORNE COMBUSTIBLE DUST (=>LEL OR                               OTHER
   OBSCURES VISION AT DISTANCE OF 5-FEET
   (1.52M)
   MATERIAL HARMFUL TO SKIN
                              4. EQUIPMENT REQUIRED FOR ENTRY AND WORK
                          (SPECIFY SPECIFIC ITEMS REQUIRED TO INCLUDE MANUFACTURER AND PART NUMBER)

PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT

RESPIRATORY PROTECTION

ATMOSPHERIC TESTING/MONITORING

COMMUNICATION

RESCUE EQUIPMENT

OTHER

                                           5. RESCUE AND EMERGENCY SERVICE

NAME OF SERVICE                           PHONE NUMBER                                METHOD OF CONTACT




                                                        6. AUTHORIZED
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                           363



                ATTENDANTS                                                     ENTRANTS
RANK      NAME (LAST, FIRST, MI)                        RANK     NAME (LAST, FIRST, MI)



                                          7. PREPARATION FOR ENTRY

                 PREPARATION                                  VENTILATION METHODS
       NOTIFICATION OF SERVICE INTERRUPTION            MECHANICAL
       TO AFFECTED AREAS
       BLANK/BLIND LINES                               NATURAL VENTILATION
       PURGE/CLEAN                                          COMMUNICATION METHODS
       INERT                                           VISUAL
       BARRIERS                                        VOICE
       DOUBLE BLANK AND BLIND                          TUG ROPE
              ISOLATION METHODS                        RADIO
       ELECTRICAL LOCKOUT/TAGOUT                       OTHER
       MECHANICAL LOCKOUT/TAGOUT                           ADDITIONAL PERMITS (ATTACHED)
       ATMOSPHERIC                                     AF FORM 592 (HOT WORK PERMIT)
       OTHER                                           OTHER
                                      PERSONNEL AWARENESS
       PRE-ENTRY BRIEFING ON SPECIFIC HAZARDS, WORK TO BE PERFORMED, CONTROL METHODS, AND
       EMERGENCY EGRESS
       SIGNS POSTED
       PEDESTRIAN AND VEHICLE BARRIERS
       OTHER
                             8. ATMOSPHERIC TESTING AND MONITORING RECORD

TYPE HAZARD        TEST       RESULT          RESULT           RESULT      RESULT           RESULT      RESULT
                FREQUENCY      TIME            TIME             TIME        TIME             TIME        TIME
OXYGEN
FLAMMABILITY
CARBON
MONOXIDE
HYDROGEN
SULFIDE
CHLORINE
SULFUR
DIOXIDE
OTHER TOXIC
HEAT
OTHER
TESTER NAME
                                          TESTING DOCUMENTATION

MAKE/MODEL
CALIBRATION
DATE
                                   9. AUTHORIZED BY ENTRY SUPERVISORS

NAME (PRINT OR TYPE)     SIGNATURE                                                   DATE        TIME




                                               COORDINATION
SEG:                               BEE:                                    CEF:

                                            10. ENTRANT TIME LOG

NAME           TIME IN       TIME OUT         TIME IN           TIME OUT          TIME IN        TIME OUT
 364                                                                                           AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012




IS ADDITIONAL ENTRANT TIME INFORMATION ATTACHED?                    YES □    NO □

                      11. REMARKS (ENTRY SUPERVISOR WILL RECORD PERMIT CLOSING TIME.


I certify that all precautions have been taken and necessary equipment is provided for safe entry and work in this confined
space.




Work completed at: _______________________          Space normalized: _________________________________

       THIS PERMIT MUST BE AVAILABLE ON JOB SITE DURING ENTRY; GOOD ONLY FOR TIME INDICATED
MAINTAIN JOB SITE COPY ON FILE IN WORK CENTER FOR ONE YEAR

23.10. INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE AF FORM 1024. Paragraph 23.5.1,
Entry Into Confined Space, requires entry supervisors ensure workers enter a permit-required
confined space only after an AF Form 1024, Confined Spaces Entry Permit, has been obtained.
The following guidance shall be used to complete the AF Form 1024 or equivalent.
     23.10.1. Section 1-Entry Information. Mark the appropriate block indicating whether or
     not the entry permit was issued under a Master Entry Plan (MEP). If not, SEG, BE and CEF
     approval must be provided prior to space entry in Section 9.
     23.10.2. Section 2-General Information. Enter the location of the confined space and
     indicate if the space is located on or off the installation. Include a description of the space to
     be entered, along with the purpose for entry. Check the block if the operation is covered by a
     technical order (TO) or an office instruction (OI) and identify the document. Enter the date
     and duration of the permit. Note: The entry supervisor is responsible for the following:
          23.10.2.1. Section 3-Permit Space Hazards. Check hazard potential of the space. List
          hazards of the space on form; e.g., Oxygen-19 percent or Engulfment-Coal.
          23.10.2.2. Section 4-Equipment Required for Entry and Work. List equipment by
          type and add any equipment not listed on the form.
          23.10.2.3. Section 5-Rescue and Emergency Service. Identify and notify the rescue
          team. Include POC name, phone number and indicate the date and time when availability
          of the rescue service was confirmed.
          23.10.2.4. Section 6-Authorized. List the names of all attendants and entrants for this
          entry. If the entry supervisor(s) will enter the permit-required space, list them as entrants.
          Attach an additional separate sheet if needed to list additional entrants. Note: Entrants
          are not required to sign or initial next to their names.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          365



       23.10.2.5. Section 7-Preparation for Entry. Identify required preparations prior to
       entering the permit-required confined space. Refer to the governing TO or OI as
       appropriate.
       23.10.2.6. Section 8-Atmospheric Testing and Monitoring Record. The CSPT will
       determine the appropriate testing frequency, which shall be entered for each type hazard
       involved. Ensure each tester is qualified. Enter the make/model for all testing equipment
       along with its calibration date. Attach an additional sheet of paper if needed to record
       results of entry testing or monitoring of the space‘s atmosphere.
       23.10.2.7. Section 9-Authorized by Entry Supervisors. The entry supervisor must
       sign each entry permit to validate the form. Entry permits issued from an approved MEP
       do not require SEG, BE or CEF representative signatures or initials. However, these
       representatives will review and approve all non-routine entry permits not covered by an
       MEP.
       23.10.2.8. Section 10-Entrant Time Log. Enter the name of each entrant and the time
       of each individual‘s entry and exit. Check the box if additional sheets are used to track
       entrant data.
       23.10.2.9. Section 11-Remarks. To aid on-site communication, include the phone
       number, radio call sign, etc., where the FES Flight rescue (if used) can contact the entry
       supervisor should rescue services become unavailable. The entry supervisor will include
       the permit closing time, or time and circumstances if the permit was revoked because a
       prohibited condition occurred.
23.11. Confined Spaces Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in
this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements
exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local
safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual
location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   23.11.1. Has the commander and/or functional manager developed and implemented a
   written confined space program? Reference 23.2.7
   23.11.2. Does the commander and/or functional manager ensure personnel who support the
   permit-required confined space program are properly trained, equipped and qualified?
   Reference23.2.7.2)
   23.11.3. Does the commander and/or functional manager ensure required equipment is
   available and properly maintained? Reference 23.2.7.3
   23.11.4. Does the commander and/or functional manager maintain a current list of all
   confined spaces, both permit-required and non-permit, under the control of their
   organization? Reference 23.2.7.4
   23.11.5. Does the entry supervisor have a copy of the MEP? Reference 23.2.8.1
   23.11.6. Prior to the start of entry operations, does the entry supervisor ensure workers are
   properly trained and qualified in safe operating, emergency and egress procedures, and the
   use of PPE? Reference 23.2.8.5
366                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  23.11.7. Prior to allowing entry to the confined space, does the entry supervisor brief
  workers on the hazards of the operation? Reference 23.2.8.6
  23.11.8. Does the confined space attendant maintain an accurate account of all entrants by
  name and time in and out of the permit-required space? Reference 23.2.9.1
  23.11.9. Does the attendant maintain continuous communication with all authorized entrants
  within the permit-required space via the most viable means of communication? Reference
  23.2.9.3
  23.11.10. Does the attendant ensure unauthorized persons are not allowed in the permit-
  required space? Reference 23.2.9.7
  23.11.11. As appropriate, does the confined space entrant notify the entry supervisor when
  hazards existed that had not been previously identified? Reference 23.2.10.3
  23.11.12. Does the commander or functional manager identify all confined spaces within
  their organization, located both on and off the installation? Reference 23.3.2
  23.11.13. Do functional managers and entry supervisors ensure the organization‘s confined
  spaces are evaluated and tested prior to being classified? Reference 23.3.2
  23.11.14. Is initial testing of confined spaces accomplished by a technically qualified
  member of the installation CSPT prior to the space being classified? Reference 23.3.3
  23.11.15. Are danger signs posted at permit-required confined spaces, as appropriate?
  Reference 23.3.5
  23.11.16. Does the entry supervisor establish a frequency for atmospheric monitoring and
  the type of tests to monitor the tests, and ensures the requirements were entered on the MEP
  and entry permit? Reference 23.3.9
  23.11.17. Does the entry supervisor ensure workers obtain an AF Form 1024, Confined
  Spaces Entry Permit, prior to entering a permit-required confined space? Reference 23.5.1
  23.11.18. Are entry permits, including those canceled or revoked, retained on file for one
  year? Reference 23.5.1.2
  23.11.19. Does the entry supervisor ensure entry into known IDLH spaces are only
  authorized after the required conditions for IDLH are met? Reference 23.5.3
  23.11.20. Does the entry supervisor ensure workers entering IDLH spaces are equipped with
  proper PPE, including a positive pressure SCBA and a harness of a type suitable to permit
  extraction of the worker? Reference 23.5.3.4
  23.11.21. Does the entry supervisor ensure only explosion-proof or intrinsically safe
  equipment is used when flammable or explosive atmospheres are present for IDLH
  operations? Reference 23.5.3.7
  23.11.22. Does the entry supervisor ensure a qualified FES Flight specialist is present during
  all IDLH space operations? Reference 23.5.3.9
  23.11.23. When additional hazards are present or may be introduced in a permit-required
  operation, does the entry supervisor ensure the hazards are adequately addressed on the entry
  permit? Reference 23.5.4.4
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     367



  23.11.24. When toxic materials are present or may be introduced in a permit-required
  operation, does the entry supervisor contact BE to determine the necessity for respiratory
  protection equipment? Reference 23.5.4.4.1
  23.11.25. Does the organization have a MEP, as appropriate? Reference 23.5.4.10
  23.11.26. Are entry permits revoked whenever any testing in the space is not within
  established parameters in the MEP? Reference 23.5.4.10.5
  23.11.27. Is an AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit, obtained by
  workers prior to performing hot riveting, welding, cutting, burning or heating operations
  within a confined space? Reference 23.5.5
  23.11.28. Does the commander or functional manager ensure non-permit required confined
  spaces are reviewed periodically (but no less than annually)? Reference 23.5.6.2
  23.11.29. Does the MEP include emergency and rescue procedures consistent with the
  nature of each operation that requires entry into a permit-required confined space? Reference
  23.6.1
  23.11.30. Does the entry supervisor ensure an organization rescue team is available when the
  installation FES Flight is unable to provide a team? Reference 23.6.1.3
  23.11.31. Does the entry supervisor ensure all members of the rescue team is trained and
  current in CPR and basic first aid during permit-required confined space entry operations?
  Reference 23.6.1.3.2
  23.11.32. Does the entry supervisor ensure the inspection, testing, maintenance and
  documentation of safety and rescue equipment are accomplished prior to an operation being
  performed? Reference 23.6.2
  23.11.33. Does the organization have an effective training program that incorporates safe
  work practices and techniques? Reference 23.7.1
  23.11.34. Does the organization ensure each member assigned permit-required confined
  space duties is trained prior to being assigned? Reference 23.7.1.3
  23.11.35. Does the organization ensure all individuals authorized and assigned permit-
  required confined space entry duties complete site-specific training? Reference 23.7.2
  23.11.36. Do all rescue team members receive initial and annual hands-on training in
  removing simulated victims from actual or representative confined spaces? Reference
  23.7.3.1
  23.11.37. Does the installation CSPT periodically review and assess the rescue team
  training? Reference 23.7.5
  23.11.38. Is confined space training documented on an AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and
  Health Record, or an authorized computerized information management system? Reference
  23.7.5
  23.11.39. Does the organization ensure all of the requirements are met prior to a contractor
  performing work that involves a permit-required confined space entry? Reference 23.8.1
368                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  23.11.40. Does the organization coordinate entry operations and procedures with the
  contractor prior to both organizational and contractor personnel working in a permit-required
  confined space? Reference 23.8.2)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       369



                                          Chapter 24

      AIRCRAFT FLIGHT LINE – GROUND OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES

24.1. General Information.
   24.1.1. Hazards.
      24.1.1.1. Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, and AFI 91-202, The US Air
      Force Mishap Prevention Program, for further information on job safety analysis (JSA)
      and job safety lesson plan. Note: A JSA is not required when existing guidance
      adequately covers all safety requirements of an operation or process. Example: TO 00-
      25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
      24.1.1.2. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and
      Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance on these
      subjects.
   24.1.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. BE personnel perform
   occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments of industrial work processes.
   Supervisors with workplace health hazards questions should contact BE. Refer to paragraph
   2.3 for additional information.
24.2. Specific Requirements.
   24.2.1. Guidance. Supervisors and managers shall follow AFI 91-202, aircraft-specific
   procedural TOs and other TOs and safety standards applicable to their areas of responsibility.
   24.2.2. Fire Prevention. Aircraft servicing and maintenance facilities shall conform to Air
   Force design criteria or equivalent Air Force-approved engineering guidance to minimize fire
   and explosion hazards. Contractor aircraft maintenance facilities shall conform to this
   standard and National Fire Codes. Refer to paragraph 24.17 for additional guidance on
   contractor operations.
   24.2.3. Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)/Self-Aid Buddy Care (SABC). Aircraft
   maintenance and support shop workers exposed to electrical hazards from energized aircraft
   electrical systems, aircraft components or aircraft equipment shall be provided CPR and
   SABC training. This includes personnel who act as safety observers. CPR/SABC training
   shall include bleeding control (bloodborne pathogens training and disposal instructions),
   shock management and emergency care of open wounds and burns. Note: Universal
   precautions must be observed. Infection control requires the supervisor and worker to assume
   that all human blood and specified human body fluids are infectious for HBV, HIV and other
   bloodborne pathogens. Where differentiation of types of body fluids is difficult, all body
   fluids are to be considered as potentially infectious. Any person in the performance of their
   duties who could reasonably be expected to come in contact with blood or other potentially
   infectious materials must be trained IAW 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens.
      24.2.3.1. Installation unit maintenance commanders and supervisors may identify other
      job tasks that require CPR/SABC training based on hazards associated with tasks
      performed. Unit CPR instructors may be trained by host installation medical personnel or
370                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      certified through the American Red Cross or the American Heart Association. All
      personnel requiring CPR/SABC training shall receive refresher training at least every two
      (2) years.
      24.2.3.2. AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, or an equivalent record shall
      be used to document CPR/SABC training unless other documentation is specified
      elsewhere. Documentation shall be maintained by the work center supervisor.
  24.2.4. Lifting Devices. Improper handling and lifting of heavy parts can injure personnel
  and damage aircraft components. Maintenance personnel shall be familiar with the directives
  and general safety standards for equipment they use. Engines and other heavy parts shall be
  handled with hoists, approved hoisting slings and similar equipment. Safe load capacities
  shall be stenciled on all hoists and strictly observed by operating personnel. Personnel shall
  not work under suspended loads. Inspect hoisting equipment IAW Chapter 35, Materials
  Handling Equipment, technical orders (TOs), ANSI standards and/or the manufacturer‘s
  manual(s). Defective hoists shall be locked and/or tagged out of service and shall remain out
  of service until repairs are complete. Weight testing of all lifting devices shall be IAW
  Chapter 35 and/or applicable TOs.
  24.2.5. Compressed Air. Only qualified, trained and authorized workers shall operate air
  compressors and/or repair or adjust pressure-regulating equipment. Compressed air shall not
  be used to clean workers or clothing while on their body. Compressed air used for breathing
  shall meet requirements of TO 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid
  Breathing Air, and AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program.
      24.2.5.1. Compressed air shall not be used for cleaning purposes except when regulated
      to 30 psi or less, and then only when effective chip guarding, air diffuser and eye
      protection are used.
      24.2.5.2. Before servicing any aircraft systems or components, e.g., aircraft tires, air
      bottles or landing gear struts, mechanics shall:
         24.2.5.2.1. Inspect all chucks and valve stems for serviceability to ensure safe
         servicing.
         24.2.5.2.2. Not over-inflate these components.
         24.2.5.2.3. Install pressure regulators to prevent over-pressurization of components.
         24.2.5.2.4. Wear proper PPE and eye protection IAW TO and local installation
         directives.
         24.2.5.2.5. Ensure appropriate equipment has been calibrated, as required.
      24.2.5.3. Air Lines and Fittings. Workers shall:
         24.2.5.3.1. Avoid bending or kinking air hose lines.
         24.2.5.3.2. Place air hose lines where they minimize a tripping hazard and are
         protected against damage caused by equipment or vehicles rolling over them.
         24.2.5.3.3. Inspect air lines and fittings for defects before each use.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      371



         24.2.5.3.4. Ensure non-interchangeable chucks and connections are used on high-
         and low- pressure equipment to preclude servicing low-pressure systems with high-
         pressure equipment.
     24.2.5.4. A drain pipe and valve shall be installed at the lowest point of the air receiver
     to remove accumulated oil and water. The air receiver drain valve, if not automatic, shall
     be opened and receiver completely drained daily to prevent accumulation of excess
     fluids.
  24.2.6. Oxygen and Nitrogen (Liquid and Gaseous). Oxygen is not flammable, but supports
  combustion. Fire or explosion may result if oxygen contacts petroleum products, alcohol or
  other flammable or combustible materials. Oxygen systems subject to excessive pressures
  may result in rupture and explosion. Liquid oxygen (LOX) and liquid nitrogen (LN2) are
  extremely cold, can cause serious burns and can freeze skin upon contact. Nitrogen also
  depletes oxygen in unventilated, confined areas. Refer to Chapter 43, Liquid Nitrogen
  (LN2), Oxygen (LOX) and Cryogen, for additional guidance.
     24.2.6.1. Personnel Training and Safety. Only fully trained and qualified personnel shall
     operate oxygen and nitrogen equipment or service aircraft systems. Servicing personnel
     shall understand the system being serviced, operation of their equipment and precautions
     and instructions for handling liquid or gaseous oxygen and nitrogen. A trainee may
     service only if directly supervised by a qualified supervisor or operator. Personnel
     engaged in oxygen handling and servicing operations shall strictly adhere to pertinent
     safety standards and TOs.
     24.2.6.2. Mobile Servicing Units or Bottles. Mobile servicing units or bottles used to
     service aircraft or components shall be carefully positioned and not left unattended after
     hook-up or during servicing operations.
     24.2.6.3. Aircraft oxygen systems (both gaseous and liquid) shall be emptied/drained
     prior to entering a major maintenance cycle at either an Air Logistics Center, Contract
     Repair Facility or Contract/Depot Field team location. Safeguards shall be taken while
     performing aircraft servicing or maintenance operations to prevent inherently or
     accidentally introducing ignition or combustible sources. Refer to TO 00-25-172 for
     additional guidance.
  24.2.7. Aircraft arresting systems may pose hazards to aircraft and vehicle operations and
  shall follow guidance in AFI 32-1043, Managing, Operating, and Maintaining Aircraft
  Arresting Systems.
  24.2.8. Confined Spaces. Supervisors shall ensure workers comply with requirements in
  Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, when entering confined spaces. Personnel will not enter
  confined spaces without training.
  24.2.9. Red Ball. Red Ball situations require urgent and priority action to prevent late
  takeoffs and ground aborts. Their time-critical nature requires qualified maintenance
  personnel be immediately available, i.e., in a truck nearby on the flight line or standby in a
  shop, during aircraft launch and recovery operations to troubleshoot, isolate and repair
  system malfunctions. Maintenance personnel shall not deviate from authorized maintenance
 372                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   procedures or violate any flight line requirements, i.e., flight line speed limits or safety
   requirements, during Red Balls.
       24.2.9.1. TOs, tools, rags, parts, unused supplies and checklists shall be accounted for
       before         the        aircraft       is        allowed         to        taxi/takeoff.
       24.2.9.2. Emphasis will be placed on FOD awareness/prevention during this critical
       maintenance                                                                    operation.
       24.2.9.3. If aircraft engines are operating, a safety observer (maintenance or aircrew
       member) shall maintain interphone communications or remain in full view of the flight
       crew and be positioned to maintain overall surveillance of the aircraft and personnel
       performing                                                                  maintenance.
       24.2.9.4. Weapons loaded aircraft shall be safed IAW applicable MDS and/or weapons
       specific technical data.
24.3. Flight Line Potentially Hazardous Areas and Operations.
   24.3.1. Flammable Fuel Vapor Areas. Supervisors shall ensure all personnel are aware of
   potentially flammable fuel vapor areas and the restriction against ignition sources in these
   areas. Fuel vapors are heavier than air, settle to ground level and will enter below-ground
   areas. These areas include, but are not limited to, fuel pits below ground level, areas within
   10 feet of aircraft fuel vent systems and fuel spills, hydrant pump houses and fuels
   laboratories. Spark arresters are not required on general or special purpose vehicles driving
   on the flight line and around aircraft. However, these vehicles are not designed, certified or
   authorized to operate in flammable fuel vapor areas. Workers in flammable fuel vapor areas
   shall receive specialized training emphasizing hazards associated with these operations.
   Refer to AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, paragraph 8.34.2., for requirements
   for spark arresters on general or special purpose vehicles within or near structures containing
   exposed explosives. Not rated/approved equipment shall be turned off or removed from the
   area during refueling operations and fuel cell/tank work, unless permitted by TO 1-1-3,
   Inspection and Repair of Aircraft Integral Tanks and Fuel Cells. Only explosion-proof,
   intrinsically safe radios/equipment or equipment incapable of having sufficient energy to be
   an ignition source (approved by competent authority, e.g., HQ AFSEC, HQ AFMC, HQ
   AFCESA) shall be used in and around flammable fuel vapor areas. Refer to NFPA 70,
   Article 501, Class I Locations, for additional information.
   24.3.2. Electrical Receptacles. Electrical receptacles on the flight line are protected from
   weather conditions and are not protected against explosive hazards. Aircraft fueling and
   defueling operations shall not be conducted where outside electrical receptacles are installed.
   If separation is not possible, receptacles in the immediate area of the fueling or defueling
   operations shall be deactivated, using lockout and tagout procedures (service/administrative
   lock procedures) IAW Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout).
   24.3.3. Aircraft Maintenance Operations. Aircraft maintenance operations in hangars,
   shelters or docks (closed or semi-enclosed) on the flight line or outside maintenance areas,
   such as wash racks, shall be accomplished IAW Air Force guidance or recognized national
   consensus standards. MAJCOMs/units operating in overseas or remote areas may supplement
   this standard to meet international or host country safety requirements or unique working
   conditions.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       373



     24.3.3.1. Electrical Devices and Power Equipment. All fixed and installed electrical
     devices and fixed power equipment in hangars, shelters or docks shall comply with Air
     Force design criteria or equivalent Air Force-approved engineering guidance. Portable
     electrical equipment in Class I, Division 1 and Class I, Division 2 locations shall be
     explosion-proof or intrinsically safe and shall comply with NFPA 70, National Electrical
     Code or shall be approved by competent authority, e.g., HQ AFSEC, HQ AFMC, HQ
     AFCESA, to show that the equipment is incapable of having sufficient energy to be an
     ignition source. Items listed in TO 00-25-172, paragraph 3-9e, can be used in Class 1,
     Division 2 locations. Equipment not meeting this requirement may be temporarily
     approved by the installation fire chief prior to the use of the equipment. Approval shall be
     documented in writing, stating the area, nature, duration and the reason for the exception.
     If the working environment has been tested and contains flammable fuel vapors, all
     maintenance activities shall be stopped until the hazardous condition is eliminated and a
     safe work environment restored. Equipment in an area with a high potential for
     flammable fuel vapor release and that can be automatically energized when unattended
     shall be considered for explosion-proof or intrinsically-safe design.
     24.3.3.2. Smoking. Smoking is prohibited in aircraft maintenance facilities, flight line
     areas and weapons storage and maintenance areas unless designated by the installation
     Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight in coordination with the Maintenance Group
     Commander or equivalent, Airfield Manager and/or the functional manager.
     24.3.3.3. Aircraft Fuels Management and Servicing. Fuel system maintenance and
     servicing operations shall be IAW TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and
     Static Grounding/Bonding, Chapter 36, Hydrocarbon Fuels, and other applicable TOs.
     Aircraft fuel cell and integral tank inspections and repairs shall be IAW TO 1-1-3.
     24.3.3.4. Cleaning Parts. Parts shall be cleaned with approved high flashpoint or
     nonflammable solvents or compounds whenever possible. Do not clean aircraft parts,
     hangar floors, equipment or clothing with gasoline or unauthorized solvents. Operations
     requiring low flashpoint solvents shall be considered hazardous and performed in a
     facility or area compatible with the solvents.
        24.3.3.4.1. Flammable liquids shall be kept in approved containers, marked to
        identify contents and stored in buildings/areas specifically approved by the
        installation FES Flight. Refer to Chapter 22, Flammable and Combustibles, for
        additional guidance.
        24.3.3.4.2. Wiping cloths, oily waste and other combustible materials shall be
        disposed of IAW paragraph 24.11.2.2.
        24.3.3.4.3. Proper ventilation shall be maintained and proper protective clothing used
        when working with solvents. Refer to AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, and
        Chapter 35 when handling and using hazardous materials.
     24.3.3.5. Welding on Aircraft. Welding on aircraft shall be done outside of hangars if
     possible. An AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, shall be issued prior to aircraft
     welding operations. Welding shall only be performed on aircraft system components
     IAW applicable aircraft technical data and Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing.
 374                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       Welding operations in hangars shall meet the requirements of NFPA 410, Standard on
       Aircraft Maintenance, Chapter 6. Refer to American Conference of Governmental
       Industrial Hygienists‘ (ACGIH) Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended
       Practice for Operations and Maintenance, for industrial ventilation requirements during
       welding on aircraft.
       24.3.3.6. Fire Extinguishers. Suitable fire extinguishers shall be placed throughout flight
       line and maintenance areas, within easy reach of the operator and close to ground power
       equipment. Refer to TO 00-25-172, Table 3-1, for flight line operations fire extinguisher
       requirements and Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention, for additional information.
       24.3.3.7. Nondestructive Inspection (NDI). NDI operations involving ionizing radiation
       (normally X-ray operations) shall be conducted IAW TO 33B-1-1, Nondestructive
       Inspection Methods, Basic Theory. The installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and
       BE shall approve flight line X-ray procedures and locations.
   24.3.4. Hazardous Noise. Personnel assigned to the flight line may be exposed to hazardous
   noise levels. Supervisors shall ensure assigned personnel adhere to engineering controls,
   administrative controls and properly wear PPE. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-20,
   Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program, for additional guidance.
24.4. Additional PPE Requirements. The information below is specific to flight line
operations and activities and is in addition to the PPE requirements of Chapter 14. Maintenance
workers shall wear heat-resistant gloves and long-sleeve shirts to prevent burns when working
around hot exhaust or tail pipes.
   24.4.1. Head Apparel. Hats or caps shall not be worn on the flight line or in an engine intake
   danger zone (see specific aircraft TO) while engines are operating. Visitors or observers shall
   be briefed on removal of hats and carrying of objects on the flight line or near jet engines.
       24.4.1.1. Bump caps may be worn when working in and around aircraft for protection
       from minor bumps and lacerations, but not during engine starts and run-ups unless engine
       inlet ducts are equipped with run-up screens. Bump caps shall not be substituted for hard
       hats.
       24.4.1.2. Metal, plastic or leather hair fasteners and wigs shall not be worn during
       aircraft maintenance. A rubber band or hair net (with no metal parts) that holds the hair
       wrapped in a bun at the back of the head may be worn. Umbrellas are not permitted on
       the operational flight line except when assisting passengers on or off aircraft during
       inclement weather. Criteria in Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), shall
       be used when aircraft or equipment TOs do not provide specific PPE guidance. When in
       doubt, consult the installation Ground Safety office and BE. Note: Helmets to protect
       workers from impact and flying objects must meet requirements in Chapter 14.
       24.4.1.3. For flight line operations, in extreme cold weather regions, where the
       temperature dips below freezing (32o F), the wear of a thick knit hat, ―beanie‖ (skull cap)
       or appropriate headwear approved by the Maintenance Group Commander in
       coordination with the Ground Safety office is authorized.
   24.4.2. Footwear. Protective footwear shall be provided and worn when there is a reasonable
   possibility of foot injuries. Metallic shoe cleats and taps can generate sparks and create
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      375



  foreign object damage (FOD) hazards and shall not be worn on the flight line. Exception: In
  areas subject to heavy to severe snow/ice conditions, organizations, with approval from their
  MAJCOM or higher headquarters Chief of Safety, may permit use of removable metallic
  shoe cleats to improve traction on ice/snow covered surfaces and prevent worker slips and
  falls. Organizations shall define the type(s) of footwear to be worn, the conditions and
  locations where such footwear may be worn, and procedures/controls to prevent
  cleats/spikes/studs becoming a FOD hazard. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
  Note: Cleats will not be worn working on or inside aircraft, near fueling, defueling or fuel
  cell repair type operations, or operations using flammable solvents, paints, etc.
  24.4.3. Jewelry. Refer to Chapter 14, Jewelry, for detail and additional guidance.
  24.4.4. Reflective Materials.
     24.4.4.1. Vehicle and Equipment Marking. Vehicles, ground servicing and ground
     powered equipment shall be marked with reflective materials to the maximum extent
     authorized by appropriate TOs, such as TO 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial
     Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, and TO 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention and
     Control, Cleaning, Painting, and Marking of USAF Support Equipment (SE). Fire
     extinguishers and all hazardous obstacles on or adjacent to the flight line shall be marked
     with reflective material.
     24.4.4.2. Bicycles. All bicycles (Air Force and privately owned) operated on the flight
     line during the hours of darkness shall be equipped with a suitable headlight (turned on
     and provides adequate illumination) and reflective markings front and rear. Also see
     paragraph 24.13.5.3.
  24.4.5. Jet Intakes. Mechanics entering jet intake sections shall wear appropriate PPE. A
  pocket-less, zipper-less, button-less bunny-suit, cloth over-boots or stocking feet, boots
  removed, for intakes only, shall be worn whenever physical entry into an aircraft intake or
  exhaust is required. To minimize heat stress during high heat/humidity conditions, i.e., air
  temperatures above 85o F, workers in engine intakes may wear half-bunny suits and garments
  designed for use over trousers. When worn with a pocket-less T-shirt, these items provide the
  same level of FOD protection as a full bunny suit. Units using half-bunny suits shall have
  procedures in place to control use.
  24.4.6. LOX/LN2 Transfers.
     24.4.6.1. When transferring LOX, personnel shall wear the following PPE (all items
     shall be clean and free of grease, oil and fuel):
         24.4.6.1.1. Head covering.
         24.4.6.1.2. Eye protection (goggles).
         24.4.6.1.3. Face shield (NSN 4240-00-542-2048) or locally purchased hard hat face
         shield combination. Note: Face shield is secondary eye protection and must be worn
         in conjunction with primary eye protection (goggles).
         24.4.6.1.4. Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder‘s gauntlet cuff (DLA-A-50022)
         (NSN 8415-00-268-7860), medium with gloves, cloth, work, cotton knit (DLA-A-
         55213) (NSN 8415-00-964-4760), medium as an insert; or
 376                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


           24.4.6.1.5. Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-268-7871) with glove
           inserts, wool (NSN 8415-00-682-6673) or equivalent.
           24.4.6.1.6. Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108).
           24.4.6.1.7. Coveralls, cotton white (mandatory) (NSN 8405-00-037-9274).
           24.4.6.1.8. Cuff-less trousers.
           24.4.6.1.9. Long sleeve shirt.
           24.4.6.1.10. Jacket (optional).
           24.4.6.1.11. Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with rubber soles and heels.
       24.4.6.2. When transferring LN2, personnel shall wear the following protective clothing
       and equipment (all items shall be clean and free of grease, oil and fuel):
           24.4.6.2.1. Head covering.
           24.4.6.2.2. Eye protection (goggles).
           24.4.6.2.3. Face shield (NSN 4240-00-542-2048).
           24.4.6.2.4. Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder‘s gauntlet cuff (Federal
           Specification KKG486, Type II, NSN 8415-00-268-7860), medium with gloves,
           cloth, work, cotton knit (MIL G-1057E) (NSN 8415-00-964-4760), medium as an
           insert; or
           24.4.6.2.5. Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-268-7871) with glove
           inserts, wool (NSN 8415-00-682-6673).
           24.4.6.2.6. Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108).
           24.4.6.2.7. Coveralls, cotton white (mandatory) (NSN 8405-00-037-9274), or
           24.4.6.2.8. Jacket.
           24.4.6.2.9. Cuff-less trousers.
           24.4.6.2.10. Long sleeve shirt.
           24.4.6.2.11. Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with rubber soles and heels.
Note 1: The above NSN data is for gloves, size ―medium.‖ Other sizes may be ordered as
required, but all sizes must meet the criteria of the federal and military specifications identified
above.
Note 2: The wool glove insert and cotton knit cloth work gloves used as inserts can be used
interchangeably with either welder‘s gauntlet cuff leather gloves or leather gloves specified
above.
Note 3: A leather boot approximately eight (8) inches in height with close fitting top and rubber
soles and heel is recommended, since LOX spills normally subject one‘s foot area to a freeze
burn exposure hazard. This type footwear when equipped with a hard protective toe area is
generally classified as a safety shoe or boot.
24.5. Aircraft Parking Requirements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         377



  24.5.1. Strict adherence to standards ensures the safety of parked aircraft. Specific parking
  locations shall be designated for each aircraft IAW AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements.
  Generally, distances between parked aircraft, wingtip to wingtip, shall allow immediate
  access of emergency vehicles and permit free movement of equipment and materials. Refer
  to AFH 32-1084 for specific aircraft wingtip distances. Also see UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and
  Heliport Planning and Design. Refer to AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, and
  TO 11A-1-33, Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft, for parking
  explosives loaded aircraft.
  24.5.2. Temporary Parking. A qualified ground observer shall be used to warn oncoming
  traffic when temporarily parked aircraft extend into an active taxiway. A suitable flag will
  suffice in daytime; however, when dark, a high-visibility reflective vest and red warning light
  shall be used. A ground observer shall remain with the aircraft until moved to a safe location.
  Vehicles parked on the flight line shall be parked with the driver‘s side door facing aircraft,
  ignition turned off, keys in the ignition and the gear lever in reverse (manual transmission) or
  park position (automatic transmission) and the brake set. Chock all powered vehicles and all
  equipment mounted on wheels that do not have an integral braking system when left
  unattended on the flight line. Chocks will be placed in front of and behind a rear wheel, or
  one chock placed between the tandem wheels of dual (tandem) axle vehicles.
  24.5.3. Wheel Chocking. Aircraft wheel chocks, fabricated IAW MIL-PRF-32058, Chock,
  Wheel-Track-Aviation, Adjustable Rope Type, and/or the aircraft Dash 2 TO, shall be placed
  fore and aft of the main landing gear or as specified in applicable aircraft TOs. Vehicle
  chocks shall meet Commercial Item Specification A-A-52475 or be made IAW TO 00-25-
  172.
  24.5.4. Clean Parking Areas. Maintenance equipment, workstands, loose aircraft parts and
  materials not actually required for work in progress or planned, shall be moved from the
  aircraft parking area to designated storage locations. Equipment stored outside buildings shall
  be tied down and/or chocked or brakes applied to prevent movement by wind or engine blast.
  Mobile work platforms and stands shall be moored/tied down when in designated storage
  locations to prevent collision with aircraft, vehicles or other equipment. Designated flight
  line support equipment storage areas shall be determined by the AGE Flight Commander and
  Airfield Manager and approved by the Maintenance Group Commander or equivalent in
  coordination with the installation Ground Safety office.
  24.5.5. Taxi/Tow Lines. Taxi/tow lines shall be painted on ramp, taxiway and hangar
  parking areas to aid safe movement of aircraft and vehicle traffic. Parking lines will have
  spots painted where the nose or forward wheel of the aircraft shall be positioned. Hangars
  used for parking helicopters shall have parking lines and rotor blade lines painted on the floor
  to prevent the blades contacting hangar walls. Lines are not required if: numerous types of
  aircraft use the same facility and multiple paint lines would be confusing, fixed objects are
  marked and identified, an aircraft parking plan is established, wing and tail walkers are used
  during hangaring operations and streamers are placed on rotors or wingtips. Exception:
  Under emergency conditions, streamers on helicopters when hangaring are not required.
  Nose docks or other maintenance facilities shall have spots painted where each aircraft wheel
  (forward, aft and outrigger) shall be positioned to prevent aircraft striking the building during
 378                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   docking and undocking. Taxi/tow lines shall be painted on wash rack pavement to help
   position aircraft.
   24.5.6. Mooring or Tie-Down of Aircraft. Follow applicable aircraft TOs and use designated
   fittings on aircraft. Normally, square or bowline knots shall be used to provide secure rope
   fastenings. Allow sufficient slack to prevent excessive stress on wings, fittings and rope from
   tire or strut expansion or deflation and contraction of tie-down ropes when wet. Aircraft
   mooring points shall be placed directly over ground mooring points, or as close as possible.
   24.5.7. Aircraft Emergency Removal. Emergency procedures shall be developed to remove
   endangered aircraft in the event of fire, adverse weather or other emergency situations on the
   flight line or in hangars. Refer to paragraph 24.14.15.
   24.5.8. C-130 Aircraft. Personnel will not enter the plane of rotation of the propellers except
   by walking around the outside (number 1 or number 4) propeller arcs. Exception: If bleed
   air is not supplied to the aircraft, personnel may enter the plane of rotation for preflight
   inspections and maintenance actions.
24.6. Adverse Weather Conditions.
   24.6.1. IAW Chapter 11, Weather Safety, each Air Force installation shall develop local
   procedures to notify key personnel and agencies with high risk activities IAW the installation
   weather support document, and establish a lightning safety program with a two-tiered
   notification system to minimize exposure to lightning hazards. Refer to Chapter 11 for
   further guidance.
   24.6.2. The local base weather organization may, IAW the weather support document,
   initiate notification of adverse weather conditions (includes strong surface winds, heavy rain,
   freezing precipitation, thunderstorms, lightning and hail) to predetermined support agencies.
   Notification may also be initiated by a supporting operational weather squadron/flight
   providing meteorological watch duties for the installation.
   24.6.3. Safeguarding Aircraft. Winds of 20 knots or greater can damage aircraft. When
   possible, aircraft shall be evacuated to safe weather areas when tornadoes, hurricanes or
   winds in excess of 50 knots are forecasted. Local high wind and severe weather safety plans
   shall be developed to include an evacuation plan and hangaring of installation and transient
   aircraft. The option to evacuate is the installation commander‘s decision in coordination with
   the appropriate MAJCOM.
       24.6.3.1. Taxiing Aircraft. Avoid taxiing aircraft during unusually high winds (defined
       by local weather support document). Taxi only at the discretion of the wing commander
       when the action will lessen the possibility of aircraft damage.
       24.6.3.2. Outside Parking. If possible, park aircraft inside hangars. Light aircraft shall be
       given priority over heavy aircraft for parking inside hangars. Aircraft parked outside shall
       be faced into the wind and tied down. Wing spoilers shall be used when necessary to
       reduce airfoil lift. Transient aircraft shall be parked inside hangars, if space permits, or
       tied down as directed by the Maintenance Group Commander or equivalent.
       24.6.3.3. When To Tow Aircraft. Light aircraft in docks or extending outside hangars
       shall be towed clear and parked IAW applicable aircraft TOs when winds exceed 30
       knots (sustained or gusts). Medium or heavy aircraft in docks or extending outside
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         379



      hangars shall be towed clear and parked IAW applicable aircraft TOs when winds exceed
      50 knots (sustained or gusts). Refer to Table 24.1 for additional information.
      24.6.3.4. Working Materials. All maintenance equipment, workstands, loose aircraft
      parts, flight line fire extinguishers and materials not in use shall be removed from aircraft
      parking areas and stored in a safe area. Equipment remaining outside shall be secured
      against wind movement.
      24.6.3.5. Personnel. When winds reach velocities greater than 40 knots, activities other
      than those required to safeguard the aircraft shall be suspended and avoided.
   24.6.4. C-5 and Wide-body Staircases. Caution is required when using C-5 staircase trucks
   during high wind conditions. Wide-body and C-5 staircases are designed to withstand a
   maximum wind velocity of 60 mph/52 knots. Wide-body staircase trucks may be used to
   upload/download passengers whenever wind velocity (including gusts) on the ramp area is at
   or below 40 mph/35 knots. C-5 staircase trucks may be used to upload/download passengers
   whenever wind velocity (including gusts) on the ramp area is at or below 29 mph/25 knots. If
   wind velocity (including gusts) on the ramp area exceeds 40 mph/35 knots, ATOC senior
   controller/superintendent shall decide on a case-by-case basis whether the wide-body
   staircase will be used and then so direct. C-5 staircases will not be used to upload/download
   passengers whenever wind velocity (including gusts) on the ramp area exceeds 29 mph/25
   knots. This standard applies whenever a wide-body or C-5 staircase truck is used on any
   aircraft.

Table 24.1. Adverse Weather High Wind Safeguards.
                          Adverse Weather High Wind Safeguards
                       Winds 20-30 Knots Winds 31-50 Knots Winds Over 50 Knots
  Required Actions Ensure all aircraft     In addition to high   In addition to high
    Personnel will    precautionary        wind precautions      wind precautions, have
   adhere to locally actions are taken     secure all materials  all nonessential
   established high IAW applicable         and maintenance       personnel move to
      wind safety     TOs, Directives and equipment.             shelter or remain in
  precautions, plans, Publications.                              their duty section.
    and checklists                                               WARNING: Do not
  developed by each                                              open canopy hatch or
    functional area                                              any access door or
     and observed                                                remove any covers
    along with the                                               when winds are in
       guidance                                                  excess of 50 knots.
  presented. Criteria Ensure all non-      Hangar all aircraft   ALL AGE must be
     for advisories   essential AGE and    with less than 15,000 removed from flight
   varies from state other loose           pounds gross weight line. Maximum
     to state; local  equipment is         (i.e. engines         number of aircraft
   procedures shall removed from the       removed, no fuel)     shall be hangared.
    consider these    flight line and
        factors.      secured (except fire
                      extinguishers)
 380                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                           Adverse Weather High Wind Safeguards
                        Winds 20-30 Knots Winds 31-50 Knots Winds Over 50 Knots
                       If aircraft is not    Hangar all aircraft   All non-essential
                       being worked,         with canopies and/or personnel shall seek
                       ensure all            RADOMES               shelter or remain
                       RADOMES,              removed.              inside their duty
                       canopies and access                         sections.
                       panels/doors are
                       closed and secured.
                       Ensure all protective Aircraft should be    For winds in excess of
                       covers are installed  triple chocked and    70 knots, moor aircraft
                       on aircraft.          laced.                IAW applicable TOs;
                                                                   clear ramp.
                                             Secure all equipment. Consider evacuation of
                                                                   aircraft.

Note 1: This table shall be used as a guide in tying down, hangaring or evacuating aircraft.
Note 2: Installation Commander is the governing authority on the evacuation of installation
aircraft.
24.7. Towing and Taxiing Aircraft.
   24.7.1. Towing Operations. Refer to AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
   Management, for vehicle operator‘s aircraft towing responsibilities and qualifications. A tow
   operation will consist of trained and qualified workers, thoroughly familiar with aircraft
   towing responsibilities including TO and local procedures and conditions, such as inclined
   ramps, emergencies, other local limitations and weather conditions. For maximum safety,
   tow team workers shall not place themselves in the direct path of aircraft wheels nor ride on
   any external portion of an aircraft or tow vehicle. When connecting a tow bar to the tow
   vehicle, workers shall stand clear until the backing tow vehicle is in close proximity to the
   tow bar. When connecting a tow vehicle to the aircraft, workers shall watch for any sudden
   tow vehicle movement. Avoid backing aircraft when possible. MAJCOMs may authorize
   movement of aircraft into hardened aircraft shelters (HAS) while the aircraft engines are
   operating, provided a System Safety Engineering Analysis (SSEA) has been conducted. An
   SSEA shall be conducted for each type or generation shelter and type of aircraft to be moved
   into the shelter. Note: Technical data takes precedence over this standard when differences
   exist in towing procedures.
   24.7.2. Qualified Personnel. All aircraft tow team members shall be familiar with all
   published towing procedures for the aircraft being towed. Supervisors shall conduct written
   proficiency tests on local procedures and an operating standards review at least annually.
   Newly assigned aircraft maintenance specialists shall pass a proficiency test on the types of
   aircraft towed after completing supervised on-the-job training (OJT). Wing and tail walkers
   shall be familiar with all published towing procedures for the aircraft being towed but do not
   require annual proficiency training if their duties are restricted to these positions during
   towing operations. Tow team supervisors shall ensure all team members are qualified per
   requirements above and shall clearly define duties and responsibilities at the time of the pre-
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        381



  tow briefing. Refer to paragraphs 24.7.2.3, 24.7.2.4, 24.7.2.5 and 24.7.2.7 for additional
  information.
     24.7.2.1. Tow Team Supervisor. The tow team supervisor shall be in complete command
     and will take a position that will ensure surveillance of the towing procedures and
     performance of other team members. Normally, this will be the position of nose walker.
     The supervisor shall use a checklist covering safe movement of the towed aircraft.
     Checklist steps shall be completed and towing personnel briefed before the aircraft is
     moved. Only the supervisor shall be authorized to give the ―all clear to move‖ order. The
     supervisor will determine the safe distance, based on aircraft type and amount of
     allowable space to maneuver the aircraft; the tow vehicle operator can back the aircraft
     into its final position. Hangaring aircraft is considered final positioning, which includes
     final entry. Refer to paragraph 24.7.2.8 for additional guidance on hangaring aircraft.
     Wing walkers shall be required when backing aircraft. Refer to paragraph 24.7.18 for
     additional guidance.
     24.7.2.2. Towing Team Assignments. Tow team size and where they are stationed shall
     be IAW applicable aircraft TO procedures. Each shall have a tow team supervisor. Note:
     Tail and wing walkers are not required when towing aircraft on unobstructed, established
     taxiways and runways or parking ramps where taxi or towing lanes are marked with
     guide lines.
     24.7.2.3. Brake Person in Cockpit. A qualified person, authorized by the supervisor, shall
     be in the pilot‘s seat to operate aircraft brakes and follow the supervisor‘s signals. If the
     brake operator is unable to maintain hydraulic pressure, another qualified person shall be
     stationed to watch and maintain the pressure. The supervisor shall terminate the towing
     operation if brake pressure drops below safe operating limits.
     24.7.2.4. Tow Vehicle Operator. An authorized and qualified vehicle operator shall
     control the tow vehicle at all times during aircraft movement, operate the vehicle in a safe
     manner, follow team supervisor‘s instructions, obey any emergency stop instructions and
     stop the tow vehicle upon losing sight of or communication with the tow supervisor. The
     vehicle operator shall face the direction of travel while seated and not look over his or her
     shoulder to face the direction of travel except while making minor changes during final
     positioning. Hangaring aircraft is considered final positioning (includes final entry) so
     minor changes are allowed. Positioning the aircraft an appropriate distance from hangar
     doors and backing the aircraft into the hangar is acceptable. The towing supervisor shall
     determine final positioning, based on aircraft type and maneuverability, and brief the
     towing crew.
     24.7.2.5. Wing Walker. A wing walker shall be stationed at each wingtip to ensure
     adequate aircraft clearance of any obstruction and shall signal the supervisor whenever
     the aircraft is in danger of colliding with an obstruction. In such cases, towing shall be
     stopped until clearance is personally checked by the supervisor. Wing walkers are not
     required when towing helicopters with rotor blades in parallel position (H-1 type
     helicopters parallel rotor blades in a fore and aft trail position). Wing walkers shall be
     familiar with all published towing procedures for the aircraft being towed but do not
     require annual proficiency training if their duties are restricted to these positions during
382                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      towing operations. Thorough pre-tow briefings by a qualified towing supervisor satisfy
      the training requirement. Note: When differences exist in towing procedures prescribed
      in this standard and applicable technical data for the specific aircraft, the technical data
      will take precedence.
      24.7.2.6. Nose Walker. The tow team supervisor also serves as the nose walker and shall
      maintain a safe position in front of the towing vehicle and have a clear view of both wing
      walkers, the vehicle operator and the person in the cockpit. The nose walker shall have
      direct contact with the person in the cockpit by interphone or communications media
      specified in applicable aircraft TOs. When tail and wing walkers are not required, the
      nose walker may ride in the tow vehicle cab if he can observe the path to be traversed and
      direct actions of the cockpit brake person and vehicle operator.
      24.7.2.7. Tail Walker. A tail walker shall be used when the aircraft is turned sharply or
      backed into position. A tail walker is required when backing aircraft into a HAS with
      permanent chocks installed. Tail walkers shall be familiar with all published towing
      procedures for the aircraft being towed but do not require annual proficiency training if
      their duties are restricted to these positions during towing operations. Thorough pre-tow
      briefings by a qualified towing supervisor satisfy the training requirement. Note: The
      tow team supervisor may eliminate the tail walker when moving small aircraft or in third
      generation HAS. Earlier generation HAS do not have sufficient clearance to allow
      eliminating the tail walker.
      24.7.2.8. Final Positioning (Hangaring Aircraft). Some aircraft have MDS Specific TOs
      that address final positioning of hangaring aircraft. For aircraft not addressed in MDS
      Specific TOs, final positioning of hangaring aircraft is considered to be the last act of
      positioning the aircraft in its parking spot in a designated hangar. Final positioning may
      begin at the door of the hangar but is not considered complete until the aircraft is parked
      in its assigned parking spot for maintenance, training, etc. (final position).
         24.7.2.8.1. There is no distance requirement for final positioning of an aircraft, i.e.,
         the final two or three feet do not constitute final positioning. For smaller aircraft, the
         process may be simple and fairly quick. For bigger aircraft, that process may be a
         more arduous task. Also the amount of aircraft already hangared may play a major
         role in hangaring additional aircraft.
         24.7.2.8.2. The tow team will consist of the team identified in paragraphs 24.7.2.1
         through 24.7.2.7 for final positioning.
  24.7.3. Steerable Gear. Steerable landing gear, including outriggers, shall be set in tow
  position before the aircraft is moved and returned to original position after tow bar removal.
  The tow supervisor shall instruct cockpit personnel to allow the nose gear steering wheel to
  turn freely and not attempt to steer or turn the nose wheel when the tow bar is connected to
  the aircraft.
  24.7.4. Workers Riding or Walking. Workers shall not cross a tow bar connected to both the
  aircraft and the tow vehicle, nor ride on the outside of a moving aircraft, tow bar or on the
  outside of tow vehicles unless an authorized seat is provided. No one will try to board or
  leave a moving aircraft or tow vehicle. The tow supervisor shall brief this information prior
  to towing.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     383



  24.7.5. Night Crew Signals. Two luminous wands shall be issued to tow team members who
  require wands. Tow team supervisors should use wands even if aircraft interphone contact is
  established with tow vehicle operator and cockpit brake person. Wands or wingtip lights shall
  be used by other tow team members, as needed, to warn approaching aircraft traffic. Refer to
  AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, for night crew signaling
  practices. Note: Many units have established local policy on night crew signaling
  procedures. Local policy shall be written IAW the tenets of AFI 11-218.
  24.7.6. Control Tower Clearance. The tow team supervisor shall obtain control tower
  clearance before towing aircraft on or across a taxiway or runway, maintain radio contact
  with tower and inform the tower when tow is complete. The primary means of
  communication shall be the aircraft radio, but, if not feasible, a radio-equipped escort
  vehicle, in direct radio contact with the control tower, shall accompany the aircraft
  throughout the towing operation.
  24.7.7. Towing Speed. Towing speed shall not exceed the walking speed of team members,
  with a maximum of five (5) miles per hour.
  24.7.8. Brakes. To prevent serious mishaps, aircraft brake systems shall be charged before
  each towing operation, and towing shall be stopped immediately if brake pressure drops
  below safe operating limits. Aircraft with inoperative brakes will follow MDS-specific
  guidance procedures. Aircraft without MDS-specific guidance for towing with inoperative
  brakes will comply with the following procedures:
     24.7.8.1. Obtain Maintenance Group Commander or designated representative approval
     prior to each tow.
     24.7.8.2. Maintain radio communication throughout entire towing operation.
     24.7.8.3. Additional personnel will chock walk the aircraft, positioned outboard of each
     landing gear strut requiring chocks. Note 1: The aircraft maintenance organization will
     develop local procedures for aircraft without MDS-specific guidance and publish them in
     a local OI or supplement. Procedures shall include main landing gear chock walk
     requirements. Note 2: The same procedures above shall be followed when towing
     aircraft with inoperative brakes from a repair facility, i.e., to allow repairs on higher
     priority aircraft.
  24.7.9. Tow Bars. Only authorized equipment in good condition shall be used in towing
  operations. Before moving any aircraft, the tow vehicle, tow bars and connections and other
  associated equipment shall be inspected for defects by the tow team supervisor.
  24.7.10. Chocks. Chocks shall be maintained near the tow vehicle or aircraft for emergency
  use throughout the towing operation and shall be properly placed before the tow vehicle is
  unhooked. Chocks or other support equipment shall not be placed on or hung from any part
  of the aircraft exterior during towing or repositioning operations.
     24.7.10.1. During inclement weather conditions, when towing or parking aircraft with
     snow, ice or frost present anywhere on the parking ramp or towing surface, use the
     heaviest tow vehicle authorized per aircraft technical data to prevent loss of aircraft or
384                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      tow vehicle control during tow operations. Also, equip the tow vehicle with chains to
      maintain traction.
      24.7.10.2. Conduct an ORM assessment of proposed tow operation based on current
      runway and taxiway condition readings from local Airfield Management. The decision to
      proceed shall be approved by appropriate squadron command levels.
  24.7.11. Starts and Stops. Tow vehicle operators shall not stop and start suddenly when
  moving aircraft. Aircraft brakes shall only be applied upon direction from tow supervisor.
  Chocks shall be properly placed and the aircraft‘s brakes set before the towing vehicle is
  unhooked from the aircraft,
  24.7.12. Equipment, Stands and Similar Materials. The supervisor shall ensure all
  equipment, workstands, loose aircraft parts, fire extinguishers and all other materials are
  removed from the vicinity of an aircraft and properly stored. Equipment or materials left
  outside shall be secured to prevent accidental movement by wind or jet or propeller blast.
  24.7.13. Entrance Doors, Ladders and Down Locks. Aircraft entrance doors shall be closed,
  ladders retracted or removed, and landing gear down locks installed to prevent possible
  worker injury and aircraft damage during towing operations, unless permitted by specific
  aircraft TOs.
  24.7.14. Struts and Tires. Towing team members will check nose and main landing gear
  struts and tires for proper inflation prior to towing any aircraft. A visual check of tires and
  struts shall be adequate for towing purposes unless the applicable TO requires a gauge check.
  24.7.15. Docks. The following precautions shall be taken when moving multi-engine aircraft
  with propellers (particularly into and out of docks):
      24.7.15.1. Ensure ramps are clear of snow and ice at least 100 feet in front of dock doors
      and far enough on each side to accommodate all landing gear wheels.
      24.7.15.2. Open hangar doors enough to allow complete passage of the aircraft, both in
      width and height, with at least 10 foot wingtip clearance on either side. Inflate or deflate
      tires as necessary to provide required clearances, but do not exceed minimum or
      maximum pressures. If hangar construction does not permit such clearance, the doors
      shall be opened to the maximum limit. Wing walkers shall be used when an aircraft is
      placed in a hangar. Also see paragraph 24.14.8.4. Under normal conditions, powered
      hangar or shelter doors shall be opened at least 10 feet. Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous
      Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), for lockout requirements.
      24.7.15.3. Maintain landing gear strut extension suitable for the aircraft and dock
      involved.
      24.7.15.4. Place propellers in an ―X‖ position or position suitable for the aircraft and
      dock combination.
      24.7.15.5. Keep hydraulic brake pressure at or above safe minimum values in applicable
      TOs.
      24.7.15.6. Station two (2) team members to observe the top clearance of propeller
      blades.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         385



  24.7.16. Towing Vehicle Inspections. Tow vehicle operators shall inspect all towing
  equipment to ensure it is serviceable and functioning properly before starting any tow
  operation. Inspection shall be documented on AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide
  and Trouble Report. The tow team supervisor is responsible for the entire towing operation
  and shall ensure the tow vehicle is free of defects or extraneous material that may interfere
  with safe operation before the tow bar is hooked to the aircraft. The unit vehicle control plan
  shall ensure a qualified operator inspects each tow vehicle designated for emergency
  response use each shift to ensure the cab and bed are clear of extraneous materials and the
  vehicle is safe for use. All other tow vehicles shall be inspected using the same criteria prior
  to use. Towing connections shall be inspected before each use. Pintle assemblies and towing
  connections shall be secured with a pintle hook safety or cotter pin that will positively lock
  towing connections. Tow vehicles with safety defects shall be removed from service until
  repaired.
  24.7.17. Approach of Towing Vehicle. The tow vehicle driver will stop at least 50 feet from
  the aircraft to be moved and shall proceed only when directed by the tow team supervisor.
  24.7.18. Towing Clearance. The tow vehicle shall remain at least 50 feet from other aircraft
  or vehicles and at least 150 feet when towing aircraft with faulty brakes. Caution: The
  wingtip path on sweptback wing aircraft extends beyond the straight line wingtip path during
  turns, based on the degree of turn and the degree of sweep on the wings. In some cases the
  aircraft tail path may also exceed wingtip path. Equipment, vehicles and other aircraft may
  appear to be clear of the intended path, while actually impeding it. Refer to Figure 24.1 for
  additional guidance.
  24.7.19. Towing Aircraft Without Cockpit Access. Chocks shall be immediately available
  for emergency use when moving cocooned aircraft without seat, brakes or with closed and
  sealed canopies.
  24.7.20. Engine Operation. As a general rule, aircraft shall not be towed with engines
  operating. However, civilian contract air carrier jet engine transport aircraft may be towed or
  pushed short distances with engines operating IAW Federal Aviation Administration-
  approved procedures in operations and maintenance handbooks. Copies of these procedures
  shall be carried on the aircraft. Air Force aircraft may only be pushed back with engines
  running during non-routine or abnormal operational requirements using push-back
  procedures supported by engineering analysis and the aircraft Dash 1 TO.
  24.7.21. Taxiing Operations. A marshaler shall be used. Personnel shall remain clear of
  taxiing aircraft until the aircraft has come to a complete stop. Aircraft shall not be taxied
  closer than 100 feet to an active runway where aircraft are operated unless taxiing on an
  established taxiway. Wing walkers shall be used when taxiing within 25 feet of obstructions.
  Wing Commanders may waive this provision for locally based aircraft if taxi lines and
  permanent obstructions are marked or other aircraft are parked on parking spots or lines.
  Aircraft shall not be taxied within 10 feet of an obstruction, except during contingency
  operations when compliance would restrict the mission; or from alert, readiness or protective
  shelters. A plainly visible centerline shall be painted along the exit path and a marshaler shall
  be used; or when operating locally based aircraft from parking spots specifically designed for
  those aircraft. Parking spots shall have a minimum 10-foot wingtip clearance between
386                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  aircraft, taxi routes clearly marked and support equipment placed in designated locations.
  Caution: The wingtip path on swept-back wing aircraft extends beyond the straight line
  wingtip path during turns, based on the degree of turn and the degree of sweep on the wings.
  Equipment, vehicles and other aircraft may appear to be clear of the intended path while
  actually impeding it. Refer to Figure 24.1
      24.7.21.1. Aircraft Taxiing Requirements. Aircraft canopy and windshield shall be clean
      before aircraft taxi and position lights ON from before engine start until engine
      shutdown. T-38 and C-21 aircraft and aircraft in approved sound suppressors are exempt
      during daylight hours. Note: Exercise care not to blind ground crew members when
      taxiing with landing lights on. Refer to AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement
      on the Ground, for further guidance.
         24.7.21.1.1. Doors and Hatches. Unless a specific requirement exists, no aircraft
         shall be taxied with open doors or hatches. Personnel shall secure doors and hatches
         IAW operating instructions and checklists before starting engines, taxiing or actual
         flight. Aircraft commanders shall brief all personnel on board not to leave or enter the
         aircraft while it is moving. If a door warning light comes on during taxiing, the
         aircraft shall be completely stopped, if operational or airfield constraints allow, and
         the cause determined.
         24.7.21.1.2. Communications. Aircraft shall not be taxied without clearance. Radio
         contact shall be maintained with the control tower throughout taxi operations. Taxi
         speeds in uncongested areas shall be reasonable, with aircraft and personnel safety the
         determining factors. Follow guidance in Dash 1 handbooks for taxi operations under
         varying wind conditions.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       387



Figure 24.1. Swept Wing Aircraft Hazard.




Note: Illustrates how wingtip path on swept-back wing aircraft extends beyond the straight line
path during turns based on the degree of turn and the degree of sweep on the wings.
       24.7.21.2. Crossing Behind Aircraft. Personnel, vehicles and towed aircraft shall remain
       clear of taxiing traffic and will not pass within 200 feet behind aircraft with engines
       running.
       24.7.21.3. Ramp Areas. Aircraft parked in ramp areas shall be taxied only after an ―ALL
       CLEAR‖ signal is given by the ramp supervisor.
 388                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       24.7.21.4. Signaling at Night. At night, ground crewmembers shall use two illuminated
       wands for signaling taxiing aircraft IAW paragraph 24.7.5. Refer to AFI 11-218 for
       further guidance.
       24.7.21.5. Taxiing Near Other Aircraft. Pilots and taxi-qualified technicians shall use
       minimum power when leaving a row of parked aircraft and taxi in a way that prevents
       propeller or exhaust blast endangering personnel, parked aircraft or property. The
       minimum safe distance behind a jet aircraft at 100 percent power setting is where the jet
       blast does not exceed 35 miles per hour and 38o C / 100o F. Refer to applicable aircraft
       TOs for the recommended safe distance.
       24.7.21.6. Jet Run-up Areas. Caution signs, constructed IAW Chapter 29, Mishap
       Prevention Signs and Tags, shall be posted at entrances, gates and approaches to jet run-
       up areas.
24.8. Aircraft Jacking Operations.
   24.8.1. General Requirements:
       24.8.1.1. All personnel involved in jacking operations shall be thoroughly familiar with
       TOs and handbooks for the aircraft involved and follow procedures in these publications.
       Jacks shall be: operated, maintained, inspected and tested IAW applicable TOs or
       handbooks; inspected before use to verify lifting capacity, proper functioning of safety
       locks, conditions of pins and general serviceability; and inspected with documentation
       maintained by work section supervisor. If integrity of jack is questionable, the jack shall
       be removed from service and the supervisor notified.
       24.8.1.2. Workers shall follow specific aircraft TO jacking procedures. Non-essential
       workstands and equipment shall be removed from under the aircraft before jacking. If the
       aircraft weight-and-balance condition has been affected by removing heavy items, weight
       shall be added to reestablish the proper center of gravity before jacking. Workers shall
       not remain in aircraft being raised or lowered, unless directed by TO (i.e., to observe
       leveling instruments). TO prescribed jack pads, jack pad fittings and correct jack screw
       adapters and extensions shall be installed prior to jacking. Chocks shall be removed and
       brakes released before the aircraft is raised or lowered,.
       24.8.1.3. Safety stands of suitable capacity shall be installed under aircraft wings and tail
       after the aircraft is jacked and leveled if equipment failure or an unbalanced condition
       could occur.
       24.8.1.4. Personnel shall not pass under, climb or walk on any portion of the aircraft
       when the entire aircraft is supported by jacks, except to support jacking activities or when
       operationally necessary to perform maintenance. The area around jacked aircraft shall be
       secured and warning signs posted. Personnel not directly involved in jacking operations
       or performing maintenance on jacked aircraft shall remain outside the posted area. Depot
       maintenance facilities may post signs at work area, hangar and flight line entrances in
       lieu of securing and signing individual aircraft
       24.8.1.5. Engines and other major components, such as wing panels and stabilizers, that
       affect aircraft center of gravity or are identified as stress areas, shall not be changed or
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       389



     removed on jacked aircraft with landing gear clear of the ramp or floor except IAW
     aircraft TOs.
     24.8.1.6. The ram locknut will lower under its own weight or be turned down by hand as
     the ram is extended and shall remain against the lift tube cylinder during jacking
     procedures. Other types of jacks, if equipped with locking pins or nuts, shall be set
     immediately after jacking is complete. Refer to TO 35A2-1-1, General Inspection
     Procedures and Overhaul Instructions – For Hydraulic Jacks, for specific instructions.
  24.8.2. Specific Requirements:
     24.8.2.1. Outside Jacking. Aircraft may be jacked outside hangars when wind conditions
     permit. When aircraft wind velocity specifications are not available, 13 knots (15 miles
     per hour) shall be used as a safe maximum velocity for outside jacking. Jacking shall be
     done on a level surface. High tail surfaces of some aircraft require special consideration
     when exposed to even moderate wind. Maintenance workers shall be familiar with
     appropriate aircraft TOs before jacking.
     24.8.2.2. Hangar-Dock Jacking. Hydraulic pumping units for aircraft jacks shall not be
     operated in aircraft hangars unless authorized by the Maintenance Group Commander or
     equivalent, ground safety representative and installation fire chief. When authorized,
     hydraulic pumping unit design shall ensure all electrical equipment, sparking contacts,
     hot surfaces and other possible ignition sources are at least 18 inches above floor level.
     Refer to NFPA 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance, and NFPA 70, National
     Electrical Code, for additional guidance. Hydraulic pumping units shall be placed at least
     25 feet from the aircraft in an area free of combustible material and the pumping unit
     engine properly grounded.
     24.8.2.3. Releasing Jacks. Maintenance workers shall ensure the area beneath the aircraft
     is clear of equipment, cribbing and personnel, and verify the aircraft is ready for lowering
     before releasing jack pressure and lowering the aircraft. Workers shall ensure the landing
     gear is completely down and locked in position with all ground locking devices installed.
     Only workers required to operate jacks and free the struts will remain near the aircraft
     while lowering. The aircraft shall be lowered slowly and evenly to the surface. Workers
     should exercise care when removing jacks to prevent aircraft skin or structure damage.
     Jacks shall be removed by first turning down the jack screw extension then depressing the
     ram into the cylinder. Personnel will not place any part of their hands on top of the ram to
     avoid injury while depressing the ram.
     24.8.2.4. Landing Gear Retraction Tests. Landing gear retraction tests shall be directed
     orally, using an interphone system for communication between a ground observer outside
     the aircraft and the landing gear operator. Use of hand signals is acceptable if the
     interphone system is inoperable and the ground observer maintains direct visual contact
     with both the wheel well/gear swing areas and the landing gear operator at all times. The
     ground observer will ensure the wheel well and gear swing areas are clear of personnel
     and equipment prior to and during all testing.
     24.8.2.5. Fire Fighting Equipment. Maintenance workers will ensure suitable portable
     firefighting equipment is readily available and properly positioned. After aircraft
 390                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       departure, fire extinguishers used to support that aircraft shall be removed from the ramp.
       Refer to Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention, and TO 00-25-172, for additional
       guidance.
24.9. Aircraft Engine Operations.
   24.9.1. Engine starts and run-ups present hazards to personnel and other aircraft. Personnel
   near an engine start or run-up shall wear, at a minimum, hearing protection as prescribed by
   BE. Eye protection shall be required if conditions exist where flying debris is present, i.e.,
   unimproved/austere runways or aircraft backing maneuvers. The fire hazard is high because
   fuel vapors may be ignited by exhaust flames. Rotating propellers are dangerous to personnel
   and can cause extensive equipment damage. Except for turboprop aircraft, personnel will not
   hand-pull the propeller of a recently operated engine. The ignition switch for reciprocating or
   electric start engines shall be in the OFF position when engines are not operating and the
   master battery switch shall be turned off when no longer required. For C-130 aircraft,
   personnel will not enter the plane of rotation of the propellers except by walking around the
   outside (number 1 or number 4) propeller arcs. (Exception: If bleed air is not supplied to the
   aircraft, personnel may enter the plane of rotation for preflight inspections and maintenance
   actions.) Personnel shall not stand in line with the stripe that designates the plane of propeller
   operation. Radio contact with the control tower shall be maintained during engine operation
   or taxiing or with job control during engine runs when the control tower is not operating.
   Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) shall be prepared to request FES Flight or medical
   services assistance as needed.
   24.9.2. Aircraft Chocks. Aircraft shall be properly chocked and parked IAW applicable TOs
   and job guides before starting engines. Functional managers will ensure only chocks
   approved by MIL-PRF-30258 and/or the specific aircraft Dash 2 TOs are used. When aircraft
   engines are in operation, chocks shall be removed with the utmost caution after the proper
   signal has been given. Workers will approach the aircraft from the safest direction,
   considering location of propellers, jet intakes and exhausts.
   24.9.3. Personnel on Exterior Portions of Aircraft. Personnel shall not be allowed on external
   portions of an aircraft during engine start or when taxiing. Qualified workers may stand on
   TO designated areas only during instruction on ground operation procedures and necessary
   adjustments. Qualified workers may service hydraulic fluid and engine oil or make minor
   adjustments on multi-engine aircraft with engines operating if engines on the wing being
   worked are shut down and engines on the opposite wing are in idle. Interphone or radio
   contact shall be maintained with the cockpit operator, if possible, or the workers shall be
   under direct observation of another crewmember, team member or fire guard with direct
   cockpit communication. Aircraft wing and formation lights shall be on to warn personnel of
   engine operation IAW AFI 11-218.
   24.9.4. Fire Guard. A qualified (trained) fire guard (need not be a certified firefighter) shall
   be positioned by the fire bottle(s), if required by the aircraft TO, prior to starting aircraft
   engines. This individual shall remain stand by in readiness until all engines are operating and
   fire danger is past; i.e., crew chief or team leader can release fire guard once engines are
   started and no fire danger exists. If no fire guard is required by aircraft TO:
       24.9.4.1. Aircraft with internal fire fighting capability shall have a ground observer in
       position on interphone to monitor and report any problems, e.g., fire, fuel leaks, aircraft
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        391



     movement, and shall remain in position until released by the individual operating the
     engine.
     24.9.4.2. Aircraft without interphone capability shall have a fire guard stationed to
     observe the engine start process. After start, the fire guard will remain in clear view of
     cockpit personnel and observe aircraft and area during engine operation. Warning: Use
     extreme caution to ensure all personnel remain clear of propeller arc and/or jet
     intakes/exhaust during ground operation. Exception: Aero Club or similar aircraft used
     by CAP-USAF or Civil Air Patrol may be started/operated without a fire guard if fire
     extinguishers are readily accessible during engine starts, aircraft maintenance and
     refueling, and if it does not violate manufacturer‘s operating handbook procedures.
  24.9.5. Qualified Personnel. Only personnel trained and certified IAW AFI 11-218 shall be
  authorized to start and run-up aircraft engines. The engine run supervisor is responsible for
  inspecting the surrounding area to ensure it is clear of equipment, personnel and materials
  that might cause or be subject to FOD. Equipment or materials subject to engine blasts or
  being blown into other equipment shall be repositioned or secured. Refer to AFI 21-101,
  Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, for additional information.
  24.9.6. Jet Engine Start Observers. A ground crewmember, in contact by interphone at all
  times with the person operating the engine control, shall be stationed in front and to one side
  of the engine being started. On aircraft without interphone capability, a ground crewmember
  shall be stationed to observe the start and give necessary signals to the person in the cockpit.
  24.9.7. Cockpit Checklist. Workers starting, operating and testing aircraft engines shall use
  the appropriate cockpit checklist before, during and after the operation.
  24.9.8. Jet Engine FOD. Damage caused to jet engines by foreign objects and debris sucked
  through inlet ducts can be reduced by use of inlet duct run-up screens on certain aircraft
  types. Operational needs may require installation and removal of screens while engines are
  running. Ensure engine inlet run-up screens and anti-personnel guards are used IAW
  applicable system TOs. Refer to AFI 21-101 for additional information on FOD prevention
  and FOD prevention programs.
  24.9.9. Hearing Protection Devices. Crew and maintenance personnel shall wear approved
  hearing protection in noise hazard areas to prevent permanent hearing loss. BE will
  determine noise hazard areas, protection requirements and adequacy of hearing protection.
  24.9.10. Rotary Wing Aircraft.
     24.9.10.1. The collective pitch stick shall be locked in the full low position during engine
     run-up by ground workers. Personnel and equipment shall be kept clear of rotary wing
     aircraft at least a distance equal to its length, to prevent injury and damage if a quick
     excessive throttle start swings the tail.
     24.9.10.2. Main rotor blades shall be tracked only with an experienced pilot at the
     controls. Engine run-up shall not be attempted by fewer workers than specified in specific
     aircraft TOs. Personnel shall exercise caution when approaching the plane of rotation of
     main rotor blades because they droop at decreased speeds.
 392                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       24.9.10.3. All personnel shall remain in full view of the pilot or helicopter operator and
       keep a crouched position approaching or leaving a helicopter with rotating blades.
       Personnel shall avoid the area from cockpit or cabin rearward unless authorized by
       helicopter operator to work in this location. Keep unauthorized personnel at least 50 feet
       from helicopters with turning rotor blades.
       24.9.10.4. Personnel shall use extreme caution to stay clear of main and stabilizing rotors
       when visibility is reduced by dust or other conditions. Protective goggles shall be worn
       by all personnel and other precautions taken as needed to minimize problems from
       reduced visibility.
       24.9.10.5. Adequate precautions shall be taken to protect personnel from flying objects
       caused by rotor downwash. All loose gear within 100 feet of the area susceptible to rotor
       downwash shall be secured or removed.
24.10. Jet Aircraft Requirements.
   24.10.1. General safety standards for conventional powered aircraft also apply to jet aircraft,
   and ground handling of jet aircraft involves hazards not common to conventional types.
   Engine inlet suction and exhaust blast pose hazards to maintenance, support and flight crew
   personnel.
   24.10.2. Reserved.
   24.10.3. Suction Effect. Jet engine suction can ingest personnel, causing loss of life.
   Additionally, ingestion of tools or personal articles may cause extensive engine damage.
   Unless required by TO, crewmembers, maintenance workers and other personnel shall not
   approach closer than 5 feet from the side or rear or 25 feet from the front of engine intake
   ducts of running engines. Personnel may approach multi-engine aircraft, e.g., F-15, from the
   opposite direction of the running engine, but shall use extreme caution to prevent ingestion.
   Maintenance and aircrew personnel who work on or near running jet engines will not wear
   loose clothing, hats or carry objects that might be sucked in the engine. All objects shall be
   removed from in front of or within intake ducts prior to starting engines. Visiting personnel
   or observers shall be briefed on removing hats and carrying objects near jet engines. Refer to
   paragraph 24.4 for additional information. Maintenance workers will not place hands or
   fingers on auxiliary air inlet doors as they operate automatically and may close. If open,
   access doors shall be secured or removed as they may be forced closed by engine suction.
   24.10.4. Exhaust Blast. Jet engine exhaust blast is hazardous to personnel and property.
   Local procedures shall be established to prevent personnel, vehicles and aircraft passing
   behind engines operating above idle speed or through hazardous jet blast areas IAW
   applicable aircraft TOs. A ground or flight crew member shall be stationed alongside the
   operating engine to warn personnel and traffic to remain clear at least 25 feet in front and 200
   feet to the rear of the aircraft, depending on the aircraft involved or as prescribed IAW
   applicable aircraft TOs and handbooks. A blast fence shall be installed where needed to
   protect personnel and equipment from exhaust blast. Tools, spare parts and other objects
   shall be removed from blast areas before any jet engine is started. Refer to ETL 07-3, Jet
   Engine Thrust Standoff Requirements for Airfield Asphalt Edge Pavements, for mandatory
   standoff distance required to prevent uplift forces from causing catastrophic failure of asphalt
   edge pavements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      393



  24.10.5. Ejection Seats and Canopies. Accidental discharge of ejection seats, cockpit
  canopies and jettisonable hatches (i.e., A-10, B-2, and F-16) is hazardous to workers.
  Extreme heat or unintentional movement of actuating mechanisms can fire the ejection seat
  catapult or canopy remover. The following precautions will reduce accidental seat or canopy
  ejections for aircraft on the ground. Note: Anyone entering a cockpit or flight deck equipped
  with escape system components shall have aircraft cockpit and flight deck familiarization
  training prior to entry IAW AFI 21-101. Exception: C-17 Aircraft, Flotation Equipment
  Deployment Systems (FEDS) – Electro-Environmental workers with task qualification
  training and annual explosive safety training for time change compliance related to FEDS
  meets the intent of paragraphs 24.10.5, 24.10.5.1 and 24.10.5.3.
     24.10.5.1. Normal Procedure. Ground safety pins shall be installed by aircrew or
     maintenance workers immediately after an aircraft is parked and the engine shut down or
     by egress workers after maintenance requiring removal of the pins is complete. Care shall
     be exercised to ensure safety pins are removed before the next flight. Only qualified
     egress maintenance workers will remove or install canopy or ejection seat discharge
     mechanisms. Emergency rescue personnel will train only with ejection seats certified safe
     (disarmed) by a qualified egress technician. FES Flight personnel shall be trained to safe
     (disarm) ejection seats and canopy actuators before removing crew members from
     aircraft. Rescue efforts shall follow TO 00-105E-9, Aerospace Emergency Rescue and
     Mishap Response Information (Emergency Services), procedures. Maintenance workers
     will avoid accidental arming and firing when working near ejection seat catapults and
     ejection seat or canopy remover controls. They will not carry combs, screwdrivers, pens,
     pencils, etc., protruding from pockets or clothing that may cause accidental or inadvertent
     arming and firing of ejection seat or canopy controls. Only qualified egress and munitions
     workers shall be authorized to handle and maintain ejection system explosive items.
     24.10.5.2. Crash Landings. Care shall be exercised to avoid snagging arming and firing
     mechanisms when removing crewmembers from crashed aircraft. Cook-off, inadvertent
     actuation or residual pressure stored in lines and tubes of explosive egress components
     may pose hazards during rescue attempts.
     24.10.5.3. Salvage Operations. Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) workers will ensure
     explosive devices are removed before any aircraft salvage operations begin. Only
     qualified and certified egress workers will remove escape and/or egress system explosive
     components. These items include cartridge-actuated devices (CAD) and propellant-
     actuated devices (PAD), such as initiators, catapults, canopy removers, rocket packs,
     divergence rockets, gas generators, shielded mild detonating cord (SMDC) and flexible
     linear shape charges (FLSC).
     24.10.5.4. Transient Checklists. Transient alert organizations shall develop local
     checklists to ask pilots about explosive egress systems for aircraft not normally processed
     through their installations and shall follow specific TO procedures for aircraft being
     serviced.
  24.10.6. Pressure Testing. Cockpit pressure-testing shall not exceed TO allowed pressures.
  24.10.7. Sharp Edges. Some jet aircraft control surfaces have sharp edges. Mechanics shall
  use caution when working on or near these edges. During prolonged maintenance periods,
 394                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   sharp edges or corners of aircraft parts or equipment shall have suitable protective covers,
   where practical, or tape placed over them and red streamers attached to indicate the danger
   area.
   24.10.8. Entering Tail Pipe. IAW Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, based on the determination
   of the CSPT, workers will evaluate the condition of tail pipes prior to entering, i.e., to inspect
   engine turbine wheel assembly. This evaluation will include an atmospheric test prior to
   entry. If the tail pipe was deemed to be a permit-required confined space, appropriate
   measures shall be taken before entry IAW Chapter 23, including use of a BE approved
   respirator. If the space was deemed non-permit required, the space shall be checked IAW
   Table 23.1 to ensure the space is safe to enter prior to any work being started in the tail pipe.
   A responsible individual shall be positioned adjacent to the tail pipe or entrance of the
   aircraft to prevent anyone entering the cockpit and to maintain communication with the
   person in the tail pipe.
   24.10.9. Handling Hydrazine. Fire fighting and transient maintenance personnel may be
   exposed to hydrazine. Workers shall be trained IAW Chapter 14, Personal Protective
   Equipment (PPE), AFI 90-821, Hazardous Communication, and TO 00-25-172, Ground
   Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding. Training shall be documented IAW AFI
   91-202 and on AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
24.11. Aircraft Cleaning.
   24.11.1. General Requirements. To prevent falls, workers shall not climb or walk on wet
   aircraft surfaces. Separate elevated work platforms and long-handle brushes shall be used to
   the maximum extent possible. If absolutely necessary to walk on aircraft TO designated areas
   during washing, extreme care shall be exercised, and locally designed systems, such as sky-
   lines (horizontal life lines) and personal fall arrest systems, shall be used. Refer to paragraph
   24.16. Workers will wear PPE identified by BE to include, but not limited to, chemical-
   splash goggles, when using brightening agents, caustics, acids, phenolic compounds or other
   chemicals. Only authorized cleaning agents shall be used. Appropriate footwear shall be
   worn to prevent falls from wet surfaces. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional PPE guidance.
   All PPE use, including respirators, shall be coordinated with BE. Refer to AFI 90-821 for
   hazard communication requirements.
       24.11.1.1. Flammable Solvents. Aircraft shall be cleaned with nonflammable nontoxic
       solvents IAW TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention and Control, Aerospace
       and Non-Aerospace Equipment. Flammable solvents may be used only if authorized by
       TOs or other guidance and shall be a coordinated, approved and well-planned operation
       involving the Maintenance Group Commander, or equivalent, and the installation Ground
       Safety office, FES Flight and BE. All potential sources of ignition shall be prohibited
       within 50 feet of the operation and warning signs shall be posted. Suitable auxiliary
       firefighting equipment shall be kept close at hand as determined by the installation FES
       Flight. The aircraft shall be grounded at all times to prevent collection of static charges.
       When an aircraft is washed or cleaned with flammable solvents and thunderstorms are
       within 5 nm or less, the operation shall be suspended unless inside a facility with an
       approved lightning protection system. Refer to paragraph 24.6 for additional information
       on adverse weather requirements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         395



      24.11.1.2. Cleaning Material or Solvent Spills. The installation FES Flight shall be
      notified immediately of any flammable solvent spill and pollution control procedures
      IAW installation spill prevention control and reporting plans.
   24.11.2. Aircraft Cleaning Operations.
      24.11.2.1. Maintenance personnel shall not clean aircraft parts, hangar floors, equipment
      or clothing with unauthorized solvents, e.g., gasoline, diesel, petroleum-based liquids,
      etc. Use approved high flashpoint or nonflammable substances or liquids whenever
      possible. Store flammable liquids IAW Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles. See
      paragraph 24.3.3.4 for additional information on cleaning aircraft parts.
      24.11.2.2. Wiping cloths, oily waste and other flammable materials shall be placed in
      suitable, self-closing metal containers in the work area. At the end of each day or shift,
      these containers shall be emptied or removed to an approved location outside the shop for
      pickup and disposal. Contact the installation Environmental Management office for waste
      disposal guidance. Caution: To prevent spontaneous combustion due to heat buildup, do
      not put soiled rags in sealed plastic bags. Note: Flammable and combustible wastes may
      be stored in vapor tight containers if required by the installation Environmental
      Management office.
      24.11.2.3. Store small amounts of flammable solvents with adequate ventilation and fire
      extinguishers readily available. Keep storage areas cool (55o to 80o F) and free of spark or
      heat-producing equipment. Absorbent material should be available to clean up spills.
      Refer to paragraph 24.15.3.3.1 for additional guidance.
      24.11.2.4. Flammable and toxic vapors are common hazards with solvents. Electrically
      bond containers (metal to metal contact) when transferring flammable solvent.
      24.11.2.5. Safe spill handling materials control the hazard. Vapor absorbent materials
      absorb vapors and flammable liquids so even if an ignition source is present, the spill will
      not burn.
   24.11.3. Fire Control. Use Class B extinguishers for flammable solvents. In no case shall
   water be used. Workers using flammable solvents shall be trained and proficient in
   extinguisher use. Extinguishers shall be sized for possible fires. A gallon of spilled solvent
   can cover 25 to 50 square feet, but a small extinguisher may only extinguish 2 square feet.
   The FES Flight shall be consulted to ensure extinguishers with proper capacity are obtained.
   Workers shall remain vigilant after a fire is extinguished because flammable solvent may still
   be present beneath the extinguishing material. If an ignition source is present, the vapors can
   re-ignite. Safety cans and solvent storage cabinets shall have flash arresters to prevent flame
   from entering the container.
24.12. Aircraft Tire Mounting and Servicing Operations.
   24.12.1. Maintenance workers shall use tire dollies or mechanical devices when mounting,
   servicing or removing heavy aircraft tires. Sufficient personnel are also necessary, in addition
   to mechanical aids, to safely handle heavy tires and wheels. Note: The risk of personal
   injury and equipment damage increases greatly when workers do not use tire cage guards or
   tire inflation equipment properly, i.e., over-inflate a tire, use un-calibrated equipment, etc.
396                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  24.12.2. Tire cages shall be used when inflating tires in the shop to prevent injury to
  workers. Extreme caution shall be used to avoid over-inflating tires. Nitrogen or dry air
  supply lines shall be equipped with regulators to prevent over pressurizing the tire. Consult
  TO 4T-1-3, Inspection, Maintenance Instructions, Storage, and Disposition of Aircraft Tires
  and Inner Tubes, when using a remote tire inflator assembly kit.
  24.12.3. Only authorized safety tire inflation equipment shall be used for flight line or
  hangar tire inflation. The relief valve shall be set at 100 psi (with a 10 percent tolerance) for
  tires with a maximum tire pressure (MTP) under 80 psi. Tires with an MTP over 80 psi shall
  have the relief valve set at 20 psi over the MTP (with a 10 percent tolerance). For pressures
  exceeding 50 psi, inflator equipment servicing hose shall be a minimum of 10 feet in length.
  This allows personnel to be positioned forward or aft of the tire and clear of potential wheel
  failure fragments.
      24.12.3.1. The pressure supply source, especially when using high pressure gas
      cylinders, shall include a pressure reducing regulator set not more than 50 percent over
      the required tire pressure or a maximum inlet pressure of 600 psi, whichever is less.
      24.12.3.2. Only qualified precision measurement equipment laboratory (PMEL)
      personnel will adjust and/or calibrate tire inflation equipment. Applicable equipment TOs
      shall be referenced for time requirements.
  24.12.4. Tire temperatures become more critical on faster and heavier aircraft. Nitrogen gas
  is preferred for inflating tires because oxygen in compressed air reacts with tire rubber at
  high temperatures and pressures. This causes deterioration, decreased tire life, and creates a
  blowout hazard. If compressed air is used, it shall be oil- and water-free. Hose material shall
  be compatible with the servicing agent (air or nitrogen) used. Two types of gaseous nitrogen
  are available in the Air Force supply system: oil-free nitrogen and oil-tolerant nitrogen.
      24.12.4.1. Only oil-free nitrogen, also called water-pumped nitrogen, shall be used to
      inflate aircraft tires. Guidance for portable, nitrogen (converter) supply system cart (PN
      AO40111000) shall be consulted. Warning: Never inflate tires with nitrogen directly
      from supply cylinders.
      24.12.4.2. Use local procedures to ensure oil-tolerant nitrogen, or oil-pumped nitrogen, is
      not used to inflate tires to prevent oil soaking the rubber. If compressed air (a legal
      alternative) is later used to inflate the tire, a combustible mixture will form on contact
      with the oil.
  24.12.5. Aircraft Wheel Removal. Deflation is not required prior to removal if the tire will
  be reinstalled immediately following the maintenance task. All other removal actions require
  deflation prior to tire removal. Refer to TO 4T-1-3 for aircraft wheel removal task
  procedures.
  24.12.6. Employee Training. Supervisors shall ensure workers servicing wheels are trained
  on procedures for each type of wheel serviced and will not allow untrained workers to
  service wheels. See OSHA 3086, Servicing Single Piece and Multi-Piece Rim Wheels, a
  comprehensive           pamphlet           on           servicing      wheels           at
  http://www.osha.gov/Publications/osha3086.pdf, and 29 CFR 1910.177, Servicing Multi-
  piece and Single Piece Rim Wheels, for additional requirements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        397



     24.12.6.1. The supervisor shall ensure each worker demonstrates and maintains the
     ability to service aircraft wheels safely. A worker is considered qualified and trained after
     completing the installation or unit‘s training program.
     24.12.6.2. IAW 29 CFR 1910.177 and applicable TOs, the following tasks are required
     for worker qualification:
         24.12.6.2.1. Deflation and demounting of tires.
         24.12.6.2.2. Inspection and identification of wheel components.
         24.12.6.2.3. Mounting and inflation of tires.
         24.12.6.2.4. Use of tire cages and other tire mounting and servicing equipment.
         24.12.6.2.5. Handling aircraft wheels.
         24.12.6.2.6. Inflation of tire when wheel is mounted on aircraft or during in-shop
         maintenance.
         24.12.6.2.7. Understanding the need to stand outside the trajectory of fragments in
         the event of an explosive separation during or immediately following inflation.
         24.12.6.2.8. Installation and removal of wheels.
         24.12.6.2.9. Use of appropriate PPE, e.g., goggles and/or face shield during tire
         inflation.
  24.12.7. The supervisor shall evaluate each worker‘s ability to perform tasks safely and
  provide additional training as necessary to ensure each worker maintains proficiency.
  24.12.8. Tire Servicing Equipment. The supervisor shall ensure a restraining device is
  available for inflating tires on wheels. The restraining device shall withstand the maximum
  force from a wheel separation at 150 percent of the maximum tire specification pressure for
  the type of wheel being serviced. Restraining devices shall also prevent wheel components
  being thrown outside or beyond the device for any wheel positioned within or behind the
  device. Restraining devices shall be visually inspected prior to use each day and after any
  separation of wheel components or sudden release of contained air. Inspections shall be
  annotated on AFTO Form 244, Industrial/ Support Equipment Record, or MAJCOM Safety
  Office approved substitute. Restraining devices exhibiting defects listed below shall be
  removed from service and an AF Form 979, Danger, tag attached until repaired and re-
  inspected:
     24.12.8.1. Cracks at welds, or cracked or broken components. Validate any suspected
     cracks at welds using NDI methods.
     24.12.8.2. Bent or sprung components from mishandling, abuse, tire explosion or wheel
     separation.
     24.12.8.3. Pitting of components due to corrosion.
     24.12.8.4. Other    structural   damage    which    would    decrease   restraining device
     effectiveness.
 398                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   24.12.9. Accomplish a one-time NDI on all welds on locally manufactured restraining
   devices or commercially procured devices when integrity of welds has not been documented.
   Also, conduct NDI of welds whenever a tire/wheel failure in a restraining device causes
   visible or suspected damage, when a weld is found to be severely rusted or the integrity of a
   weld is in question.
   24.12.10. Hoses shall be inspected periodically and replaced as required.
   24.12.11. Restraining devices requiring structural repair, component replacement or re-
   welding shall be removed from service until certified by the manufacturer or registered
   professional engineer as meeting TO strength requirements.
   24.12.12. The supervisor shall ensure an air line assembly with the following components is
   used for inflating tires:
       24.12.12.1. Specified service chuck.
       24.12.12.2. In-line valve with pressure gauge or pre-settable regulator (low/medium/high
       inflator/deflator kit).
       24.12.12.3. Air hose, at least 10 feet long, between clip-on chuck and in-line valve so
       worker can stand outside fragment trajectory.
   24.12.13. Current charts, TOs or manuals containing instructions for types of wheels being
   serviced shall be available in the service area.
   24.12.14. The supervisor shall ensure only tools recommended in the TO or manual for the
   type of aircraft wheel being serviced are used.
24.13. Flight Line Vehicle Operations.
   24.13.1. General Requirements. Persons assigned flight line or related activities shall be
   knowledgeable of and comply with these requirements. Carelessness, haste and disregard for
   safety standards are primary causes of incidents and near misses, aircraft and vehicle mishaps
   and personnel injuries on the flight line.
   24.13.2. Responsibilities. Supervisors will monitor and evaluate their personnel to ensure
   compliance with this standard, DoD and Air Force directives, installation directives and other
   established guidelines. Refer to AFMAN 24-306 (IP), Manual for the Wheeled Operator,
   AFI 13-213, Airfield Driving, and AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision,
   for additional guidance and information.
       24.13.2.1. Security Forces. The Chief of Security Forces shall monitor flight line vehicle
       operations for compliance with this standard, DoD and Air Force directives, and
       installation directives. Safe driving practices are the responsibility of all personnel who
       work and/or operate a vehicle on the flight line. Security Forces is responsible for
       enforcing safe and secure driving practices and procedures on the flight line. Only
       operators and vehicles designated by the wing commander or Airfield Manager, as
       prescribed in AFMAN 24-306 and AFI 13-213, shall be granted access to the flight line.
       24.13.2.2. Acquisition Management Division. The chief of acquisition management
       (contracting division) shall: ensure contractors understand and comply with regulations,
       and inform Security Forces and airfield management of contractors who need to operate
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          399



     vehicles on or work around the flight line including jobs that may impact airfield
     operations.
     24.13.2.3. Safety. The Ground Safety office shall, in coordination with Airfield
     Management, brief temporary duty (TDY) groups, i.e., exercise participant, inspection
     teams, etc., on driving and conditions peculiar to the installation on-base and off-base
     environment and vehicle operations. The Ground Safety office will coordinate on lesson
     plans and tests for local flight line vehicle operations, as applicable, local directives or
     operating instructions for flight line traffic flow patterns and parking plans, and ensure
     vehicle operator briefings include flight line traffic rules and hazards.
     24.13.2.4. Airfield Management. The Airfield Manager shall ensure eligible personnel
     are trained before granting privileges to drive on installation airfield/flight line; endorse
     the AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency; develop lesson plans and tests for
     installation flight line vehicle operations; train unit Flight line Driving Program Managers
     on flight line driving requirements; ensure training is provided to non-Air Force and
     contractor operators before allowing them to drive on the flight line; provide information
     to train personnel operating vehicles on the installation flight line; brief TDY personnel
     on local flight line procedures, if applicable; and IAW AFI 13-213, develop a program to
     control and identify privately-owned vehicles authorized access to the flight line.
     24.13.2.5. Unit Commanders. Commanders with personnel authorized to operate motor
     vehicles on the flight line will ensure their operators are qualified and trained on the type
     vehicle and task assigned; review individuals‘ AF Form 110, Individual Incident
     Reference Record, to ensure their qualifications before permitting them to operate
     vehicles and/or equipment on the flight line; and ensure unit Vehicle Control Officers
     (VCOs), Vehicle Control NCOs (VCNCOs) and designated flight line driving instructors
     give day and night check rides to new operators before allowing them to drive on flight
     line. Check rides will include routes, limitations, runway and taxiway crossing and other
     local procedures for flight line driving. Additionally, the Commander shall suspend a
     vehicle operator‘s driving privileges if that person develops physical and/or mental
     problems that may impair driving, cause personnel injury or damage to equipment.
  24.13.3. Operating Standards. The following vehicle traffic standards shall be observed
  when vehicles (including motorcycles, mopeds, bicycles or tricycles) are operated on the
  flight line.
     24.13.3.1. Speed Limits. No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of that deemed
     reasonable and prudent for existing traffic, road and weather conditions. Emergency
     vehicles will not automatically assume the right of way. AFMAN 24-306 lists the
     following flight line speed limits: Note: Vehicles responding to Red Balls (emergency
     flight line scenarios), exercises and precautionary landings are not authorized to exceed
     these limits. Refer to AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management,
     and paragraph 24.2.9 for additional guidance on Red Balls.
         24.13.3.1.1. General purpose vehicles – 15 mph.
         24.13.3.1.2. Special purpose vehicles, i.e., tractors, tugs, forklifts, sweepers, etc. – 10
         mph.
400                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         24.13.3.1.3. Vehicles in close proximity to aircraft (within 50 feet) – 5 mph.
         24.13.3.1.4. During reduced visibility or when snow and ice are present on paved
         surfaces, reduce speed to 10 mph maximum. Defer vehicle operation when possible
         and limit to mission essential.
         24.13.3.1.5. Snow and ice removal vehicles will operate at a speed commensurate
         with safety during snow and ice control operations.
         24.13.3.1.6. ―Follow Me‖ vehicles are permitted to exceed the normal 15 mph speed
         limit to accommodate aircraft taxiing speed.
         24.13.3.1.7. During emergencies, all emergency response vehicles, i.e., aerospace
         rescue firefighting equipment, ambulances, Airfield Management and Security
         Forces, may exceed speed limits only with due regard for the safety of persons and
         property.
  24.13.4. Aircraft, Equipment and Trailer Towing. Limit towing speed to 5 miles per hour for
  all aircraft and when towing 2 or more maintenance stands, and 10 miles per hour with one
  stand or equipment with solid wheels and/or castors. Limit tow speed for AGE, such as
  compressors, ground power units, oxygen carts and similar equipment to 15 miles per hour.
  Refer to paragraph 24.15.4 for additional information on AGE. Up to four type B1, B4, B5
  and similar small stands may be towed as two sets of two in tandem on a double hitch or two
  in tandem on a single hitch. Type B3, J7 and similar large stands shall be towed singly on a
  center mounted hitch. Four-wheeled units shall not be towed behind two-wheeled units.
  Large AGE, when towed in tandem, shall not block the driver‘s vision of the last item being
  towed. Safety locking devices or cotter pins shall be used to secure pintle hooks and trailer
  hitches. Vehicle operators will not approach within 50 feet of an aircraft being towed.
  24.13.5. Flight Line Driving.
      24.13.5.1. Private Motor Vehicles (PMV). The operator shall possess a valid state
      driver‘s license, an AF Form 483, with flight line endorsement and authorization (PMV
      pass/cone) from the Airfield Manager. Airfield Management will ensure flight line
      training is provided to contractor personnel requiring flight line access.
      24.13.5.2. Motorcycles. Motorcycles, mopeds or scooters may be operated on the flight
      line. If authorized, PPE IAW AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program,
      shall be worn when operating a motorcycle. No passengers are allowed. The operator
      shall complete a Motorcycle Safety Foundation Course IAW AFI 91-207. Motorcycles
      shall have headlights on at all times, unless shining toward a moving aircraft at night or
      during reduced visibility, when it shall be turned off immediately so the pilot is not
      blinded or night vision affected. Mopeds and scooters will have an operating headlamp
      and front and rear reflectors if authorized for night use.
      24.13.5.3. Bicycles and Tricycles. Bicycle or tricycle operators shall know requirements
      in this chapter and local directives. Tricycles parked on the flight line will have a braking
      device engaged to prevent inadvertent movement. For night use, bicycles and tricycles
      shall be equipped with an operating headlight and reflectors or reflective tape. Bicycles
      and tricycles parked on the flight line at night shall be placed so they will not impede
      aircraft or traffic flow.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          401



     24.13.5.4. Other Vehicles. Vehicles identified in AFI 91-207 include Government
     Vehicles Other (GVO), Low-Speed Vehicles (LSV) and Off-Road Vehicles (ORV). If
     authorized to operate on the flight line, electrical, gas or gasoline-powered GVO, LSV
     and ORVs will follow AFI 91-207 PPE and training requirements, and all rules
     established for general and special purpose vehicles. GVO, LSV and ORVs shall have
     forward and rear lamps if operated at night.
  24.13.6. Entering or Leaving Flight line Driving Areas. All vehicles, except emergency and
  alert vehicles responding to an alert or emergency, shall stop prior to entering the flight line
  and accomplish an FOD check. FOD Check signs shall be positioned at every entrance to
  ramp areas and flight line. This is a mandatory requirement. Note: This may be waived by
  the Installation Commander. Traffic lanes on aircraft parking ramps are normally to the right
  of the aircraft. Unless prevented by local procedures, traffic flow on aircraft parking ramps
  shall be parallel to the noses of parked aircraft with the driver‘s side toward the aircraft.
  Vehicles shall not be driven diagonally across the parking ramp, but at 90-degree angles to
  the driving lanes.
  24.13.7. Vehicle Parking. Vehicles shall not be backed or parked within 25 feet of any
  aircraft, unless authorized for operations such as loading or unloading, servicing or towing. A
  spotter shall be posted when backing a vehicle towards an aircraft. Prepositioned wheel
  chocks shall be used to prevent vehicles backing into aircraft. Prepositioning of chocks
  during backing of tow vehicle to tow bar (for the express purpose of towing the aircraft) is
  not required as long as all requirements of paragraph 24.7 are followed. Vehicle chocks shall
  be constructed IAW Commercial Item Specification A-A-52475 or locally manufactured
  IAW TO 00-25-172.
     24.13.7.1. Unattended vehicles shall be parked with the driver‘s side facing the aircraft
     and so it will not interfere with aircraft being towed or taxied. Ignition shall be turned off;
     keys left in the ignition; and the gear lever put in reverse gear for manual transmissions,
     and in ‗park‘ for automatic transmissions. All vehicles parked and left unattended will
     have brakes set or chocks placed in front of and behind a rear wheel, or one chock placed
     between the tandem wheels of dual (tandem) axle vehicles. Only alert and emergency
     vehicles responding to an alert or emergency are exempt from these requirements. Note:
     AGE towing vehicles may be placed in ―neutral or park‖ with parking brake set and
     engine left running during equipment hitching and unhitching operations. AGE towing
     vehicles must be turned off when the driver seat is vacated for any other purpose.
     24.13.7.2. Wheeled AGE/maintenance equipment shall have brakes set, if available, or
     chocked.
     24.13.7.3. Vehicles shall not be parked or driven less than 25 feet in front or 200 feet
     behind aircraft with running engines, unless prescribed in applicable aircraft handbooks.
     Vehicles parked next to aircraft shall be clear of wingtips and clearly visible to personnel
     in cockpit.
  24.13.8. Passengers in Vehicle. Passengers shall be limited to the designed seating capacity
  of the vehicle during routine operations. This includes pickup trucks and cargo vans with
  passenger seats as well as sedans, station-wagons and buses. When exigent circumstances or
  contingency requirements exceed the capability of available vehicles, commanders may,
402                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  through appropriate written and documented risk assessments and compliance with
  installation/host installation guidelines, determine the appropriate means of transportation for
  existing vehicles. Passengers shall use available seat belts when the vehicle is in motion. If
  deemed operationally necessary by the unit commander to ride in the bed of pickup trucks,
  occupants will sit only on the floor, not on wheel wells, with their backs against the cab and
  remain seated while vehicle is moving (see Note below). Passengers in vans will remain
  seated, keep their arms and legs within the vehicle body, and keep side doors closed while
  the van is moving. Passengers will not ride in doorways or sit on engine covers in metro
  vans/step vans. Door nets shall be used when transporting passengers with rear doors open.
  Panel van and metro vehicle (bread truck) sliding passenger doors may remain open while
  the vehicle is in motion if a cargo net is installed to restrain the passengers. Note: Personnel
  jumping or descending from the bed of pickup and stake bed trucks have caused a large
  number of injuries and the practice of riding in the bed of these type vehicles is highly
  discouraged. However, commanders should identify in writing vehicles approved for
  transporting personnel in the bed of pickup or stake bed vehicles.
  24.13.9. Restricted Visibility or Night Operations. Flashing or parking lights shall be used at
  night when vehicles are temporarily parked on any part of the aircraft ramp. This does not
  apply to vehicles parked in a designated parking area. Refueling and explosive loaded (laden)
  vehicles shall not be operated when visibility is less than 300 feet unless directed by wing or
  installation commander. PMVs and flight line vehicles, except emergency and alert vehicles,
  shall not be operated on the flight line with visibility less than 100 feet. A walking guide with
  a flashing or luminescent wand shall be used during emergency movement of alert vehicles
  when visibility is under 50 feet. Vehicle operators shall ensure headlights do not point toward
  taxiing aircraft or towing operations to prevent blinding aircraft or tow vehicle operators.
  24.13.10. Control Tower Signs. For units based at an Air Force installation, AFVA 11-240,
  Airport Signs and Markings (Figure 24.2), shall be displayed where maintenance and flight-
  related operations take place. Suitable locations include, but are not limited to, maintenance
  work areas, flight operations, flight line buildings frequented by ground and aircrew
  personnel, vehicles operated on Air Force airfields, etc. Refer to AFI 13-213, Airfield
  Driving, for additional guidance. AFVA 11-240 is available at http://www.e-
  publishing.af.mil. AFVA 13-221, Control Tower Light Signals (Figure 24.3), may be used
  in conjunction with AFVA 11-240. Units located at contingency or foreign airfields shall use
  the visual aid (FAA or USAF) that most clearly depicts the actual markings on the airfield.
  Vehicle operators will know and comply with the following signals:
      24.13.10.1. Steady Green Light: ―Clear to cross.‖
      24.13.10.2. Steady Red Light: ―STOP! Vehicle shall not be moved.‖
      24.13.10.3. Flashing Red Light: ―Clear active runway/taxiway.‖
      24.13.10.4. Flashing White Light: ―Return to starting point.‖
      24.13.10.5. Red and Green Light: ―General warning. Exercise extreme caution.‖ Note:
      During alerts and emergency conditions, all non-essential personnel will withdraw to an
      appropriate location IAW installation guidelines, Airfield Management or their Work
      Control Center until the emergency is terminated. Contractor withdrawal due to alerts and
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                        403



      emergency conditions shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by Airfield
      Management.

Figure 24.2. AFVA 11-240, Airport Signs and Markings.
 404                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 24.3. AFVA 13-221, Control Tower Light Signals.




   24.13.11. Taxiing Aircraft. Except for Follow Me vehicles, vehicles shall not be parked in
   front of, driven into the path of taxiing aircraft or driven between a taxiing aircraft and its
   Follow Me guide vehicle or aircraft marshaler. All drivers operating vehicles on taxiways and
   parking ramps shall give way to taxiing aircraft. Vehicles will exit taxiways by the shortest
   route. Only as a last resort will the vehicle be driven off prepared surfaces to ensure adequate
   clearances for aircraft. A FOD check shall be accomplished when the vehicle is back on the
   taxiway.
       24.13.11.1. Vehicle headlights shining towards a moving aircraft at night shall be turned
       off immediately to prevent affecting the pilot‘s night vision and will remain off until the
       aircraft is out of range. However, vehicle parking lights or emergency flashers shall be
       turned on so its position is known. Headlights shall be turned ON prior to moving the
       vehicle. Note: Vehicles with daytime running lights will park in a safe location with
       ignition off, parking brake set and emergency flashers on.
       24.13.11.2. Taxiing aircraft shall be alerted when a vehicle cannot operate under its own
       power. As a minimum, the vehicle operator will leave the vehicle parking lights or
       emergency flashers on during hours of darkness. Vehicles‘ two-way radio shall transmit:
       ―All parties BREAK, BREAK – This is (call sign) with an emergency for Airfield
       Management, Tower and Maintenance Operations Center.‖ Then state the problem and
       vehicle position on the airfield. Operators of other radio-equipped vehicles (security
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        405



     forces, CE, Logistics Readiness, etc.) will contact their control center to relay the
     information to the Airfield Management Dispatcher and tower. For vehicles without a
     radio, stay with the vehicle and try to get attention of the taxiing aircraft.
  24.13.12. Follow Me Vehicles. Follow Me vehicles for guiding aircraft shall be equipped
  with signs, easily visible at night, reading ―Stop‖ and ―Follow Me.‖ They shall have two-way
  radio communication on control tower frequencies. When approaching the parking spot, the
  Follow Me vehicle operator should illuminate the ―Stop‖ signal, move the vehicle from the
  intended path of aircraft travel, and position it laterally — clear of the aircraft wingtip. The
  marshaler, who may be the vehicle operator, will guide the aircraft to the parking spot using
  approved marshaling signals. Follow Me vehicles may exceed the 15 mph flight line speed
  limit when necessary to accommodate the safe taxiing speed of aircraft. Tugs shall not be
  used as Follow Me vehicles. Refer to AFMAN 24-306 (IP), Manual for the Wheeled
  Operator, for additional information on Follow Me vehicles.
  24.13.13. FOD Prevention. Rocks, bolts, screws, trash, nails, etc., may become lodged
  between dual wheels and gravel may stick in tire treads when vehicles are operated off paved
  surfaces. Before entering ramp areas or flight line, except responding emergency and alert
  vehicles, operators will stop, visually check and remove foreign materials from the tires,
  bumpers, pickup beds, tailgate area, etc. FOD Check signs shall be positioned at every
  entrance to ramp areas and flight line. This is a mandatory requirement. Note: This may be
  waived by the Installation Vice Wing Commander. Refer to AFI 21-101, Aircraft and
  Equipment Maintenance Management, AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, and
  AFMAN 24-306 (IP), for additional guidance. Vehicle operators shall ensure all equipment
  on their vehicles is properly stowed and secured and inspect their vehicles for objects that
  could damage aircraft before operating on the airfield.
  24.13.14. Forklift and Hi-Lift Truck Operation Around Aircraft. Forklifts and hi-lift trucks
  are used to move cargo to/from aircraft and for raising/lowering cargo/equipment between
  ground and aircraft. Only licensed drivers shall operate forklifts and hi-lift trucks. Training
  and licensing shall be IAW AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations. Forklift or hi-lift truck
  operators shall not exceed 10 mph on ramps or 5 mph within 50 feet of any aircraft. Hi-lift
  truck operators require special training, a responsibility of the using organization. Refer to
  Chapter 35, Materials Handling Equipment, and AFMAN 91-201 for additional
  information.
     24.13.14.1. Maneuvering Forklifts and Hi-Lift Trucks. A spotter shall assist operators in
     determining safe clearances when maneuvering close to aircraft. Bumper blocks or
     vehicle chocks placed on ramps shall be used to prevent backing into aircraft. Spotters
     shall also assist operators when necessary to back the vehicle. The driver and spotter shall
     be able to communicate at all times. The spotter shall use luminous wands or flashlights
     to relay signals to the hi-lift operator during the night unless supplemental lighting is
     used. Spotters shall be used any time the cargo bed is raised or lowered. Forklifts shall be
     completely stopped before lifting or lowering a load, and forklift drivers shall not raise or
     lower a load while in motion. Forklifts shall never be driven under an aircraft except
     when required by the aircraft involved. When traveling long distances and/or when
     carrying bulky loads, the forklift shall be driven in reverse as the operator‘s field of
     vision is less obstructed. Forks of parked forklifts shall be lowered flat on the ground to
406                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      prevent injury to personnel working or walking in the area. Parked and unattended
      forklifts shall have operating levers placed in neutral, ignition switched off and
      handbrake set.
      24.13.14.2. Crating. Large unwieldy crates shall be equipped with rings for attaching tag
      lines. Tag lines make handling safer and provide a means of securing crates in open
      areas. Tag lines shall be of sufficient length to permit the person holding the rope to stand
      clear of the load and avoid standing under the load.
      24.13.14.3. Stacking. Forklift drivers will not stack empty pallets higher than eye level.
      Pallets stacked on forklift tines higher than eye level cause an unsteady load and are a
      potential source of injury or property damage. Forklift operators will have a spotter
      available when stacking cargo on trailers and 463L (pallet) equipment if vision is
      obstructed.
      24.13.14.4. Lift-Truck Forks. Forklifts shall not be used to tow trailers or push
      equipment unless designed for that operation by the manufacturer and technical data is
      followed. Forklifts shall be equipped with operating horns and lights, when needed for
      safe operation.
      24.13.14.5. Hi-Lift Truck Cargo Bed Hydraulic System. The driver shall completely stop
      the truck before operating the cargo bed hydraulic system. The truck shall be at least five
      (5) feet from the aircraft, before the bed is raised or lowered, to ensure adequate
      clearance.
  24.13.15. Hand Pallet Trucks Inside Aircraft. Hand pallet trucks are hydraulically-operated
  material handling devices used for moving heavy objects inside aircraft. Since hand pallet
  trucks do not have brakes, at least two (2) persons will operate this piece of equipment. 1-
  inch by 12-inch shoring or equivalent protection shall be used to prevent floor damage when
  moving extremely heavy loads inside aircraft. Care shall be taken to avoid damaging aircraft
  ceilings and sidewalls.
  24.13.16. Stowing Cargo on Aircraft. Cargo shall be loaded IAW aircraft loading TOs and
  handbooks to avoid exceeding weight and balance limits.
  24.13.17. Roller Pry Bar Use Inside Aircraft. When using roller pry bars to position heavy
  cargo inside aircraft, personnel shall be careful not to exceed maximum allowable floor
  strengths.
  24.13.18. Floor Load. Consult aircraft TOs to determine maximum allowable floor loads.
  Shoring shall be used when a load is expected to exceed the published limit.
  24.13.19. K-loaders and Roller-Equipped Trailers Around Aircraft. Guides/spotters shall
  assist the operator when approaching an aircraft to load or off-load cargo. The operator shall
  bring the loader to a complete stop, set the brakes and place the cab transmission selector in
  neutral before operating the cargo deck hydraulic system. To ensure adequate clearance, the
  loader shall be stopped or moved at least five (5) feet from the aircraft for preliminary deck
  alignment using the hydraulic system. The operator shall maintain a 5 to 8-inch clearance
  between the rubber bumpers and the aircraft for further deck adjustments during on- or off-
  loading.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        407



   24.13.20. Air Cargo Storing and Warehousing. Storage and warehousing of air cargo is
   similar to normal warehousing procedures. General safety standards for warehousing also
   apply to air cargo storage. Refer to Chapter 35 for additional information.
   24.13.21. Tractor Operations. Tractors with small flatbed warehousing trailers and airlift
   palletized cargo shall not exceed five (5) mph. All tractor-trailer combinations shall be
   equipped with lights when operating at night or during low visibility. Signs reading ―Slow
   Moving Vehicle‖ or the triangular slow moving vehicle emblem shall be displayed on these
   vehicles. Passengers shall not be allowed to ride on tractors unless adequate seats are
   installed.
      24.13.21.1. Trailers. No more than four (4) trailers, loaded or empty, shall be pulled by
      any tractor. To avoid jackknifing, trailer trains shall be arranged with the most heavily
      loaded trailer next to the towing vehicle, the next heaviest second in line, etc. Exception:
      Six A/M-3H-6 palletized cargo trailers may be moved behind one prime mover.
      24.13.21.2. Couplings. Tractor operators shall ensure couplings are secure before
      moving a trailer or train. Pintle assemblies and towing connections shall be secured with
      a pintle hook safety locking device or cotter pin that will positively lock towing
      connections.
   24.13.22. Deicing Operations. Conduct deicing operations IAW TO 42C-1-2, Anti-icing,
   Deicing and Defrosting of Parked Aircraft, and aircraft-specific deicing TO guidance. Also,
   only licensed drivers shall operate deicing trucks. Deicing basket operators shall act as
   vehicle spotter and remain in constant radio or interphone contact with the driver throughout
   the deicing operation. Basket operators shall continually monitor clearances. A ground
   spotter shall be used if the basket operator cannot adequately monitor clearances. Pre-
   position chocks when using a deicer truck to perform maintenance and inspections, when
   backing towards aircraft or as directed by local procedures or aircraft TOs.
24.14. Aircraft Hangar Operations.
   24.14.1. Hangaring Aircraft. The Maintenance Group Commander or equivalent shall ensure
   detailed local operating procedures for hangaring aircraft, including safety precautions, are
   prepared and coordinated with the installation Ground Safety Office and FES Flight. Include
   installation Weapons Safety Office coordination if hangaring weapons-loaded aircraft.
   24.14.2. Aircraft Hangar, Shelter and Dock Facility Design Guidance. Consult NFPA 70,
   Article 513, Aircraft Hangars, NFPA 409, Standard on Aircraft Hangars, NFPA 410,
   Standard on Aircraft Maintenance, Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire
   Protection Engineering for Facilities, and associated engineering technical letters (ETL) for
   detailed design guidance. ETLs supplement UFC 3-600-01. Compliance with ETLs is
   required per AFI 32-1023, Designing and Constructing Military Construction Projects. ETLs
   take precedence in conflicts with national fire codes, building codes or UFC 3-600-01. The
   installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE will evaluate facilities, equipment,
   processes, etc., and provide recommendations to ensure safety, fire and health hazards are
   properly mitigated and/or controlled.
      24.14.2.1. Fixed electrical equipment approved for Class I, Division 1 locations may be
      used in Class I, Division 2 locations of the same class and compatibility group.
408                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      Equipment not meeting these guidelines shall be de-energized or disabled and locked out
      until special operations are complete and hazardous conditions permanently eliminated.
      Refer to paragraph 24.3.3.1 for additional guidance.
      24.14.2.2. Keep portable electrical equipment out of hangars during special hazardous
      procedures unless it meets requirements in paragraph 24.14.2.1 and is marked
      accordingly.
  24.14.3. All openings from occupied areas into hangars shall be protected by ramps, curbs or
  drains to prevent entry of liquids. All areas normally occupied by personnel shall have an exit
  route to the outside of the hangar that does not require entering locations occupied by
  aircraft. Refer to NFPA 409 for additional information. Each means of egress from
  mezzanines shall lead directly to a properly enclosed stairwell, directly to the exterior, or to
  outside stairs.
  24.14.4. Hangar, Nose Dock and Shelter Door Design and Operation Guidance. Eliminate
  hazards through engineering design or redesign. Install barriers such as chains and fencing to
  restrict personnel from hazardous areas. Ensure mechanical safeguards are in place such as
  installing limit switches and doorstops where necessary to limit unnecessary door travel.
  Doors not in compliance shall be assigned an RAC by the installation Ground Safety office.
  A JSA shall be performed and appropriate controls put in place until doors are compliant.
      24.14.4.1. Identification. Establish a clear zone, i.e., five (5) feet if space allows, around
      all hazardous areas. Hazardous areas include crush and pinch points between structural
      beams and hangar doors. Highlight hazardous areas such as crush and pinch points that
      cannot be eliminated by engineering controls or mechanical safeguards with colored paint
      and signs. Mark these clear zones with solid yellow or yellow and black stripes IAW
      Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial
      Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders.
      24.14.4.2. All sides visible when approaching a hazard area shall have a 14 by 20 inch or
      larger ―DANGER‖ sign painted on the floor just outside the clear zone IAW Figure 29.1
      and Table 29.3. Place the sign so it can be read when approaching the hazard area. The
      word ―DANGER‖ shall be printed on top with white letters with a message below stating:
      ―HAZARDOUS AREA – STAND CLEAR DURING DOOR OPERATIONS.‖
      24.14.4.3. Place a ―DANGER‖ sign next to all hangar door controls. Sign size (at least 7
      by 10 inches) and lettering shall be IAW Figure 29.1 and Table 29.3. The word
      ―DANGER‖ shall be printed on top in white letters with a message below stating:
      ―ONLY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED BY THE SQUADRON
      COMMANDER MAY OPERATE HANGAR DOORS.‖ The bottom of the sign shall
      reference paragraph 24.14.8.3.
      24.14.4.4. Safety signs shall be printed in English and the predominant language of non-
      English reading workers. Established symbols should also be considered. Workers unable
      to read posted signs shall be informed of hazardous areas and instructions printed on the
      signs.
  24.14.5. Training. Workers who routinely work in hangars or require access through hangar
  doors shall receive Hangar Door Awareness Training, both an initial training program and
  annual refresher course. Courses shall include, at a minimum, door hazards, emergency
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      409



  procedures (including manual door operation) and safe operation. Training shall be
  documented on worker‘s AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record (or equivalent
  product), AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, or MAJCOM authorized
  substitute (paper or electronic format acceptable).
  24.14.6. Operating Condition. Hangar doors shall be maintained in safe working condition.
  Door paths shall be free of obstructions with door tracks and track-ways in good condition
  and free of debris. A visual inspection shall be made prior to operation and discrepancies
  corrected before operation. Hangar doors shall be on a preventative maintenance schedule
  and only qualified workers shall perform hangar door maintenance.
  24.14.7. Door Pockets. Hangar door pockets and recessed areas shall not be used for storage
  and shall be adequately illuminated so the door operator can see any obstructions or
  personnel in the door path.
  24.14.8. Powered Hangar Doors:
     24.14.8.1. Alarm/Warning Lights. To prevent confusion, powered hangar doors shall
     have an alarm device with a sound distinguishable from the facility fire alarm and audible
     above normal noise levels. The warning device shall automatically signal at least 5
     seconds before any door section movement, continuously while the door is operated and
     shall reset immediately after movement stops. Additionally, warning lights are required
     in high noise areas if the audible alarm is difficult to hear, but use caution to avoid
     stroboscopic effects.
     24.14.8.2. Door Controls. Controls shall not place the operator in harm‘s way. Controls
     shall be installed where they prevent the operator entering hazardous areas and shall
     provide the operator a clear view of door travel. The door shall stop movement if the
     operator removes pressure on the door switch. For all center door switch operations, the
     word ―OPEN‖ shall be placed at the top position and the switches shall be wired so the
     doors open when ―OPEN‖ is selected. A hinged cover or other device shall be installed
     over the ―CLOSE‖ switch or button to prevent inadvertent activation. Fold-up,
     counterbalanced and similar doors shall have control switches located with a clear view
     of the door opening. Where feasible, place limit switches in appropriate locations to keep
     the operator away from hazardous areas. Also see Air Force design criteria or equivalent
     Air Force-approved engineering guidance.
         24.14.8.2.1. All markings on or near controls and doors shall be easily understood
         and excessive markings avoided to eliminate confusion.
         24.14.8.2.2. Directional arrows shall be present and understandable. Luminescent or
         reflective directional arrows shall be placed adjacent to each switch and on horizontal
         sliding doors to indicate direction of door travel for each corresponding switch.
     24.14.8.3. Only qualified personnel, approved by the squadron commander or designated
     representative, shall be authorized to operate hangar doors. Operators shall be thoroughly
     familiar with operating instructions and precautions necessary for safe operation. Written
     operating procedures outlining all safety precautions to operate the doors shall be posted
     next to all operating controls. Qualified personnel will be documented in writing by the
     squadron commander or designated representative.
410                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      24.14.8.4. Overhead hangar doors shall be fully opened before moving aircraft through
      the door entrance. Horizontal sliding doors shall be opened to permit a minimum 10-foot
      clearance at each wingtip. If hangar construction does not permit such clearance, the
      doors shall be opened to the maximum limit. Wing walkers shall be used when an aircraft
      is placed in a hangar. (Also see paragraph 24.7.2.5) Under normal conditions, powered
      hangar or shelter doors shall be opened at least 10 feet. For special operations, such as
      during extreme weather conditions, the door may be opened less than 10 feet only if the
      door control switch is locked off or out until the door can be opened to 10 feet or more, or
      be closed. Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), for
      lockout requirements.
      24.14.8.5. Personnel Access Doors. Personnel shall not enter through a personnel door
      while the hangar door is moving. Hangar doors with personnel access doors shall have
      safety switches installed to prevent inadvertent entry while the door is moving.
      24.14.8.6. Signs. Where hazards cannot be eliminated, place danger/caution/warning
      signs describing the hazardous condition in conspicuous locations IAW Chapter 29.
      24.14.8.7. Operational Checkout of Doors and Safety Features. Facility managers shall
      conduct monthly inspections of hangar door operational and safety features. CE and
      Airfield Management shall be notified immediately of any discrepancies.
  24.14.9. Manual and Roll-up Hangar Doors. Manual hangar doors shall be maintained in
  good operating condition with door tracks free of debris and obstructions to allow smooth
  operation. Operators shall conduct a visual inspection of door path and track-way and correct
  any discrepancies before operating door. Individuals shall remain clear of door path while
  door is in motion. Hangar auxiliary service roll-up doors, to include tow vehicle exit doors,
  shall meet the following requirements:
      24.14.9.1. Be able to open a minimum of 8 feet or 70 percent of maximum opening
      height.
      24.14.9.2. Crush sensor on the bottom of the door shall be installed and operational.
      24.14.9.3. Controls for the door shall be located so there is an unobstructed view during
      door operation.
      24.14.9.4. Open and close motion shall be no faster than nine (9) inches per second.
      24.14.9.5. Prior to entering or exiting the hangar with a vehicle through these doors,
      vehicle drivers will sound their horn to alert personnel.
      24.14.9.6. Motion alarm will sound on the closing cycle of the door.
  24.14.10. Clear Space Requirements Around Hangars. Maintain a clear zone of at least 50
  feet around all sides of a hangar, shelter or nose dock. Do not store or park aircraft, position
  concentrations of combustible materials or erect buildings of any kind within the clear zone.
  Refer to NFPA 409 for additional information.
  24.14.11. Vehicle Operations. Vehicles pose a traffic hazard and an ignition source for fuel
  vapors from aircraft fuel vents or a fuel spill. The Maintenance Group Commander or
  equivalent shall ensure local procedures are established to control these hazards. While Air
  Force general or special purpose vehicles do not require spark arresters, vehicle ignition and
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        411



  power systems are not designed for operation in hazardous atmospheres and shall not be
  driven within 25 feet of fuel spills. Also, vehicles or equipment with metal wheels or studded
  tires may be prohibited from operations in hangars. Vehicles shall not be parked unattended
  in front of hangar doors while aircraft are parked inside. When mission requirements or
  weather conditions create a need to park vehicles inside hangars, a plan for an isolated
  parking area shall be developed and approved by the Maintenance Group Commander or
  equivalent in coordination with the installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE.
  This special parking area shall be outside of any potential hazard area and ventilated as
  required by the BE OEH risk assessment. Traffic patterns shall be separated from parked
  aircraft. Note: Vehicles shall not be parked unattended in front of hangar doors if aircraft are
  in that hangar bay. Vehicles may be parked in front of any hangar door that is not used for
  the egress or ingress of aircraft operations.
  24.14.12. Heaters. Combustion heaters installed in aircraft shall not be operated in a hangar.
  Portable engine and cabin heaters shall be removed and stored immediately after each use or
  when no longer required. Engine and shelter heaters shall be placed as far from the aircraft as
  ducting permits. No portable heater shall be left operating unattended. Only heaters approved
  for operation inside hangars and that do not give off unacceptable levels of carbon monoxide
  (CO) shall be used. Heaters and the processes for which they are used shall be evaluated by
  BE to ensure adequate ventilation is provided and that health threats (e.g., CO) are
  effectively controlled (e.g., CO alarms are installed) to prevent harmful exposures.
  24.14.13. Electric Wiring, Power Cords and Maintenance. Temporary or makeshift wiring in
  hangars is prohibited. Only properly installed and maintained service extensions shall be
  used. Overloading electric circuits shall be avoided. All hangar electrical systems and
  subsystems shall be protected by circuit breakers or switches with lockout capabilities and
  shall be de-energized and locked out prior to beginning maintenance. Refer to Chapter 21,
  Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout),for additional information. Portable lamps
  shall have three wire grounded cords long enough for the task. All electric cords shall be
  inspected before each use and repaired or replaced as necessary. Wall receptacles of different
  voltages and frequencies shall be configured as required by NFPA 70, National Electric
  Code. Metal ladders or stands shall not be used when servicing electrical equipment and
  systems. All cables/cords shall be de-energized (turned off), disconnected and stored when
  not in use. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, and UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, O &
  M, for additional information.
  24.14.14. Ground Power Generators. Generators shall not be positioned within 10 feet of
  aircraft fuel system vents. Generator design shall ensure all electrical equipment, sparking
  contacts, hot surfaces and other possible ignition sources are at least 18 inches above floor
  level. Generators shall not be refueled inside hangars. Place engine powered equipment so
  the exhaust does not pose a hazard to workers.
  24.14.15. Aircraft Emergency Removal. The aircraft maintenance officer, designated by the
  Maintenance Group Commander or equivalent, shall establish emergency procedures to
  remove aircraft from hangars in case of fire, severe weather or other hazards. Workers shall
  be trained on emergency procedures to eliminate confusion and ensure timely evacuation of
  aircraft. Snatch blocks and/or harnesses laid out on hangar floors shall be attached to the
  aircraft when in-progress work permits.
 412                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   24.14.16. Conduct aircraft refueling and defueling operations in facilities designated and
   approved for aircraft fuel system maintenance (fuel cell repair) operations. Refer to TO 1-1-
   3, Inspection and Repair of Aircraft Integral Tank and Fuel Cells, for aircraft fuel system
   maintenance facility requirements. For operations other than aircraft fuel systems
   maintenance, aircraft shall only be fueled or defueled in facilities approved through a System
   Safety Engineering Analysis (SSEA) conducted IAW instructions in TO 00-25-172, Ground
   Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding. SSEA-approved facilities include TAB
   VEE shelters, modified TAB VEE, 2nd and 3rd generation aircraft shelters, flow-through
   revetments and B-2 maintenance facilities at Whiteman AFB, MO.
24.15. Aircraft Shop and Flight Line Maintenance Operations.
   24.15.1. General Requirements. Plan layout of aircraft shops and the flight line operations
   and facilities in relation to lighting, ventilation, aisle way and work space for safe and
   efficient production. Provide mechanical safeguards to prevent injury from equipment failure
   or unsafe use. Locate hazardous operations in isolated areas less likely to endanger workers.
   Shop supervisors shall brief aircraft shop and the flight line workers on hazards of poor
   housekeeping, personal safety, occupational health, shop machinery, loose clothes and finger
   rings.
       24.15.1.1. Machine Safeguarding and Shop Layout. Machinery shall be procured with
       built-in safeguards for operator protection without interfering with normal equipment
       operation. Suitable enclosures or barricades shall be installed on unguarded machinery or
       power-transmission equipment. Firmly secure machines and equipment to floors, bases or
       stands located so the operator need not stand in an aisle. Provide the operator sufficient
       space to handle materials and conduct routine job and maintenance tasks, including
       cleaning and housekeeping, without interfering with other operations. Refer to Chapter
       18, Machinery, and Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, for additional information.
       24.15.1.2. Tool Safety. Unsafe use of hand and power tools can injure workers or
       damage equipment. Supervisors shall enforce strict tool control procedures. Use of
       personally owned hand and power tools shall be prohibited. Tools shall be kept in
       suitable containers when not in use. Appropriate PPE, such as goggles, face shields, hard
       hats, gloves, respirators and safety-toe shoes, shall be provided to workers and use
       enforced. Refer to TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, and
       TO 32-1-2, Use of Hand Tools (International Business Machines), and paragraph 24.15.8
       for battery-powered tool use.
       24.15.1.3. Compressed Air Systems. Workers shall wear appropriate PPE, such as gloves
       and wrap-around face shields or goggles, when using compressed air for cleaning. All
       shop and aircraft maintenance personnel authorized to use air compressors shall be
       trained in operation and maintenance of air compressors. Compressed air for general
       cleaning purposes shall be limited to less than 30 psi. Effective chip guarding shall be
       provided and have a finger-actuated press (on)/release (off) control. Compressed air shall
       not be used for cleaning benches, floors, work areas, aircraft interiors, clothing or
       exposed body surfaces. Aircraft pitot-static systems shall not be cleaned with compressed
       air to prevent instrument diaphragm damage. Refer to paragraph 24.2.5 for additional
       information on cleaning with compressed air.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     413



     24.15.1.4. Compressed Gases. Compressed gas cylinders, full or empty, shall be handled
     with care at all times. When not in use, caps shall be placed over the valves and the
     cylinder secured. All compressed gas cylinders shall be stored in their compatibility
     groups and not co-mingled. Flammable gases, such as acetylene, shall be stored
     separately and in an upright position. Storage areas shall be clean and dry to prevent
     corrosion and away from heat sources and oxygen. Only approved regulators with anti-
     flashback devices shall be used with flammable compressed gases. Refer to TO 42B-5-1-
     2, Gas Cylinders (Storage Type) – Use, Handling, and Maintenance, for additional
     information.
     24.15.1.5. Housekeeping. Floors shall be cleaned at all times to provide safe walking and
     working surfaces. Spills shall be cleaned as they occur. Electrical cords and air hoses
     shall be stored when not in use. All flammables and combustibles shall be properly stored
     or removed from the shop and disposed of.
     24.15.1.6. Personal Safety. Loose fitting clothing or other apparel that may be caught in
     moving machinery shall not be worn. Finger rings shall not be worn when they may catch
     on equipment or a vehicle while performing job tasks. Conductive articles of jewelry and
     clothing such as watchbands, bracelets, rings, key chains, necklaces, metalized aprons,
     cloth with conductive thread, metal headgear or metal frame glasses, shall not be worn
     when they present an electrical hazard from contact with exposed live parts.
     24.15.1.7. Occupational Health. Aircraft maintenance operations on the flight line, in
     shops, aircraft shelters, hangars and maintenance facilities pose many chemical and
     physical hazards. These hazards shall be evaluated, the level of risk established and
     controls incorporated where necessary. AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental
     Health Program, provides guidance for these evaluations. Physical hazards, such as high
     noise levels, shall be evaluated for design or administrative changes to abate the hazard,
     e.g., engineering controls and administrative controls. Where administrative and
     engineering controls are not feasible to implement or adequate to control the exposure,
     the unit will provide BE-approved PPE to the workers and ensure they comply with the
     care and the use of such PPE. Work with chemicals may require additional ventilation,
     the use of PPE or a change in process to protect exposed workers. A reevaluation shall be
     performed if a process is changed, altered or new chemicals are introduced after the
     initial evaluation and abatement actions. BE performs these evaluations upon request.
     However, the functional manager or supervisor shall contact BE to arrange an evaluation
     if a potential health hazard is identified or if a process changes.
  24.15.2. Aircraft Electrical System Maintenance. Potential hazards involving aircraft
  electrical maintenance tasks include overloading, poor electrical contacts and wiring shorts.
     24.15.2.1. Electrical systems shall be de-energized whenever possible. If the approved
     procedure requires work on an energized circuit, approved technical data or
     manufacturer‘s instructions and 29 CFR 1910.333. shall be followed and other
     maintenance personnel informed of the actions. If work is done on energized circuits of
     50 volts or more, arc flash protection must be worn. Refer to paragraph 14.4.8.3 for
     additional guidance. If de-energized, approved procedures shall be strictly followed. For
     on-equipment aircraft maintenance, the AF Form 1492, Warning Tag, shall be used to
414                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      flag a condition that could cause damage or injury if ignored. Warning tags shall be used
      during maintenance actions as required by applicable technical data and/or local
      procedures. Refer to AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, for
      additional guidance. Do not use the AF Form 979, Danger Tag, for on-equipment
      aircraft maintenance. The AF Form 979 shall only be used when an immediate hazard
      exists and specific precautions are required to protect personnel or property or as required
      by TOs, instructions or other directed requirements. Tags shall be placed on damaged
      equipment to be taken out of service and sent to the repair shop. To reduce the probability
      of internal electrical shorts, aircraft wiring, including wire bundles, shall be secured to
      prevent scraping and chafing. Electrical components shall be bench-tested in a properly
      designed shop. Testing of electrical systems or equipment while installed on the aircraft
      shall be held to a minimum.
      24.15.2.2. If a circuit breaker (CB) opens (pops) during maintenance on the aircraft, the
      popped CB shall not be reset without following specific guidance in the applicable
      aircraft system TO and the cause is determined. An unexpected popped CB may result
      from an overload or ground fault. A popped fuel system CB shall not be reset without
      following specific guidance in aircraft system TOs.
      24.15.2.3. Electrical components and systems shall be de-energized and isolated from
      other energized circuits or power sources during cleaning operations.
  24.15.3. Aircraft Painting and Paint Removal Operations. There are many safety and health
  hazards associated with painting and paint removal operations. Spray painting an entire
  aircraft is permitted only in hangars designed for the purpose. Refer to Chapter 28, Interior
  Spray Finishing, NFPA 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance, and NFPA 33, Spray
  Application Using Flammable or Combustible Materials, for additional information.
      24.15.3.1. General Safety.
         24.15.3.1.1. Fire. Painting and paint mixing operations, and paint and thinner storage,
         shall be conducted in areas or facilities free from ignition sources. Quantities of
         combustible materials stored in hangars and shops shall be minimized. Only approved
         cabinets (paragraph 22.5.3) with self-closing doors shall be used when incidental
         storage of small amounts of paints and thinners is required in a facility. Dispose of
         masking materials, paper and soiled rags in self-closing containers which shall be
         emptied or removed to an approved location outside the shop for pickup and disposal
         at the end of each day or shift. Contact the installation Environmental Management
         office for waste disposal guidance. Spills shall be cleaned as they occur.
         24.15.3.1.2. Toxicity. Whenever possible, painting shall be done in well-ventilated
         rooms or booths that have been evaluated and approved for use by BE. Workers
         painting outside their areas shall obtain clearance from BE and the Ground Safety
         office. Personnel engaged in painting and paint removal will wear protective clothing,
         respiratory devices (if required), and appropriate face, eye and hand protection.
         Painting tasks using polyurethane or other chemical resistant coatings shall only be
         done after a thorough evaluation of the facility, equipment and procedures by BE,
         Ground Safety office and FES Flight. All painting operations shall be completed IAW
         29 CFR 1910.107., Spray Finishing Using Flammable and Combustible Materials,
         and Chapter 28. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance on PPE requirements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    415



        24.15.3.1.3. Mechanical. Spray-painting equipment shall be kept clean and well
        maintained. Pressure hoses shall be inspected for excessive wear and replaced as
        necessary. To prevent tripping hazards, hoses shall be properly stored when not in
        use. Workstands and/or scaffolds shall be sized to permit reasonable ease and comfort
        while painting. Spray painting air pressure hoses must have fittings that are
        incompatible with breathing air hoses as required by AFOSH Standard 48-137,
        Respiratory Protection Program. Refer to Chapter 16, Mobile Elevating Work
        Platforms, for additional information on scaffolding. Warning: Never point high-
        pressure paint nozzles at any body part or another person.
        24.15.3.1.4. Sanding, Blasting and Paint Stripping Operations. These operations
        produce inhalation hazards and shall be evaluated by BE to ensure workers are
        protected and proper controls are identified and provided.
     24.15.3.2. Operational Requirements. Use the minimum amount of flammable or toxic
     paints or solvents needed. All materials shall be properly identified and material safety
     data sheets (MSDS) shall be immediately accessible (via electronic or hard copy format)
     IAW AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, paragraph 2.5.1.
        24.15.3.2.1. Cleaning, preparing and painting major aircraft assemblies and
        subassemblies, which are not removable, may be performed in any hangar meeting
        requirements of NFPA 70, National Electric Code, NFPA 409, Standard on Aircraft
        Hangars, and NFPA 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance. These procedures shall
        be approved by the Maintenance Group Commander or equivalent in coordination
        with the installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE. No concurrent
        hazardous operations shall be conducted within 50 feet of major cleaning, painting or
        paint removal operations. The work area shall be inspected prior to start of paint
        touchup operations to eliminate sources of ignition. Hazard-free work conditions shall
        be maintained during the entire work period. No food shall be brought into painting,
        cleaning or paint removal work areas. Workers performing painting tasks shall wash
        hands thoroughly before eating. Refer to Chapter 28, and NFPA 33 for additional
        information.
        24.15.3.2.2. A hangar‘s general ventilation may be supplemented by opening hangar
        doors (not less than 10 feet) to provide additional air movement. This may help
        prevent flammable vapor concentrations exceeding 20 percent lower explosive limit
        (LEL), especially at floor level, in pits and drains. Note: If hangar doors are opened
        less than 10 feet due to severe weather conditions, such as extreme cold, the door‘s
        main electrical power switch shall be locked out (OFF) and remain locked out until
        the door is either opened more than 10 feet or closed. Forced air ventilation shall be
        used if these actions do not achieve the desired results. This would be considered a
        service/administrative lockout condition IAW Chapter 21 information on locking out
        door controls and service/administrative lockout and tagout.
        24.15.3.2.3. Fixed electrical equipment shall conform to the NEC, Article 513,
        Aircraft Hangars. General illumination lighting and other equipment shall not be in
        range of any flammable sprays or liquids or overspray areas. Unless approved for
416                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         Class I, Group D hazardous locations, electrical equipment shall be removed from the
         area.
         24.15.3.2.4. Use of heat lamps to accelerate drying of painted surfaces shall be
         prohibited unless part of an approved drying booth or enclosure IAW NFPA 33.
         Nozzles used to spray cleaning or paint removal agents under pressure shall
         automatically self-close when released by the operator.
         24.15.3.2.5. Aircraft electrical systems shall be de-energized during cleaning,
         painting and paint removal operations. Exception: When aircraft power is required
         for concurrent operations, all electrical equipment exposed to flammable or
         combustible liquids or vapors shall be de-energized to avoid ignition from arcs, faults
         or hot surfaces.
         24.15.3.2.6. Ramp or flight line areas used for maintenance procedures shall be
         designated as servicing areas not open to public access. Sufficient clearance shall be
         maintained to avoid hazards to adjacent aircraft or structures and to ensure access by
         firefighting equipment. Aircraft being worked on shall be isolated from aircraft taxi
         and tow routes.
         24.15.3.2.7. Painting, paint removal and associated clean-up operations may generate
         hazardous wastes. These operations shall be evaluated by BE and Environmental
         Management office IAW AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, to ensure wastes are
         characterized, controlled, handled and properly disposed of.
      24.15.3.3. Control of Flammable and Combustible Materials. Storage of more than one
      day‘s use of paints, flammable thinners and solvents shall be located in a separate
      building or segregated from aircraft maintenance and servicing hangars by a fire partition
      with openings protected by approved fire doors. See NFPA 30, Flammable and
      Combustible Liquids Code, for additional guidance.
         24.15.3.3.1. Only a one day supply of paints and flammable solvents shall be
         maintained in a hangar. These items shall be in approved, marked containers isolated
         from other operations. Dispensing drums, when essential, shall be equipped with
         positive acting pumps and pressure relief fittings, drip pans and static bonding clamps
         and cables. Drums shall not be pressurized to dispense these products. Flammable
         solvents shall not be dispensed from open containers. Note: A day‘s supply,
         generally 1 to 10 gallons depending on amount used during the shift or work day, is
         considered a small amount. If operations involve more than one shift, each shift can
         replenish its paints and solvents as needed, but the quantity on hand shall not exceed a
         day‘s supply.
         24.15.3.3.2. Petroleum distillate used as a dry cleaning solvent and other solvent
         cleaners, such as mineral spirits, aliphatic naptha, aromatic naptha, trichloroethylene,
         xylene, methyl ethyl ketone and other ketone-based thinners, are not compatible with
         oxygen and shall not be used near aircraft oxygen systems. These restrictions also
         apply to storage areas.
      24.15.3.4. Fire Extinguishers. Fire extinguishers shall be available IAW TO 00-25-172
      and other applicable technical data. For operations not addressed, fire extinguishers shall
      comply with NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers (current edition).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      417



     Portable dry chemical or equivalent fire extinguishers shall be placed within 25 feet of
     the aircraft during cleaning, painting or paint removal operations. The FES Flight will
     assist the using organization in selection of size and type of extinguishers to be used.
  24.15.4. Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE). Operators shall be familiar with operating
  instructions for equipment they use, including emergency shutdown, other precautionary
  measures and use of fire extinguishers. Operators shall review maintenance records and
  inspect equipment for leaks, damage or malfunction before operation. Refer to paragraph
  24.13 for guidance on vehicle operations on the flight line, in hangars and AGE support
  activities. AGE equipment shall not be left unattended while running, unless specifically
  designed for unattended operation. Contact the installation AGE Maintenance Shop for
  further guidance. Warning: Danger Area. Personnel shall not climb inside combustion
  powered AGE (i.e., light carts) as the enclosure may contain fatal levels of carbon monoxide.
     24.15.4.1. Towing AGE. Refer to paragraph 24.13.4 for additional guidance. Do not tow
     compressors, ground power units, oxygen carts and similar equipment using general
     purpose vehicles unless equipped with a pintle hook attachment with proper rated load
     capacity (which shall be marked on the pintle hook and stated in the AF Form 1800) to
     tow AGE. Pintle hooks shall be closed and a cotter-pin or other locking device used
     during towing operations. Safety chains are not required to tow AGE. A maximum of
     eight (8) small AGE units may be towed, provided:
         24.15.4.1.1. Combined load does not exceed rated load capacity of tow vehicle.
         24.15.4.1.2. Tandem loads do not exceed load capacities of the equipment.
         24.15.4.1.3. Loads, regardless of the number of units being towed, shall be kept
         symmetrical. If towing one unit, it shall be towed on the center pintle hook. When
         towing two units, the preferred method is to use both outside pintle hooks. When
         towing more than two units simultaneously, they shall be distributed as evenly as
         possible on each of the two outer pintle hooks. Refer to the appropriate vehicle
         technical data to determine load ratings.
     24.15.4.2. Ground Power Units. When refueling/defueling aircraft, ground power
     generator sets and converter and rectifier units shall be positioned IAW TO 00-25-172,
     Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding. These units shall not be
     placed less than 10 feet from any aircraft fuel vent or under wing surfaces. Do not stretch
     cables, which strains the cables and connectors, when positioning power units. Refer to
     NFPA 407, Aircraft Fuel Servicing, for additional information. All cables shall be de-
     energized (turned off), disconnected from aircraft and ensure water does not enter the
     connection end of the cable. Warning: Enclosures of combustion powered AGE may
     contain carbon monoxide or an oxygen deficient atmosphere and are not suitable for
     human occupancy.
         24.15.4.2.1. Engine-driven generators shall not be refueled inside maintenance shops.
         24.15.4.2.2. Output contacts shall be energized (turned on) only after the connector is
         installed in the aircraft receptacle and de-energized (turned off) before disconnecting
         the connector from the aircraft.
418                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      24.15.4.3. Compressed Gases. Nitrogen and freon displace oxygen in air and shall be
      handled carefully in poorly ventilated or confined spaces to minimize the potential for
      asphyxiation. Freon is a fluorocarbon and requires stringent environmental controls IAW
      local procedures. Refer to paragraph 24.15.1.4 and TO 42B-5-1-2, Gas Cylinders
      (Storage Type) – Use, Handling and Maintenance, for general safety guidance and
      requirements for compressed gases.
      24.15.4.4. Test Equipment. Multimeters are used in most AGE shops. Users shall ensure
      the meter is set on the proper scale before connecting equipment to a power source. The
      calibration date shall be checked before each use and recalibrated if out of date.
      Personnel shall be trained prior to using this equipment and shall not hold meters in their
      hand when testing energized circuits. Use non-conductive, insulated gloves or other
      effective PPE when necessary to handhold meters or test cables. Users shall also comply
      with UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety O & M.
         24.15.4.4.1. Generator load banks are used to test generator sets. Use caution when
         testing due to the high amperage associated with the procedure. Load banks shall be
         maintained in strict compliance with applicable TOs and manufacturer‘s manuals.
         24.15.4.4.2. Hearing protection may be required due to high noise levels when the
         generator is operating at heavy loads. Contact BE for hearing protection guidance.
      24.15.4.5. Jacking Operations. Prior to jacking equipment, the parking brake shall be set
      or chocks used or both. Jack stands of the proper capacity shall be used. Equipment shall
      be jacked to the minimum height required for the task and jacks shall be removed when
      the task is completed. Workers shall remain under a jacked unit only as needed to
      accomplish the task. Jacks and jack stands shall be marked with load capacity, and
      inspected and maintained IAW the manufacturer‘s instructions, Chapter 32, Motor
      Vehicle – Operations and Maintenance, 29 CFR 1910.244, Other Portable Tools and
      Equipment, or applicable TO.
      24.15.4.6. Tire Maintenance. Tires shall not be removed from AGE unless the unit is on
      jack stands or similarly blocked to prevent falling after tire removal. Tires shall be
      deflated prior to wheel disassembly. Tires shall be inflated IAW applicable TO guidance.
      High pressure air shall not be used to inflate tires. Multi-piece rim wheels require special
      attention during mounting, demounting and inflation. Refer to paragraph 24.12.6 for
      more information on multi-piece rim wheels. Tires on multi-piece wheels shall be
      inflated in a cage or other approved restraining device. Refer to paragraph 32.14 for
      additional tire servicing information.
      24.15.4.7. Oxygen Carts. Oxygen carts shall be kept clean and free of moisture, oil and
      grease. Oxygen carts shall not be parked in grassy, sodded or asphalt-covered areas nor
      exposed to extreme weather conditions, parked in direct sunlight or allowed to
      accumulate ice or snow. LOX carts containing LOX shall not be parked in hangars, nose
      docks or shelters unless designed or modified for this purpose. LOX carts shall be
      transported with vent valve closed and parked with vent valve open. Refer to TO 00-25-
      172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, TO 42B5-1-2, Gas
      Cylinders (Storage Type) – Use, Handling and Maintenance, Chapter 43, Liquid
      Nitrogen (LIN) and Oxygen (LOX) and applicable aircraft TOs for more information on
      gaseous oxygen and LOX handling, servicing and storage.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         419



         24.15.4.7.1. Gaseous oxygen and LOX carts shall be parked and stored at least (IAW
         TO 00-25-172):
             24.15.4.7.1.1. Twenty-five feet from structures with fire-resistant or non-
             combustible exterior walls or automatic fire extinguishing systems.
             24.15.4.7.1.2. Fifty feet from combustible structures or sources of ignition, such
             as heavy vehicle traffic areas, areas where equipment is operating or designated
             smoking areas.
             24.15.4.7.1.3. Seventy-five feet from aircraft parking, fueling or defueling areas.
  24.15.5. Communication and Navigation Equipment Repair. Repair communication and
  electronic (C-E) equipment on an approved shop bench IAW TO or manufacturer‘s
  instructions. Do not operate, test or check radar or high frequency (HF) radio transmitting
  equipment with power-on during aircraft fueling/defueling, fuel cell/integral tank repair
  activities or when hazardous vapors may be present. No radar emissions are allowed in
  hangars due to personnel hazards or inadvertent activation of facility warning and fire
  protection systems. See AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety
  Program, for additional information.
  24.15.6. Flight Control Systems. Unexpected movement of flight controls may cause severe
  injuries. Maintenance personnel shall be trained and aware of dangers with flight control
  system operation. Flight control operation shall be directed orally by interphone or after
  visual assurance from a person outside the aircraft that flight control surfaces and movement
  areas are clear. All maintenance activities shall be coordinated and a warning tag applied to
  the flight controls to prevent movement when workers are exposed to potential injury. Local
  procedures shall be developed to address work shift changes when tags must remain in place
  or be reapplied.
  24.15.7. Aircraft Hydraulic Systems. Workers shall ensure pressures are relieved prior to
  disassembling any hydraulic lines or system components. Control(s) that could injure
  personnel or damage equipment shall be tagged out IAW TO procedures and/or local
  procedures while maintenance activities are in progress. Proper PPE, such as goggles, shall
  be worn. Hydraulic spills shall be cleaned up immediately to prevent slips and falls.
  24.15.8. Battery-Powered Screwdrivers and Drills. Cordless drills and screwdrivers are
  authorized for use outdoors and indoors during all periods of aircraft maintenance on JP-8 or
  other high flashpoint fueled aircraft, with the following restrictions: Note: Battery-powered
  screwdrivers and drills that are intrinsically safe or listed for use in Class 1, Division 1 or 2
  areas (may be used in listed areas) need only comply with paragraph 24.15.8.6.
     24.15.8.1. Tools shall not be used within fuel servicing safety zones described in TO 00-
     25-172.
     24.15.8.2. Tools shall not be used within 5 feet of a fuel vent or open fuel tank.
     24.15.8.3. Use on JP-4 fueled aircraft is not permitted. When JP-4 and JP-8 fueled
     aircraft occupy the same maintenance hangar, requirements for JP-4 fueled aircraft shall
     apply.
 420                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       24.15.8.4. Tools are not used to install/remove fasteners from fuel tanks, fuel cell
       cavities or engine enclosures.
       24.15.8.5. Tools shall not be used when there is a suspected or known fuel leak.
       24.15.8.6. Tool battery exchanges and recharging shall not be conducted in Class I,
       Division 1 or 2 hazard areas.
   24.15.9. Parachute Shops. Many fabrics, paints and cleaning components used in parachute
   shops are highly flammable or toxic. Good housekeeping in parachute shops is essential to a
   safe and efficient operation. Ventilation, temperature and humidity shall be carefully
   controlled to prevent deterioration of materials and minimize mishap potential. Covered
   metal safety waste containers shall be provided for the disposal of waste and rags saturated
   with flammable substances. These containers shall be emptied or removed at the end of each
   day or shift to an approved location outside the shop for pickup and disposal. Contact the
   installation Environmental Management office for waste disposal guidance. Cleaning fluids
   shall be used only in well-ventilated rooms equipped with exhaust systems as required by the
   BE OEH risk assessment. Cleaning booths approved by the installation FES Flight and BE
   shall be provided, when necessary, for spot cleaning parachutes or components. The handling
   of carbon dioxide (CO2) cylinders in parachute shops shall be under the direction of
   supervisors or trained technicians.
       24.15.9.1. Parachutes and Harness Fabrics. These fabrics are subject to spontaneous
       combustion when treated with paints containing waterproof compounds. Fabrics treated
       with these paints shall be thoroughly dried in open air and not packed, stored, left in
       shops or shipped before dry.
       24.15.9.2. Wire, Cords and Receptacles. Damaged or frayed electric wires, cords and
       plugs shall be immediately replaced or repaired by qualified electricians.
       24.15.9.3. Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited in all parachute facilities.
       24.15.9.4. Kapok Storage. Kapok and other padding materials shall be stored in
       reasonable amounts in covered and vented metal safety containers.
       24.15.9.5. Hoisting and Hold Down Devices. Supervisors shall ensure all devices used to
       hang parachutes in drying towers are periodically inspected by qualified personnel.
       Recessed hold downs shall be installed in drying room floors to eliminate tripping
       hazards. Hard hats shall be worn by workers in drying towers.
       24.15.9.6. Explosives. Storing, handling and using explosives shall be IAW specific TOs
       and AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
24.16. Fall Protection Requirements. Maintenance group commanders or designated
representative must ensure safe Air Force maintenance operations. Flight line and hangar
operations must include an appropriate level of fall protection commensurate with Air Force
mission requirements. To ensure consistency across Air Force operations, AFMC and the lead
MAJCOM for the Mission Design Series (MDS) will work together to ensure development of
standardized fall protection requirements and procedures are published in the applicable weapon
system TOs. Maintenance group commanders may declare a non-routine operation military-
unique on a case-by-case basis, in coordination with the organizational/appropriate chief of
safety. These terms are defined as follows:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           421



   24.16.1. Military-Unique. Per DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH)
   Program, USAF military and civilian operations, workplaces, equipment and systems that
   are unique to the national defense mission (not normally performed across the general
   aviation industry or private enterprise) are considered military-unique. This includes combat
   operations, testing, maintenance of military-unique equipment and systems such as military
   weapons, military-unique aircraft, missiles, early warning systems, military space systems,
   ordnance and tactical vehicles. It also includes operations such as peacekeeping missions,
   field maneuvers, combat training, military flight and missile operations, military-unique
   research, development, test and evaluation activities, and actions required under national
   defense contingency conditions. OSHA and other non-DoD regulatory fall protection safety
   and health standards shall be applied to military-unique equipment, systems, operations or
   workplaces, in whole or in part, insofar as practicable. When military design, specifications
   or deployment requirements render compliance with existing fall protection standards
   unfeasible or inappropriate, or when no standard exists for such military application, the
   USAF shall develop standards. For military-unique operations, AF guidance applies to
   military members, AF civilians and contractor personnel.
   24.16.2. Nonmilitary-Unique. DoDI 6055.1 defines nonmilitary-unique operations as DoD
   military and civilian workplaces and operations whose operations are generally comparable
   to those of the private sector, i.e., Air Force flight line operations or processes common to
   general aviation industry normal, day-to-day operations. This includes facilities involved and
   work performed in the repair and overhaul of weapons, aircraft and vehicles (except for
   equipment trials). Nonmilitary-unique activities, both on the flight line and in hangars,
   require fall protection be used where there is a potential of falling: a) four (4) feet or more to
   the next lower level, or b) regardless of height, into unguarded machinery or dangerous
   equipment (includes hot/cold surfaces, electrified contacts, chemicals, sharp or impalement
   hazards, etc.).
Note: Maintenance activities performed in hardened aircraft shelters are nonmilitary-unique
unless they meet paragraph 24.16.1. definition of military-unique above.
   24.16.3. Given the diversity and complexity of Air Force operations, it is impossible to
   address every situation in this guidance. However, the intent is reasonably clear and
   commanders have the authority to make final determinations regarding military uniqueness.
   Decisions that are based upon sound risk management principles, and the DoD guidance
   provided, are very likely to be defendable and correct. Supervisors working with the local
   safety staff are in the best position to recommend decisions that optimally balance safety and
   mission accomplishment.
   24.16.4. While the Air Force must comply with OSHA requirements to the maximum extent
   practical, there may be operations where, due to facility or equipment design, or operational
   requirements, active or passive means of fall protection are not feasible. In such cases, the
   best level of fall protection available, within existing operational limitations, shall be
   provided. Where adequate lead time is available or for repetitive operations, a JSA shall be
   conducted and documented IAW AFI 91-202. Organizations should discuss JSAs with the
   applicable TO writer or Aircraft Item Manager for their airframe, then involve
   organizational/appropriate safety office. Also see paragraph 24.16.5.3. Note: For ALC
   Depots, a standardized Process Order integrated into the task may be used in lieu of a JSA.
422                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  24.16.5. Types of Fall Protection. Fall hazards from aircraft walking and working surfaces
  are controlled through application of Risk Management, at command and local levels, to
  determine which fall protection method offers optimal worker safety for the tasks performed.
  The maximum use of maintenance stands and work platforms, whenever possible, will
  reduce the exposure and risk. Whenever it becomes necessary to perform required tasks
  where a worker can fall four (4) feet or more, fall protection will be used. Refer to
  paragraphs 24.16.1 and 24.16.2 for additional guidance.
      24.16.5.1. Passive. Passive fall protection is the most preferred means of protecting
      workers from falls. Passive Systems need not be directly connected to the worker to
      prevent a worker from falling. These systems include guardrails, work stands and
      platforms (including aircraft maintenance stands, i.e., B-1, B-4, B-5, etc.), nets and other
      devices. If passive fall protection is not feasible, active fall protection will be the next
      option considered.
      24.16.5.2. Active. Active fall protection, such as positioning devices, fall restraint
      systems, ladder climbing devices and Personal Fall Arrest Systems (PFASs), require the
      worker to wear a full body harness and components and attach himself/herself to an
      anchorage or lifeline. Positioning devices and fall restraint systems prevent a worker
      from falling off unprotected sides and edges by restricting the worker‘s range of
      movement while a Personal Fall Arrest System (PFAS) allows a worker to fall off
      unprotected sides and edges, but the PFAS and components absorb the energy forces
      during a fall, reducing the potential for injury.
         24.16.5.2.1. PFASs require an anchorage connection point, connecting hardware
         components, body and fixed or shock absorbing lanyard, depending on system design.
         Anchorage connecting point(s) for each worker will have minimal support strength of
         5,000 pounds (22.2 kilo-newton [kN]). Vertical and horizontal lifelines shall have a
         minimal breading strength of 5,000 pounds (22.2 kN). Horizontal lifelines shall be
         designed, installed and used under the supervision of a qualified person, as part of a
         complete PFAS, which maintains a safety factor of at least two. Lanyards, D-rings,
         locking snap-hooks and all components of a fall arrest system will also be capable of
         sustaining a minimum tensile load of 5,000 pounds (22.2 kN). See paragraph 13.2,
         and 29 CFR 1926.502, Fall Protection Systems Criteria and Practices, 29 CFR
         1910.66, Appendix C, Personal Fall Arrest System, and 29 CFR 1926.104., Safety
         Belts, Lifelines, and Lanyards, for additional PFAS guidance. To prevent worker
         injury or death, PFASs shall not be used without a rescue plan. IAW ANSI Z359.4,
         Safety Requirements for Assisted-Rescue and Self-Rescue Systems, Subsystems and
         Components, prompt rescue means getting to the subject within six (6) minutes after
         an accidental fall. Caution: Shock absorbing lanyards will not be used in
         conjunction with self-retracting lifelines, fall limiters, retractable web lanyards or
         decelerator packs (inertial reel type lifelines) devices. Multi-use or combinations of
         use can result in two falls and could hinder and/or prevent self-rescue or external
         rescue. Warning: Hanging in a harness for an extended period of time can be fatal.
         Supervisors shall ensure workers using a PFAS can be properly rescued or can rescue
         themselves should a fall occur. Availability of rescue personnel, ladders or other
         rescue equipment shall be determined prior to using a fall arrest system.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         423



        24.16.5.2.2. Positioning and restraint systems. Fall restraint systems restrict a
        worker‘s range of movement so the individual cannot get into a position that would
        allow a fall. Positioning systems allow a worker to be supported on an elevated
        vertical/inclined surface and body support is hands free. Anchorage connecting
        point(s), work positioning and restraint lanyards for each worker will have minimal
        support strength of 5,000 pounds (22.2 kN). Secure the worker to an anchor using a
        lanyard short enough to prevent the worker‘s center of mass from reaching the fall
        hazard. When exposed to a fall hazard, a PFAS must also be used. Refer to paragraph
        24.16.5.2.1 for additional guidance.
     24.16.5.3. Procedural Controls. Active and passive means of fall protection shall be used
     to the maximum extent practical. However, procedural controls, the least preferred
     method of fall protection, may be used for aircraft operations (such as those conducted
     outside a hangar, wash rack or at any location without an overhead structure) where the
     use of active or passive means of fall protection, i.e., railings, work stands, portable
     anchorages, mobile lifts, nets, PFAS, etc., is ineffective, would create a greater hazard or
     is not feasible. MDS procedural controls, such as restricting workers to TO designated
     aircraft surfaces, require aggressive risk management and shall be documented in a JSA
     developed by the lead MAJCOM for the MDS and incorporated in the applicable weapon
     system TOs to standardize the process. Local procedural controls, driven by conditions
     unique to a local facility or equipment design, or local operational requirements, will be
     developed and documented in a JSA IAW AFI 91-202 by the maintenance group (or
     equivalent), approved by the maintenance group commander and coordinated with the
     organizational/appropriate Ground Safety office before the procedural controls are used.
     In the absence of active or passive fall protection, the JSA identifies the best level of fall
     protection available within existing operational limitations. Procedures and equipment
     identified in the JSA are considered to be the minimum mandatory requirements for
     operations covered in the JSA. Considerations when developing procedural controls
     include:
        24.16.5.3.1. Controlled Access Zones (CAZs). CAZs are a procedural control
        method consisting of designated working surfaces that are restricted to those
        individuals specifically trained for and required to enter the area during the
        maintenance operation.
        24.16.5.3.2. TO Designated Walkways. TO designated walkways shall be considered
        when maintenance or inspections can be performed from within the TO designated
        walkways. Note: Some TO designated walkways may be suitable for use as
        procedural controls for fall protection. However, TO designated walkways are
        primarily designed to protect the aircraft and are not necessarily areas that, by virtue
        of location, provide workers a minimal risk of falling to the next lower level. During
        maintenance within the designated walkways, walkways that become minimized by
        the removal of leading or trailing edge surfaces, fall protection will be employed.
        24.16.5.3.3. Extra caution and risk management (RM) shall be used when aircraft
        surfaces are wet or covered with snow, frost or ice; when winds are 20 knots or
        greater; or other adverse environmental conditions exist.
424                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  24.16.6. Mobile Work Platforms. Mobile work platforms (vehicle-mounted elevating and
  rotating work platforms, manually propelled maintenance stands and self-propelled mobile
  work platforms and scaffolds) shall have protective guardrails, midrails and toe boards (or
  equivalent) installed on all open sides, except the side facing the aircraft when it is within 14
  inches of the working surface, unless workers are protected by a PFAS. See Chapter 16 for
  additional information. Note: The side of the platform facing the stairway is not considered
  an open side when the stairway is equipped with the required handrails.
  24.16.7. Manually Propelled Aircraft Maintenance Stands:
      24.16.7.1. Maintenance stands will be designed and maintained IAW applicable ANSI
      standards, manufacturer‘s guidance and technical order (TO) requirements.
      24.16.7.2. Requirements for towing small aircraft maintenance stands such as the B-1, B-
      4 or B-5 or larger stands such as the B-3 and J-7, are found in paragraph 24.7 or in
      Chapter 16.
      24.16.7.3. No stand will be used unless a minimum of two brakes are set and all wheel
      casters locked, with the wheels locked in an opposite facing direction. Wheel chocks may
      be used to supplement these requirements. Stands will be locked when not in use to avoid
      rolling down slanted surfaces or being moved by the wind when outdoors. Chocks will be
      constructed as per Commercial Item Specification A-A-52475 or locally manufactured
      IAW TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding,
      Chapter 4.
      24.16.7.4. Follow approved guidance to raise and lower maintenance stands. Unless
      required by TO or manufacturer‘s instructions, personnel will not stand on or ride
      maintenance stands being raised or lowered. Locking pins or other devices, as required,
      shall be in place before anyone is allowed to ascend the stairs or ladder.
      24.16.7.5. Where location and aircraft configuration permit, required stand railings will
      be in place before stand is used.
      24.16.7.6. Guardrails and midrails (when required) shall be installed and access gates or
      openings closed per TO or manufacturer‘s instructions (including bolts, pins or other
      locking devices on removable railings and attachments) where location and aircraft
      configuration permit when there is a possibility of falling four (4) feet or more to the next
      lower surface.
      24.16.7.7. Platforms used at a height of 10 feet or more shall include toeboards or
      equivalents on all sides. The minimum toeboard height shall be 4 inches.
      24.16.7.8. The side of the platform facing the stairway is not considered an open side
      when the stairway is equipped with the required handrails.
      24.16.7.9. Maintenance stands will be visually inspected IAW TO 00-20-1 by the user
      daily, before use, for serviceability and leaks. Items to be inspected will include brakes,
      jacks, wheel locks, securing cables, locking pins, hydraulic systems, anchor connections,
      railings and removable attachments, including bolts, pins or other locking devices and
      overall equipment condition. Stands with defects shall be tagged as unserviceable.
      Inspection should be documented on AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment
      Record. Note: A daily inspection is not required for days the stand is not used.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         425



      24.16.7.10. Personnel will not use railings, planks, toeboards, ladders or any other device
      in or on the work platform for achieving additional working height or reach.
      24.16.7.11. Vehicle-Mounted Elevating and Rotating Work Platforms and Self-Propelled
      Mobile Work Platforms.
          24.16.7.11.1. When using vehicle mounted and self-propelled mobile work
          platforms, which have manufacturer-installed structural anchor points, with the
          platform elevated four (4) feet or more above the surface, personal fall arrest systems
          shall be worn with lanyard attached to an approved structural anchor point. When
          these platforms have not been manufactured with an approved structural anchor point,
          protective guardrails, midrails (when required), and toeboards must be installed on all
          open sides, except the side facing the structure (i.e., aircraft, buildings) when it is
          within 14 inches of the working surface. Personnel will not use railings, planks,
          ladders or any other device in or on the work platform for achieving additional
          working height or reach.
          24.16.7.11.2. A removable protective guardrail shall only be removed from the side
          of the platform that has been positioned as close as practical, but 14 inches or less and
          parallel to an aircraft, building or other working surface. Guardrails will be installed
          on all open sides if platform levels are four (4) feet or higher above the ground or
          floor. Bolts, pins or other locking devices will be provided and used on all removable
          railings and attachments. Only guardrails and toeboards meeting the criteria in
          paragraph 16.4.6.10.8 will be used.
24.17. Safety in Flight Line Contractor Operations.
   24.17.1. Contractor operations may create hazardous working conditions for Air Force
   personnel. To ensure Air Force personnel or resources are not subjected to hazards, the
   installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight, Airfield Management and BE shall review
   contracts and activities of contractors performing a task or service for the Air Force.
   Appropriate safety, fire and health requirements shall be included in contract specifications.
   This is normally accomplished by including appropriate Defense Acquisition Regulations
   (DAR) and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) provisions or clauses in the contract.
   Installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight, Airfield Management and BE shall help the
   contracting officer and using organization establish appropriate requirements. Also,
   appropriate US Air Force and installation traffic provisions shall be identified to help control
   contractor vehicles on base. If a contractor procedure or condition requires correction, action
   shall be initiated through the Contracting Officer. Refer to AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety,
   for additional guidance. Note: Contractors shall adhere to Department of Defense (DoD) and
   US Air Force rules and policies. Unless otherwise stated in the contract, contractors shall
   comply with DoD and Air Force standards, instructions, pamphlets, manuals, technical data,
   regulations and other applicable official technical publications and guidance.
   24.17.2. Construction Contracts. The contracting officer shall call a pre-construction
   conference before the contractor begins construction on an Air Force installation. Installation
   Ground Safety office, Flight Safety Office, FES Flight, Airfield Management, BE, the using
   organization, CE, contractor representatives and other affected agencies, as appropriate, shall
   be present. The Contracting Officer shall ensure the contractor knows all necessary Air Force
 426                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   safety requirements associated with the contract. Note: This guidance does not apply to US
   Army Corps of Engineers contracts.
   24.17.3. Non-Construction Contracts. Most non-construction contracts on Air Force
   installations involve persons or companies providing goods and services to installation
   personnel and activities. Contracting Officer coordination with the installation Ground Safety
   office, FES Flight, Airfield Management, BE, contract representatives, using organization
   and other affected organizations, as appropriate, is necessary to assure appropriate safety, fire
   prevention and health requirements are included in the contract. Prior to contract renewal,
   Ground Safety office, FES Flight, Airfield Management, BE, contract representatives and the
   using organization will review the contract to ensure its continued adequacy.
24.18. Aircraft Flight line – Ground Operations and Activities Checklist. This is not an all
inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items
contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist.
Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to
this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or
situations.
   24.18.1. Are pressure regulators installed to prevent over-pressurization of components
   being serviced with compressed air? Reference 24.2.5.2.3
   24.18.2. Are wiping clothes, oily waste and other flammable materials placed in self-closing
   metal containers? Reference 24.3.3.4.2
   24.18.3. Is an AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, issued prior to welding on aircraft?
   Reference 24.3.3.5
   24.18.4. Are suitable fire extinguishers placed throughout maintenance areas? Reference
   24.3.3.6
   24.18.5. Are personnel prohibited from wearing hats and caps on the flight line or in an
   engine intake danger zone? Reference 24.4.1
   24.18.6. Are all bicycles (Air Force and privately owned) operated on the flight line during
   hours of darkness equipped with an operational headlight and reflective markings front and
   rear? Reference 24.4.4.2
   24.18.7. Do parking lines have spots painted where the nose or forward wheel of the aircraft
   are positioned on aircraft parking spaces on the flight line and in maintenance hangars?
   Reference 24.5.5
   24.18.8. Have emergency procedures been developed to remove endangered aircraft in the
   event of a fire, adverse weather or other emergency situations? Reference 24.5.7
   24.18.9. Have local procedures been established to ensure key agencies are notified of
   adverse weather conditions? Reference 24.6.1
   24.18.10. Has the installation established a lightning safety program with a two-tier
   notification system? Reference 24.6.1
   24.18.11. Does the tow supervisor clearly define duties and responsibilities to the towing
   team at the pre-tow briefing? Reference 24.7.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           427



  24.18.12. Is the supervisor the only team member authorized to give the ―all clear to move‖
  order? Reference 24.7.2.1
  24.18.13. During towing operations, does the supervisor have a clear view of both wing
  walkers, the vehicle driver and direct contact with the person in the pilot‘s seat? Reference
  24.7.2.6
  24.18.14. Do tow team members use luminous wands when aircraft are towed at night?
  Reference 24.7.5
  24.18.15. Prior to and during taxi, is radio contact established and maintained between the
  aircraft and control tower? Reference 24.7.21.1.2
  24.18.16. Are aircraft jacks operated, maintained, inspected and tested IAW applicable TOs
  or handbooks? Reference 24.8.1.1
  24.18.17. Are all workstands and other equipment not required to be under the aircraft
  during jacking operations removed before aircraft are raised on jacks? Reference 24.8.1.2
  24.18.18. When an aircraft is on jacks, is the area around the aircraft properly secured and
  appropriate warning signs posted? Reference 24.8.1.4
  24.18.19. Do supervisors ensure engines or other major components, such as wing panels,
  stabilizers, etc., are not changed when the aircraft is on jacks and landing gear clear of the
  ramp or floor, unless authorized by applicable TOs? Reference 24.8.1.5
  24.18.20. Are aircraft properly chocked and parked IAW applicable TOs and job guides
  before starting engines? Reference 24.9.2
  24.18.21. Is a qualified and trained fire guard in position by the fire bottle(s) prior to starting
  aircraft engines, and does he/she remain in place until all engines are operating and the
  danger of fire no longer exists? Reference 24.9.4
  24.18.22. Do crew and maintenance personnel wear approved hearing protection in noise
  hazard areas? Reference 24.9.9
  24.18.23. On jet engine aircraft, are crewmembers, maintenance workers and personnel with
  flight line access briefed not to approach closer than 5 feet from the side or rear or 25 feet
  from the front of engine intake ducts when the engine is in operation? Reference 24.10.3
  24.18.24. Are ground safety pins installed by aircrew or maintenance workers immediately
  after the landing aircraft is parked and engines shutdown or by egress workers after
  maintenance work requiring removal of the pins is complete? Reference 24.10.5.1
  24.18.25. For work in a jet engine tailpipe, is a responsible individual positioned adjacent to
  the tail pipe or entrance of the aircraft to prevent anyone entering the cockpit and to maintain
  communication with the person in the tail pipe? Reference 24.10.8
  24.18.26. At the end of each day or shift, are flammable waste containers emptied or
  removed to an approved location outside the shop for pickup and disposal? Reference
  24.11.2.2
  24.18.27. Are flammable storage areas kept cool (55o to 80o F) and free from spark or heat-
  producing equipment? Reference 24.11.2.3
428                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  24.18.28. Are tire cages used when servicing aircraft tires in the tire shop? Reference
  24.12.2
  24.18.29. Are procedures in place to ensure only oil-free nitrogen is used to inflate aircraft
  tires? Reference 24.12.4.1
  24.18.30. Are aircraft wheel and tire removal operations IAW TO 4T-1-3? Reference
  24.12.5
  24.18.31. Are tire servicing restraint devices visually inspected prior to each day‘s use?
  Reference 24.12.8
  24.18.32. Has the Airfield Manager established a program for issuing AF Form 483,
  Certificate of Competency, endorsed for flight line driving? Reference 24.13.2.4
  24.18.33. Do all passengers use available seat belts while vehicle is in motion? Reference
  24.13.8
  24.18.34. Are FOD Check signs posted at entrances to ramp area/flight line? Reference
  24.13.13
  24.18.35. Are guides/spotters used to assist K-loader and roller equipped trailer operators
  when approaching an aircraft to load or off-load? Reference 24.13.19
  24.18.36. Are passengers prevented from riding on tow tractors unless adequate seats are
  provided for that purpose? Reference 24.13.20
  24.18.37. Are pintle assemblies and towing connections secured with a pintle hook safety
  locking device or cotter pin that will positively lock towing connections? Reference
  24.13.20.2
  24.18.38. Are hazardous areas in aircraft hangars or nose docks, such as crush and pinch
  points that cannot be eliminated by engineering controls or mechanical safeguards,
  highlighted with colored paint and signs? Reference 24.14.4.1
  24.18.39. Have all personnel who routinely work in hangars or require access through the
  hangar doors received annual Hangar Door Awareness Training? Reference 24.14.5
  24.18.40. Are only qualified personnel, approved by the squadron commander or designated
  representative, authorized to operate hangar doors? Reference 24.14.8.3
  24.18.41. Are overhead hangar doors fully opened before moving aircraft through the door?
  Reference 24.14.8.4
  24.18.42. Do facility managers conduct monthly inspections of hangar door operational and
  safety features? Reference 24.14.8.7
  24.18.43. Are visual inspections of the door path and track-way accomplished before hangar
  door movement? Reference 24.14.9
  24.18.44. Is temporary or makeshift electrical wiring prohibited in hangars? Reference
  24.14.13
  24.18.45. Are emergency procedures established to remove aircraft in case of fire, severe
  weather or other hazards? Reference 24.14.15
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      429



  24.18.46. Do supervisors prohibit wear of finger rings and loose clothing when they pose a
  hazard to workers? Reference 24.15.1.6
  24.18.47. Is incidental storage of small amounts of paints and thinners in approved cabinets
  with self-closing doors? Reference 24.15.3.1.1
  24.18.48. Are hazardous operations prohibited within 50 feet of major cleaning, painting or
  paint removal operations? Reference 24.15.3.2.1
  24.18.49. Is the work area inspected to eliminate ignition sources prior to paint touchup
  operations? Reference 24.15.3.2.1
  24.18.50. If hangar doors are opened to disperse flammable vapor concentrations, are the
  doors opened at least 10 feet? Reference 24.15.3.2.2
  24.18.51. If opened to less than 10 feet, are procedures in place to lock out the main door
  switch? Reference 24.15.3.2.2
  24.18.52. Is the multimeter calibration date checked prior to each use? Reference 24.15.4.4
  24.18.53. Are parking brakes set and/or chocks used prior to jacking equipment? Reference
  24.15.4.5
  24.18.54. Are jacks and jack stands inspected and maintained IAW TO or manufacturer‘s
  instructions? Reference 24.15.4.5
  24.18.55. Are locking pins installed, hydraulic pressure released, platform eased down onto
  the locks and the hydraulic valve closed before anyone is allowed on the maintenance stand?
  Reference 24.15.4.8.1
  24.18.56. Are procedures in place to protect workers from unexpected movement of flight
  controls? Reference 24.15.6
  24.18.57. Is fall protection available and used by workers exposed to a fall of 4 feet/10 feet
  or more? Reference 24.16
 430                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 25

                                    CIVIL ENGINEERING

25.1. Hazards. Civil engineering (CE) units are typically involved in numerous planning,
maintenance and fire prevention activities that have a high risk for mishaps. Safe management of
the work force, inclusion of safety features (most economical during the identification, planning
or design phases) and the correction of facility and grounds hazards are instrumental in
preventing mishaps. Training, safe work practices, correct personal protective equipment (PPE),
proper tools, human factors and operational risk management (ORM) should all be
addressed/accomplished prior to starting tasks.
   25.1.1. Confined Spaces. Personnel working with electricity, plumbing, water and
   wastewater treatment, heating maintenance, power production and other allied trades may
   need to enter tanks, vaults, manholes and other above or below-ground level environments.
   Personnel entering or working in confined spaces may encounter serious hazards. These may
   include atmospheric hazards such as lack of sufficient oxygen to support life, excessive
   oxygen levels that increase the danger of fire or explosion, presence of flammable or
   explosive atmospheres, and materials or the presence of toxic gases or materials. In addition,
   the confined workspace may include electrical or mechanical hazards that must be locked
   out, or engulfment or entrapment hazards. Many of these hazards are not readily apparent,
   detectable by odor or visible by normal means, which may result in workers entering
   confined spaces without consideration of potential dangers. Workers must consider all
   confined spaces unsafe and not enter or work in these spaces until tests, evaluations and
   requirements of Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, and locally developed procedures are
   performed to ensure safe conditions exist prior to entry and that safe conditions are
   maintained during the entire work period.
   25.1.2. Cleaning. Soaps and solvents can cause surfaces to become slippery and increase the
   potential for slips and falls. Certain cleaning solvents may ignite if applied to hot surfaces or
   when heated, causing fires and injuries to workers.
       25.1.2.1. Pressure cleaners and steam cleaners operate at pressures in excess of 100 psi
       and temperatures near 200° F which can scald or burn workers on contact.
       25.1.2.2. Soaps and solvents can cause dermatitis, eye irritation and other medical
       problems if the solvents become inhaled.
   25.1.3. Interruption of services, injury to workers and equipment damages can occur when
   electrical, gas and steam lines are broken during digging operations. Ensure digging permits
   are obtained prior to digging.
   25.1.4. Flammables and Combustibles. Improper use of flammable and combustible liquids
   can result in explosions, burns from fire and chemicals, asphyxiation, inhalation of vapors,
   absorption through the skin, skin irritation and eye damage from direct contact or exposure.
   The volatility of flammable or combustible liquids is increased by heating and, when heated
   higher than their flash points, they present additional hazards.
   25.1.5. Power Tools. Portable power tools receive power from electricity, air pressure,
   explosive charges or a rotating flexible cable. While the portable tool increases mobility and
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        431



  convenience, it is frequently more hazardous to use than its stationary counterpart because
  portable tools are small, making safety guarding more difficult. Typical injuries from
  portable power tools include electrical shock, burns, cuts, eye injuries from flying particles
  and muscle strains. The most common injuries from portable circular saws result from
  contact with the blade, electric shock or burns, tripping over cords or saws, losing balance
  while using the saw, dropping the saw on one‘s self or another person and kickbacks from
  pinching blades in the cut. Severe eye injuries may result from flying particles or sawdust.
  25.1.6. Shock or electrocution may occur from contact with energized systems. Electrical
  equipment can also be an ignition source for fire or explosion caused by short circuits, over-
  heated equipment or failure of current limiters, thermal sensors and other devices. Explosions
  may occur when flammable liquids, gases or dusts are exposed to ignition sources generated
  by electrical equipment.
  25.1.7. Electrical Cords and Power Cables. Abuse or improper care of electrical cords and
  power cables may cause insulation to become frayed or damaged, which may lead to
  electrical shock of workers using the damaged cords or cables.
     25.1.7.1. Excessive scraping, kinking, stretching and exposure to grease and oils will
     damage electrical cords and power cables and cause premature failure and possible shock
     or burns.
     25.1.7.2. Electric cords of power hand tools may be damaged or cut if the operator
     allows the cord to fall in the path of material being worked or sawed.
  25.1.8. Manual Handling Practices. Hernias, back strains, crushed hands and feet, broken
  bones and severe lacerations can result from poor manual handling practices. Injuries may
  occur from improper lifting procedures or failure to use mechanical lifting devices for
  handling heavy loads.
  25.1.9. Many hazards are associated with physical limitations, e.g., fatigue and adverse
  working conditions. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, for additional information.
     25.1.9.1. Fatigue may cause worker inattention and inability to concentrate on job tasks
     that could result in trips, falls, inability to carry heavy articles properly and exposure to
     vehicles and other moving objects the worker may fail to observe.
     25.1.9.2. Extreme or adverse weather conditions, i.e., heat, cold, extreme humidity,
     affect each individual worker differently and may increase the probability of a mishap.
  25.1.10. Use of the wrong tool and failure to inspect tools prior to use may cause cuts, eye
  injury and broken bones.
  25.1.11. Unsafe work practices when performing hot-work operations, such as welding,
  brazing, soldering, heat treating, grinding, powder-actuated tools, hot riveting and all other
  similar applications producing a spark, flame or heat-producing operation, may result in
  serious burns.
  25.1.12. Working with or around hazardous substances places workers in hazardous
  situations, such as working with or around battery acids, paints, chemicals, sewage or other
  cleaning operations. For example: substances such as mercury and phosphor contained in
  fluorescent lamps are dangerous in open cuts, mouth or eyes. Skin problems or dermatitis
 432                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   may result from handling epoxy cements, caustics, oils and solvents without protection.
   Proper PPE shall be used.
   25.1.13. Simple yet dangerous work, such as excavation, earth and rock removal, may result
   in cave-ins, causing serious injuries or death by suffocation or crushing. Additional hazards
   from buried pipes or lines may also be encountered when excavating around utilities.
   25.1.14. Work in areas where flying or falling objects may be present could result in a
   ―struck-by‖ incident. For example: tools left on a ledge could fall on workers below.
   25.1.15. Exposure to hazardous noise either in the shops or in other work areas, such as
   equipment rooms, generator rooms, heavy equipment operations and the flight line, without
   proper hearing protection can result in temporary or permanent loss of hearing.
   25.1.16. Attics, crawl spaces, tanks, vaults and similar areas frequently lack illumination
   resulting in falls, burns, cuts or electrical shock.
   25.1.17. Injuries from working on or near moving machinery range from minor cuts and
   bruises to a severed limb. This hazard exists where machinery is operated, including job sites
   where vehicles, equipment or machinery are in use. Ensure all guarding is in place and
   workers briefed on hazards.
   25.1.18. Mechanical lifting devices include cranes, hoists, slings, jacks and forklifts. Their
   use is subject to certain hazards that cannot be controlled by mechanical means, but only
   through proper supervision and training. Hazards include overloading, dropping or slipping
   of the load, obstructing the free passage of the load, moving a vehicle with an unsecured
   load, not using outriggers and other misuse of lifting devices.
   25.1.19. Motor vehicle operation mishaps may occur from improper backing of vehicles.
   Injuries are also sustained when a person gets on or off the vehicle while it is moving or
   when left in neutral without the parking brake set, when operators fail to adjust for weather
   conditions, speed or are inattentive to the driving task. Training and licensing is required for
   each type of vehicle utilized.
   25.1.20. The use of propane or gasoline-powered equipment, i.e., forklifts and materials
   handling carts, produces carbon monoxide. Worker exposure to carbon monoxide may be
   excessive if such operations are conducted in low ceiling, enclosed or non-ventilated areas.
   Ensure proper ventilation is available at all times.
25.2. Supervisory Responsibilities. Supervisors must recognize workplace hazards and apply
ORM when existing guidance, i.e., manufacturer‘s instructions, does not sufficiently address
operational concerns or requirements. Supervisors shall not require personnel to work in
environments or conditions that are hazardous to their safety or health without first providing
adequate engineering and administrative controls or PPE. The supervisor shall frequently inspect
job sites, work methods and materials, and equipment used. Any unsafe equipment or material
shall be tagged and rendered inoperative or physically removed from the workplace. The
supervisor shall permit only qualified personnel to operate equipment and machinery according
to safe work practices. Refer to AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, for additional ORM
information.
   25.2.1. Supervisors will:
       25.2.1.1. Ensure safe working conditions.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         433



     25.2.1.2. Ensure all electrical, power production and Heating, Air Conditioning and
     Ventilation (HVAC) personnel are trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
     procedures.
     25.2.1.3. Provide necessary protective equipment in consultation with BE and the
     Ground Safety office. Figure 25.1 contains additional guidance concerning PPE.
     25.2.1.4. Ensure required guards and protective equipment are provided, used and
     properly maintained.
     25.2.1.5. Ensure tools and equipment are properly maintained and used.
     25.2.1.6. Plan the workload and only assign workers to tasks they are qualified to
     perform. Personnel shall not work alone in remote or isolated work areas.
     25.2.1.7. Ensure workers understand the work to be done, the hazards that may be
     present and procedures for performing the work safely.
     25.2.1.8. Take immediate action to correct any violation of safety rules observed or
     reported to them.
     25.2.1.9. Ensure workers exposed or potentially exposed to hazardous chemicals or
     materials are trained to identify, minimize or eliminate the hazards of those chemicals
     and materials per AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication. Follow information from the
     MSDS for specific chemicals or materials. This information shall be used by supervisors
     in conjunction with worker training.
     25.2.1.10. Conduct a job safety analysis (JSA) of job tasks whenever required to
     determine the safest, most efficient means to accomplish a given task. Note: A JSA shall
     be accomplished when new equipment is installed, equipment is relocated or new
     procedures are implemented in critical or hazardous operations and existing guidance is
     not available. Refer to AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, for
     additional guidance.
     25.2.1.11. Ensure all personnel are trained on required equipment and their work
     environments.
     25.2.1.12. Ensure industrial shops and sites have a basic first aid kit, NSN 6545-00-922-
     1200, or suitable substitute, approved by the installation medical services, available to
     care for workers injuries until professional help arrives or they can obtain full medical
     care. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, for additional guidance.
  25.2.2. The following guides will aid supervisors in administering task briefings, i.e., tailgate
  meetings, to workers:
     25.2.2.1. Remind workers to check work areas for hazards.
     25.2.2.2. Review the work request or sketch with employees.
     25.2.2.3. Explain why the job is being done.
     25.2.2.4. Point out existing and potential hazards and steps required to control them.
     25.2.2.5. Explain work methods to be used.
434                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      25.2.2.6. Ask for questions and suggestions. Let workers know they may come to you or
      the safety representative with safety, fire prevention, or occupational health problems.
      25.2.2.7. Ensure all employees fully understand their work assignments and safety
      responsibilities.
      25.2.2.8. Recurring safety/weekly tailgate meetings are an excellent way for the
      supervisor to stress the importance of worker safety, both on- and off-the-job.
      Additionally, supervisors have the flexibility to include pertinent safety information
      relevant to their local area and work environment. These meetings allow for worker
      feedback and discussion and shall include one or more of the following topics as
      applicable to the job:
         25.2.2.8.1. Occupational Health and Safety Reports.
         25.2.2.8.2. Lifting and handling techniques.
         25.2.2.8.3. Hazards associated with various jobs in progress.
         25.2.2.8.4. Unsafe practices.
         25.2.2.8.5. Recent mishaps.
         25.2.2.8.6. Protective equipment.
         25.2.2.8.7. Portable electric tools.
         25.2.2.8.8. Hand tools.
         25.2.2.8.9. Chemicals and health hazards.
         25.2.2.8.10. Location and use of MSDSs.
         25.2.2.8.11. Safe housekeeping practices.
         25.2.2.8.12. Working on or near machinery.
         25.2.2.8.13. Use of ladders.
         25.2.2.8.14. Working on elevated platforms or positions.
         25.2.2.8.15. Falls from elevated positions.
         25.2.2.8.16. Lifting and hoisting equipment.
         25.2.2.8.17. Fire hazards and fire prevention.
         25.2.2.8.18. First aid and CPR training.
         25.2.2.8.19. Falls.
         25.2.2.8.20. Pertinent safe practices. Any worker identification of safety, fire
         prevention or occupational health hazards that cannot be corrected by the supervisor
         shall be handled by existing documentation systems, such as hazard reports, self-
         inspection reports or internal worker complaint channels. The organization chain of
         command shall be used to identify and correct hazards; however, if action is not
         taken, the installation Ground Safety office should be contacted.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         435



   25.2.3. Safety, Fire Protection and Health On-The-Job Training (OJT). Workers shall be
   thoroughly trained in the use of protective equipment, guards and safeguards for chemicals
   and the safe operation of equipment, machines and tools they use or operate. Only workers
   who have been trained and those undergoing supervised OJT shall be allowed to operate shop
   equipment, machines and tools. Certification and licensing are required for some tools and
   equipment, e.g., powder-actuated tools and electrical generators. Supervisors will ensure
   these special qualifications are complete and documented in workers‘ training records
   (military or civilian, as appropriate) before allowing or requiring the worker to use the tools.
   25.2.4. Supervisors shall watch for signs of fatigue and prevent workers from overexerting
   themselves. Physical limitations shall be considered when assigning job tasks. Other factors
   to consider when assigning job tasks include mental preoccupation resulting from personal
   problems that may have an impact upon workers‘ and co-workers‘ safety.
   25.2.5. Shop supervisors shall be aware of each worker‘s limitations, as reasonably possible,
   under different weather conditions and on-site job conditions and select personnel for job
   assignments accordingly.
   25.2.6. Supervisors and workers shall perform pre-job planning. Supervisors shall ensure
   operators are competent, careful, physically and mentally fit and thoroughly trained for
   assigned tasks.
25.3. Occupational Health. Health hazards that affect CE workers also affect building
occupants where work is performed and personnel passing by work in progress. Adequate
controls shall be used whenever an operation poses a potential health hazard to any personnel.
   25.3.1. AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program,
   addresses program responsibilities, designation of hazardous noise-producing equipment and
   hazardous noise areas, required PPE and required medical examinations for personnel
   exposed to hazardous noise. BE shall be contacted to evaluate and determine noise levels.
   25.3.2. Breathing Hazards. If process has not already been evaluated, contact BE for an OEH
   risk assessemnt. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance.
   25.3.3. Internal combustion engines shall not be operated inside buildings unless an exhaust
   system or other ventilation approved by BE is installed and used. When equipment is
   operated adjacent to buildings, the exhaust shall be directed away from the buildings.
   Substitution of internal combustion engine forklifts with electric forklifts, modification of
   existing equipment, or appropriate ventilation may be necessary to keep concentrations of
   carbon monoxide within permissible levels. Where high concentrations of carbon monoxide
   accumulate (e.g., in warehousing areas with a large number of forklifts in use), BE shall be
   contacted to survey and identify requirements to make the work area safe. Refer to AFMAN
   24-306 (IP), Manual for the Wheeled Operator, for requirements and information on safe
   vehicle operation.
   25.3.4. Skin Irritants. Dermatitis, one of the leading occupational diseases in today‘s
   workplace, is also easy to prevent. Gloves can easily provide adequate protection. Caution is
   advised in the selection process as not all gloves are adequate for all cleaning solvents and
   applications. If process has not already been evaluated, contact BE for Occupational and
 436                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   Environmental Health (OEH) risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 14.4.7 for additonal
   guidance on selecting gloves.
   25.3.5. Hazards from Flying or Falling Objects. Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment
   (PPE), and other specific job safety standards outline requirements for protective equipment,
   barriers and procedures to prevent injuries from flying or falling objects, e.g., face shield,
   hard hats or construction barriers. Proper eye protection equipment shall be provided when
   needed, and its use shall be strictly enforced. This requirement includes workers not actually
   involved but who are within the area and may be affected by flying or falling objects.
   25.3.6. Asbestos fibers can cause lung diseases such as asbestosis and cancer of the lung. If
   asbestos is used or already in place, safe handling procedures shall be IAW 29 CFR
   1910.1001, Asbestos. Workers shall not be exposed to unsafe levels of airborne asbestos.
   Consult BE prior to all planned asbestos projects. Immediately notify BE if asbestos is
   suspected or confirmed during a project. Workers shall not resume work until receiving
   proper guidance from BE. Refer toAFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health
   Exposure Controls, and AFI 32-1052, Facility Asbestos, for additional guidance.
   25.3.7. Confined Spaces. Confined spaces can pose serious health hazards to workers
   involved in entry. Supervisors and workers must be aware of potential hazards and
   precautions needed to avert a serious consequence. Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, addresses
   specific responsibilities, requirements and procedures for entry into confined spaces.
25.4. Shop Layout, Equipment, General Walking and Working Surfaces.
   25.4.1. Layout. Proper layout, spacing and arrangement of equipment, machinery,
   passageways and aisles are essential to orderly operations. Good layout is best achieved in
   the design stage, with recommendations from the installation Ground Safety office, Fire
   Emergency Services (FES) Flight, BE and CE. Whether a facility is in the design stage, being
   remodeled or repositioning of equipment and machinery is required, basic layout
   considerations are important factors in planning a facility for safe operations. All interior
   walking and working surfaces that are part of the means of egress shall comply with UFC 3-
   600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, and NFPA 101, The Life Safety Code.
   Refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial
   Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, and Chapter 18, Machinery, for additional guidance
   on proper layout, spacing and arrangement.
       25.4.1.1. Equipment and machinery shall be arranged to permit an even flow of
       materials. Sufficient space should be provided to handle the material with the least
       possible interference from or to workers or other work being performed. Place machines
       so the operator does not stand in a passageway, aisle or exit access. If this cannot be
       accomplished, the unit will submit an ORM review to the commander for approval prior
       to operation. Additionally, machine positioning should allow for easy maintenance,
       cleaning and removal of scrap. After the initial positioning of equipment and machines is
       decided, clear zones (work spaces) shall be established. These clear zones should be of
       sufficient dimensions to accommodate typical work. If material exceeds established clear
       zones, rope and stanchions may be used to temporarily extend the workspace. In cases
       where marking may be necessary, installation Ground Safety office and the shop
       supervisor will determine, based on hazard potential, which machine shops will require
       clear zones to be marked. When marking is used, yellow or yellow and black hash-
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         437



     marked lines, 2 to 3 inches wide, shall be used. Machines designed for fixed locations
     and those with shock-mounting pads shall be securely anchored and installed IAW
     manufacturer‘s instructions.
     25.4.1.2. Passageways and aisles shall be provided and marked to permit the free
     movement of employees bringing and removing material from the shop. These
     passageways are independent of clear zones and storage spaces. They shall be clearly
     recognizable. Floor markings should provide a contrast to the floor color, such as yellow
     lines 2 to 3 inches wide on a gray floor.
     25.4.1.3. Where powered materials handling equipment is used, facility layout shall
     provide enough clearance in aisles, on loading docks, and through doorways to permit
     safe turns. Aisles shall be at least two (2) feet wider than the widest vehicle used or most
     common material being transported.
     25.4.1.4. Aisles shall be at least 36 inches wide to permit free movement of workers,
     equipment and supplies, and at least 18 inches shall be provided for passageways formed
     by or between movable obstructions.
  25.4.2. Electrical Installations and Equipment.
     25.4.2.1. Supervisors will ensure work areas are inspected for possible electrical hazards.
     Sufficient workspace shall be provided and maintained around electric equipment to
     permit safe operation and maintenance of such equipment. Only qualified operators
     designated in writing by the supervisor shall be allowed to operate the equipment. This
     listing of personnel qualified to operate equipment shall be maintained in the work area.
     25.4.2.2. Frames of all electrical equipment, regardless of voltage, shall be grounded.
     25.4.2.3. Exposed non-current-carrying metal parts of electrical equipment that may
     become energized under abnormal conditions shall be grounded IAW NFPA 70, National
     Electrical Code.
     25.4.2.4. Exposed non-current-carrying metal parts of the following plug-connected
     equipment that may become energized shall be grounded or double insulated and
     distinctly marked:portable, hand-held, motor-operated tools, appliances or any equipment
     operated in excess of 150 volts to ground.
     25.4.2.5. Wires shall be covered wherever they are joined (e.g., outlets, switches and
     junction boxes).
     25.4.2.6. Parts of electrical equipment which in ordinary operation produce arcs, sparks,
     etc., shall not be operated or used in explosive atmospheres or in close proximity to
     combustible materials.
     25.4.2.7. Spring-loaded switches for equipment shall not be secured, e.g., taped or wired,
     in the ON position at any time.
     25.4.2.8. Flexible extension cords and power strips shall not be:
         25.4.2.8.1. Used as a substitute for fixed wiring.
         25.4.2.8.2. Run through holes in doors, windows, walls, ceilings or floors.
438                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         25.4.2.8.3. Attached to building surfaces, i.e., stapled/nailed to surfaces.
         25.4.2.8.4. Spliced, stapled, tacked or placed where they create a hazard or are
         subject to damage.
      25.4.2.9. Flexible extension cords may be used for temporary taskings if:
         25.4.2.9.1. Cords are of continuous lengths without splices or taps.
         25.4.2.9.2. Cords are fastened so there is no pressure on joints or screws of the plug
         or sockets.
         25.4.2.9.3. Cords are replaced when insulation has frayed or deteriorated.
         25.4.2.9.4. Cords of proper size and temperature rating to withstand the electrical
         load and approved by a recognized testing agency are used.
         25.4.2.9.5. Cord is a three-prong, dead-front plug type.
      25.4.2.10. Equipment connected by flexible extension cords shall be grounded either by
      a three-wire cord or by a separate ground wire (except double-insulated equipment).
      Refer to paragraphs 25.4.2.9 through 25.4.2.9.5.
      25.4.2.11. Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCI) shall be used on all 120-volt, single-
      phase, 15- and 20-ampere receptacle outlets at job sites when the receptacles are not a
      part of the permanent wiring of the building or structure. Receptacles on a two-wire,
      single-phase portable or vehicle-mounted generator rated not more than 5 kilowatts (kW),
      where the circuit conductors of the generator are insulated from the generator frame and
      all other grounded surfaces, need not be protected with GFCIs.
  25.4.3. Illumination. Adequate illumination shall be provided to ensure safe working
  conditions. Illumination for night work shall also be supplied for warning as well as work
  visibility. Essential regulatory information is listed below. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.26,
  Illumination, and 29 CFR 1926.56, Illumination.
      25.4.3.1. Portable lamps will have Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listed plugs, handles,
      sockets, guards and cords for normal working conditions. Lamps used in wet or damp
      locations shall be equipped with a waterproof housing. In flammable atmospheres,
      approved explosion-proof lights shall be used.
      25.4.3.2. For work in boilers, condensers, tanks, turbines or other grounded locations that
      are wet or may cause excessive perspiration, a low-voltage lighting system shall be used,
      either from a battery system or low-voltage lighting unit. Many organizations only permit
      a six or twelve volt system for tools and lights used inside boilers. These are usually
      connected to a transformer located outside of the boiler. Battery powered lights are an
      even safer alternative to installed systems. In situations where these lighting systems are
      not available, a vapor-proof 110-volt lighting system shall be used.
      25.4.3.3. Flashlights for use near energized electrical equipment and circuitry will have
      insulated cases.
      25.4.3.4. At least 50 foot-candles of illumination shall be provided at all work stations.
      However, fine work may require 100 foot-candles or more. This can be obtained with a
      combination of general lighting plus supplemental lighting. If fluorescent lighting is
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      439



     installed, it shall be installed in a manner to eliminate any stroboscopic effect with
     moving machinery. Standard fluorescent fixtures not designed with self-locking tubes
     shall be fitted with tube-retainer devices, screens or guards to prevent tubes from falling
     out. Consult installation CE whenever specific guidance on lighting is required and
     submit an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, when a lighting survey is
     required.
  25.4.4. Ventilation.
     25.4.4.1. Minimum safety, fire prevention and occupational health requirements
     pertaining to ventilation are addressed in this chapter. Ventilation and exhaust systems
     details, including information on flow-rate requirements, and the design of ventilation
     and exhaust systems are in the most current edition of the American Conference of
     Governmental Industrial Hygienists‘ (ACGIH) Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of
     Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance. BE will determine what, if any,
     periodic testing of ventilation systems is required IAW the above reference.
     25.4.4.2. Machines that generate dust, vapors, mists, etc., shall be connected to an
     effective industrial-exhaust ventilation system. In shops where small numbers of installed
     machines are not continuously in operation, portable collection systems may be used.
     Hoods and exhaust systems shall be constructed and installed IAW the manufacturer‘s
     instructions. Also, refer to Chapter 18.
     25.4.4.3. In areas where welding, soldering, brazing and burning hot-work operations are
     performed, fumes from operations contain the metals being welded together (e.g.,
     cadmium, zinc, lead, iron or copper). The filler material, flux and the coating on the
     welding rods used may generate other gases (e.g., carbon monoxide, arsine, or ozone) at
     concentrations hazardous to workers. When extensive hot-work operations are conducted,
     particularly in enclosed areas, excessive exposure to these materials could occur.
     Ventilation or respiratory protection may be required for these operations based on
     measured or calculated concentrations. Supervisors shall contact BE whenever workplace
     operations change, when new chemicals are introduced, processes or procedures change,
     or engineering controls are modified or added. When welding, soldering, brazing and
     other hot-work operations are performed in a space screened in on all sides, i.e., welding
     booths, screens or non-rigid heat/spark barriers, the screens shall be arranged to ensure
     adequate ventilation.
     25.4.4.4. Boiler and furnace rooms shall have ventilation to permit clean, safe
     combustion and to minimize soot formation. An unobstructed air opening shall be
     provided, sized on the basis of 1 square inch (645 square millimeter [sq mm]) free area
     per 2,000 British Thermal Units (BTU) maximum fuel input of the combined burners
     located in a boiler room. Air supply openings will be kept clear at all times and regularly
     inspected. ANSI Boiler Codes may be consulted for more detailed information on boiler
     ventilation and combustion air requirements.
  25.4.5. Walking-Working Surfaces. CE workers are frequently victims of falls at work sites
  inside and outside the shop. Walking and working surfaces often include a floor opening or
  platform through which persons may fall, such as a hatchway, stair or ladder opening, pit or
  large manhole. Elevated working spaces above the surrounding floor or ground, such as a
440                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  balcony or platform for the operation of machinery and equipment, may also be encountered
  by civil engineering personnel. Supervisors will ensure fall protection procedures or systems
  are available and used by workers where the potential of a fall from a height of four (4) feet
  or more exists. Refer to Chapter 7, Chapter 13 and 29 CFR 1910.23, Guarding Floor and
  Wall Openings and Holes, for additional guidance.
  25.4.6. Construction. Personal fall arrest or fall protection systems are often necessary to
  safely accomplish tasks performed from elevated surfaces during construction activities.
  Workers exposed to a walking or working surface (horizontal and vertical surface) with an
  unprotected side or edge, which is six (6) feet or more above a lower level, shall be protected
  from falling by the use of guardrail systems, safety net systems or personal fall arrest systems
  (PFAS). Refer to Chapter 13, 29 CFR 1926.501, Duty to Have Fall Protection, and
  paragraph 25.13.5 for information on roofing operations.
  25.4.7. Fixed ladders and requirements for guarding and training workers are addressed in
  Chapter 7 and 29 CFR 1910.27, Fixed Ladders. Any fixed ladder of 20 feet or more
  continuous length requires fall protection.
  25.4.8. When working over or near water:
      25.4.8.1. Where the danger of drowning exists, workers shall be provided with US Coast
      Guard-approved life jackets or buoyant work vests. This includes, but is not limited to,
      water-treatment ponds, storage tanks and Air Force operated Morale, Welfare and
      Recreation (MWR) recreational lakes or large ponds. Life jackets or buoyant work vests
      shall be worn at all times when workers are working alone over or near water.
      25.4.8.2. Prior to and after each use, buoyant work vests or life preservers shall be
      inspected for defects that would alter their strength or buoyancy. Defective units shall not
      be used.
      25.4.8.3. Where feasible, ring buoys with at least 90 feet of line shall be provided and be
      readily available for emergency rescue operations. Distance between ring buoys shall not
      exceed 200 feet.
      25.4.8.4. At least one lifesaving skiff shall be immediately available.
  25.4.9. Exits and Exit Markings. Essential regulatory information is included below. For
  additional guidance, see 29 CFR 1910.37, Means of Egress, General.
      25.4.9.1. Every exit will have ―EXIT‖ in plain legible letters not less than six (6) inches
      high with the strokes of the letters not less than 3/4 inch wide.
      25.4.9.2. Doors, passageways or stairways that are neither exits nor ways to an exit (but
      may be mistaken for an exit) shall be clearly marked ―NOT AN EXIT‖ (or similar
      designation) or by a sign indicating their actual use; for example: ―STORAGE ROOM‖
      or ―BASEMENT.‖
      25.4.9.3. When the direction to the nearest exit may not be apparent to an occupant, an
      exit sign with an arrow indicating direction shall be used.
      25.4.9.4. Exit access shall be arranged so it is unnecessary to travel toward any area of
      high hazard potential in order to reach the nearest exit (unless the path of travel is
      effectively shielded by suitable partitions or other physical barriers).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         441



       25.4.9.5. Exit signs shall be clearly visible from all directions of egress and shall not be
       obstructed at any time. If occupancy is permitted at night, or if normal lighting levels are
       reduced at times during working hours, exit signs shall be suitably illuminated by a
       reliable light source. New exit signs shall be the internally illuminated, light emitting
       diode (LED) type. Existing signs may be internally or externally illuminated. Use of
       radio luminescent signs is prohibited without the written approval of the USAF
       Radioisotope Committee. Replace and dispose of existing radio luminescent signs IAW
       AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force. As the installation
       Radiation Safety Office, BE will direct the proper disposal methods and guidelines.
       25.4.9.6. A door from a room to an exit or to a way-of-exit access shall be the side-
       hinged swinging type. It will swing out in the direction of travel if 50 or more persons
       occupy the room or the exit is from an area of high hazard potential.
       25.4.9.7. Areas around exit doors and passageways shall be free of obstructions. The exit
       route shall lead to a public way. The exit access must not go through a room that can be
       locked, nor may it lead into a dead-end corridor.
       25.4.9.8. Where occupants may be endangered by the blocking of any single exit due to
       fire or smoke, there shall be at least two means of exit remote from each other.
       25.4.9.9. Exits, exterior steps and ramps shall be adequately lighted to prevent mishaps.
       Separate lighting shall not be required if street or other permanent lighting gives at least
       one foot-candle of illumination on the exit, steps and ramp.
       25.4.9.10. Monthly testing of exit lights shall be accomplished IAW NFPA 101, The Life
       Safety Code.
   25.4.10. Housekeeping. See paragraph 5.9 for housekeeping in industrial areas.
   25.4.11. Machinery, Shop Equipment, Machine Guarding and Power Transmission
   Apparatus. Refer to Chapter 18.
25.5. Fire Prevention. All CE personnel shall receive fire prevention training as part of their
general non-supervisory (AFOSH) training. Training shall be documented IAW AFI 91-202.
Regulatory OSHA fire extinguisher requirements are IAW AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency
Services Programs. Also see Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention, and NFPA 10,
Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, for additional information.
   25.5.1. Supervisors in charge of operations where fuels, solvents or other flammable liquids
   are used shall be constantly alert for hazards and unsafe acts.
       25.5.1.1. Fuels such as gasoline shall never be used to clean floors or clothing.
       25.5.1.2. Solvents shall not be used as cigarette lighter fluid.
       25.5.1.3. Open solvent or gasoline containers shall not be kept near electrical equipment.
       25.5.1.4. The use of low flash point petroleum solvents shall be avoided whenever
       possible.
 442                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       25.5.1.5. Open flames, open element heaters, equipment not properly grounded and non-
       explosion-proof electrical equipment used in the presence of flammable or combustible
       liquids shall be avoided.
   25.5.2. Fire extinguishers with a rating of at least 2A80BC shall be installed in shop areas.
   The number of extinguishers depends upon the size and layout of the facility. The installation
   FES Flight shall be consulted for more detailed information on the type, selection,
   installation, inspection, maintenance and hydrostatic testing of portable fire extinguishers.
   Fire extinguishers will:
       25.5.2.1. Be kept fully charged and in their designated area.
       25.5.2.2. Be located along normal paths of travel.
       25.5.2.3. Not be obstructed or obscured from view.
       25.5.2.4. Be visually inspected by management or a designated worker at least monthly
       to ensure they:
          25.5.2.4.1. Are serviceable.
          25.5.2.4.2. Are in their designated places.
          25.5.2.4.3. Have not been tampered with or actuated.
          25.5.2.4.4. Do not have corrosion or other impairments.
          25.5.2.4.5. Are accessible and not obstructed.
       25.5.2.5. Be examined, and, if necessary, after inspection, recharged or repaired to
       ensure operability and safety. Attach a tag or keep a central record to indicate the
       maintenance or recharge date and signature or initials of the person performing the
       service/inspection.
       25.5.2.6. Be hydrostatically tested. Fire extinguishers shall be hydrostatically tested
       every five years IAW NFPA 10.
       25.5.2.7. Be placed so the maximum travel distance does not exceed 75 feet for Class A
       or 50 feet for Class B locations, unless there are extremely hazardous conditions.
   25.5.3. Smoking at job sites shall only be permitted in approved designated smoking areas
   and NEVER while performing work.
   25.5.4. Supervisors will ensure workers remove construction debris and rubbish from the job
   site upon completion of the job, or daily if extended beyond one day. Hazardous materials
   shall not be left at job sites unless properly stored. Work being performed on job sites shall
   not endanger building occupants (e.g., exits blocked, fire alarm devices disconnected, etc.).
25.6. Compressed Air.
   25.6.1. All workers shall be aware of the inherent dangers of using compressed air. Alternate
   methods of cleaning surfaces should be sought. Compressed air may be used if no alternative
   method of cleaning surfaces is acceptable. Compressed air shall never be used to blow debris
   from a person. The downstream pressure of compressed air will remain below 30 psi
   whenever the nozzle is dead-ended and then only when effective chip guarding and PPE are
   used. Face shield and safety goggles are required when cleaning with compressed air.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                             443



   25.6.2. All personnel assigned to shops with air compressors shall be familiar with
   compressor operating and maintenance instructions.
   25.6.3. The following are requirements for air compressors:
       25.6.3.1. The drain valve on the air tank shall be opened daily to prevent excessive
       accumulation of liquid.
       25.6.3.2. Air tanks shall be protected by adequate safety relief valves. These valves shall
       be tested at regular intervals (as required by manufacturers‘ specifications) to ensure they
       are in good operating condition. There shall be no valves between the air tank and the
       safety valve.
       25.6.3.3. The pressure controller and gauge shall be maintained in good operating
       condition.
       25.6.3.4. Air compressors shall be maintained strictly IAW manufacturer‘s instructions
       or an applicable TO.
       25.6.3.5. The maximum working pressure of compressed air lines shall be identified in
       psi. Pipeline outlets shall be tagged or marked showing maximum working pressure
       immediately adjacent to the outlet.
   25.6.4. Air supply lines shall be protected from damage by vehicles, tools and equipment.
   They shall be inspected regularly and maintained in good condition. Air supply lines shall be
   marked or tagged to identify the maximum psi on the lines. Tools shall never be raised or
   lowered by the air hose.
   25.6.5. Compressed Air Systems. Plumbing workers shall be trained and authorized to
   inspect, maintain or install compressed air systems. Before opening a compressed air line,
   workers shall ensure the line has been completely drained of existing air to prevent a sudden
   release of air that could cause the line to whip. The reverse is also true; when personnel have
   installed a new compresssed air system, all parts of the system shall be secured together
   before air is put into the system.
25.7. Jacks and Portable Hoists. Equipment maintenance personnel shall not use hydraulic
floor jacks, post jacks, portable hoists or mechanical jacks to support equipment while repair is
being accomplished. The equipment shall be blocked or placed on approved axle or frame stands
before repair operations are begun. Jacks used primarily in one location shall be inspected every
six (6) months, or before and after the jack is sent out of the shop for special work. Shop
personnel shall not use a jack or hoist that is leaking or is faulty in its operation. Faulty jacks and
hoists shall be taken out of service, tagged and not used until repaired. Load ratings shall be
stenciled or otherwise plainly marked on all jacks and hoists. Inspection dates shall be properly
documented by shop supervisors. Refer to paragraph 35.5.2.3 for guidance on inspecting hoists.
25.8. Shoring and Trenching. The walls and faces of excavations and trenches over five (5)
feet in depth, where workers may be exposed to danger of a cave-in, shall be guarded by a
shoring system, sloping and benching system or some other equivalent means consistent with 29
CFR 1926, Subpart P – Excavations. Trenches less than five (5) feet deep with hazardous soil
conditions, shall also be effectively protected. Refer to 29 CFR 1926, Subpart P - Excavations:
1926.650, Scope, Application and Definitions Applicable to Subpart P, 1926.651, Specific
 444                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Excavation Requirements, 1926.652, Requirements for Protective Systems, for additional
guidance. Note: A competent person will examine the excavation soil to determine the need for
a shoring system, sloping and benching system or some other equivalent means. A registered
professional engineer shall be consulted in areas required by 29 CFR 1926, Subpart P –
Excavations.
   25.8.1. Appropriate trench boxes or shields may be used instead of shoring or sloping.
   25.8.2. Tools, equipment and excavated material shall be kept two (2) feet or more from the
   lip of the trench. Where workers are required to be in or work in trenches 4-feet deep or
   more, an adequate means of exit such as ladders or steps shall be provided (within 25 feet of
   travel) and used.
   25.8.3. Trenches and excavations over five (5) feet deep or more shall be inspected daily by
   the supervisor in charge to ensure there are adequate slopes, shoring, benching and bracing,
   and no evidence of possible slides or cave-ins. A new inspection is required whenever
   supervision on the site changes and the new supervisor will document and sign the inspection
   document. More frequent inspections may be necessary as work progresses or after inclement
   weather conditions, such as rain, or where loose compacted or unstable materials are present.
   Inspection(s) shall be documented and signed by the supervisor and a copy of the inspection
   document(s) shall be maintained on the site at all times.
   25.8.4. Workers will take extra care when hand excavating in close proximity to utilities to
   preclude interruption of services, equipment damage or injury to workers, which can result
   from breaking electrical, gas or steam lines. Simple pre-planning, shoring and bracing, and
   hand digging around known utilities pipes and lines, should prevent most mishaps associated
   with excavations. AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request, shall be
   coordinated and approved before any digging commences.
   25.8.5. If a hazardous atmosphere exists or there is a potential for one to exist in the
   excavation (i.e., welding in/or near the excavations, other hazardous work activities,
   excavations in landfill areas or excavations in areas where hazardous substances are stored
   nearby), the atmospheres in the excavation shall be tested before workers enter excavations
   greater than four (4) feet in depth. The competent person shall consult with BE for proper
   atmospheric evaluation of the excavation.
   25.8.6. Where the competent person finds evidence of a situation that could result in a
   possible cave-in, indications of failure of protective systems, hazardous atmospheres or other
   hazardous conditions, exposed workers shall be removed from the hazardous area until the
   necessary precautions have been taken to ensure their safety. The proper precautions shall be
   taken by the competent person which may include the following:
       25.8.6.1. Cave-in. Fix the sloping and benching system or provide a shoring system. If
       cave-in is the result of water accumulation, then remove water and possibly use a shoring
       system if the competent person believes it is necessary.
       25.8.6.2. Failure of protective system. If there is evidence of failure to the protective
       system, stop the work and replace the protective system.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        445



       25.8.6.3. Hazardous atmosphere. If the competent person suspects a potential hazardous
       atmosphere or there is one in the trench, workers shall be removed from the trench and
       testing shall be accomplished. Refer to paragraph 25.8.5 for additional guidance.
       25.8.6.4. Water accumulation. Workers shall not work in excavations in which there is
       accumulated water, or in excavations in which water is accumulating, unless adequate
       precautions have been taken to protect workers against the hazards posed by water
       accumulation. The precautions necessary vary with each situation, but could include
       special support or shield systems to protect from cave-ins, water removal to control
       accumulating water or use of a safety harness and lifeline. Note: An attempt to remove
       the accumulating water shall be accomplished first.
25.9. Barricades and Traffic Signs. Whenever a common area is disturbed by CE
maintenance, repair or construction operations and presents a hazard to personnel in the area
(residents, other workers or passers-by), care shall be taken to warn these personnel and other
engineering workers of the potential hazard.
   25.9.1. Appropriate barriers shall be erected around excavations, open manholes, open
   electrical panels, etc., whenever they will be left unattended.
   25.9.2. Appropriate warning signs and steady or flashing warning lights for periods of
   reduced visibility (i.e., nighttime operations, inclement weather, fog) shall be posted a
   sufficient distance from the hazard to give ample advance warning to approaching pedestrian
   or vehicular traffic. For vehicular traffic, comply with Department of Transportation‘s (DOT)
   Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
   25.9.3. Airfield hazard warnings will comply with AFI 32-1042, Standards for Marking
   Airfields.
   25.9.4. Traffic control signs or devices will conform to the DOT‘s MUTCD.
   25.9.5. Workers exposed to vehicle traffic shall be provided with and required to wear
   warning vests marked with or made of reflector-type or high visibility material. Chapter 14
   provides additional guidance for these requirements.
   25.9.6. In some situations, the use of flagmen to control the flow of traffic may be necessary.
   Workers in equipment operations, pavement maintenance, plumbing, heating maintenance
   and exterior electrical career fields shall be trained in traffic control procedures.
25.10. Sanitation.
   25.10.1. Shop supervisors shall ensure shop personnel use the protective clothing and
   equipment that will protect them from hazards of the work they perform. It is the
   responsibility of workers to keep their PPE in a clean, sanitary state of repair and use the
   proper equipment when required.
   25.10.2. Workers shall keep their hands and face clean, change clothes when they are
   contaminated with solvents, lubricants or fuels and keep their hands and soiled objects out of
   their mouth. No food or drink shall be brought into or consumed in areas exposed to toxic
   materials, chemicals or industrial shop contaminants. After exposure to any contaminant,
   shop personnel shall wash their hands before eating or smoking. Safe drinking water shall be
   provided in or reasonably near all shops. Waste food from the lunch area shall be kept in a
 446                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   receptacle that is tightly covered and kept clean. Restrooms must be provided with hot and
   cold running water and shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition.
   25.10.3. Shop personnel required to wear protective clothing shall be provided with change
   rooms equipped with clothing lockers having separate storage facilities for clean and soiled
   clothing. Shower facilities shall be provided when necessary to remove contamination from
   skin.
   25.10.4. Clothing used daily and issued by the shop shall be cleaned and stored in shop
   lockers or fenced areas within the building. Workers shall inspect clothing and protective
   equipment daily for servicability and satisfactory condition. In addition, supervisors or a
   designated worker will spot check equipment and clothing. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.141,
   Sanitation, for additional guidance.
25.11. Restrictions. Long full beards, unrestrained long hair, frayed trouser and shirt cuffs,
loose clothing (such as loose shirt tails, improperly worn coveralls), loose shoe laces and torn
clothing can become caught in tools or machinery and cause serious injury to workers. Personal
grooming and appearance standards shall be enforced to prevent serious injuries should clothing,
hair or jewelry be caught in operating tools and machinery. Clothing worn shall be suitable to
weather conditions and work being done. Highly combustible garments or coveralls made of a
synthetic material such as nylon shall not be worn in or around high-temperature equipment or
operations such as boiler operations, hot-tar roofing, welding or any other work with open-flame
devices. Refer to AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, ETL 06-9, Arc Flash Personal
Protective Equipment (PPE) Requirements for High-Voltage Overhead Line Work at 69 kV
(Nominal) or Less, and Chapter 9, Jewelry, for additional guidance.
25.12. Equipment Operations and Pavements. CE construction equipment varies
considerably in size, age, capabilities and operating characteristics. Training outlines for operator
qualifications shall be tailored to the particular equipment and shall be updated as new
equipment is received. Equipment manufacturers normally have copies of their training guides
and operator manuals available for use in developing training outlines. ANSI standards on lifting
devices have additional information about some types of equipment. Appropriate PPE, e.g., hard
hats, as required, shall be used. 29 CFRs 1926.600, Equipment, 1926.601, Motor Vehicles,
1926.602, Material Handling Equipment, 1926.603, Pile Driving Equipment, 1926.604, Site
Clearing, 1926.605, Marine Operations and Equipment, and 1926.606, Definitions Applicable to
Subpart O, Motor Vehicles, Mechanized Equipment, and Marine Operations, contain general
requirements applicable to construction equipment. Additional information on PPE is listed in
Figure 25.1
   25.12.1. Backhoes. The front bucket, if so equipped, and outriggers shall be fully down
   before attempting to dig. To prevent being struck, workers shall not enter the area through
   which the digging arm can swing. To avoid being struck by spillage or falling materials,
   workers shall not be permitted under loads and they will stand away from any vehicle being
   loaded or unloaded. The operator will check overhead and lateral clearance for fixed
   obstructions such as trees, poles, wires, etc. Operation under energized electrical lines shall
   be permitted only where absolutely necessary. These operations shall be approved by the
   commander, and a spotter shall be used to constantly check clearance. Refer to AFI 32-1064,
   Electrical Safe Practices, and ETL 06-9, Arc Flash Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
   Requirements for High-Voltage Overhead Line Work at 69 kV (Nominal) or Less, for
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       447



  additional guidance. When traveling to and from job sites, the backhoe shall be completely
  folded, secured and centered and the front bucket raised only high enough to provide
  adequate ground clearance.
  25.12.2. Mobile Cranes.
     25.12.2.1. Operators. Mobile cranes shall be operated only by designated, qualified
     operators who possess a valid Operator‘s Identification Card, or by persons in training
     under the direct supervision of a qualified operator. The only other personnel who will
     enter a crane cab are persons such as supervisors and inspectors when duties require them
     to do so. A list of qualified crane operators shall be kept by the using organization with
     appropriate entries made in the individual‘s training record or on the applicable form(s).
     25.12.2.2. Operator Qualifications.
         25.12.2.2.1. Operator Exam. Potential crane operators shall pass a written
         examination containing the safety requirements of this chapter and Chapter 35,
         Materials Handling Equipment. They shall also be given a practical operating
         examination to demonstrate task-qualification to operate the crane safely. These
         examinations shall be developed by the using activity IAW AFI 24-301, Vehicle
         Operations. All vehicle lesson plans shall be coordinated through the Vehicle
         Operations Superintendant and Vehicle Fleet Manager and approved by the unit
         commander. Operator Records and Licensing shall maintain a copy of the approved
         lesson plan on file. The examination shall be administered by examiners appointed by
         the using activity.
         25.12.2.2.2. Medical Exam. Prior to assignment, operators shall be evaluated to
         determine their physical and mental capability to operate cranes. This examination
         shall include visual acuity, depth perception, hearing, peripheral vision, color vision,
         reaction time and knowledge of crane operations. The unit‘s vehicle control officer
         (VCO) will ensure this testing is conducted. Medical examinations shall be requested
         any time supervisors believe that inadequate operator performance may be due to
         physical or mental problems.
     25.12.2.3. Operating Practices.
         25.12.2.3.1. Operators shall not divert their attention elsewhere while operating the
         crane. They will first stop the crane, then proceed with the new task.
         25.12.2.3.2. Operators shall respond to signals only from the appointed signal person.
         A stop signal shall be obeyed at any time no matter who gives it.
         25.12.2.3.3. Operators shall be responsible for those operations under their direct
         control. Whenever there is any doubt as to safety, the operator shall have the authority
         and responsibility to stop and refuse to handle loads until safety has been ensured.
         25.12.2.3.4. If an audible warning signal is furnished, the operator will sound it each
         time before traveling and when approaching workers or other congested areas.
         25.12.2.3.5. Before leaving the crane unattended, the operator will:
            25.12.2.3.5.1. Land (set down) any suspended load, bucket, lifting magnet or
448                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         other device.
         25.12.2.3.5.2. Disengage clutch.
         25.12.2.3.5.3. Set travel, swing, boom brakes and other locking devices.
         25.12.2.3.5.4. Put controls in the ―OFF‖ or neutral position.
         25.12.2.3.5.5. Stop the engine.
         25.12.2.3.5.6. Secure crane against accidental travel.
      25.12.2.3.6. During periods of non-use or weather alerts, the operator shall lower the
      boom to ground level, to a resting platform or otherwise ensure the boom is secure
      against displacement from wind, loads or other outside forces.
      25.12.2.3.7. If there is a warning tag on the switch or engine starting controls, the
      operator shall not close the switch or start the engine until the warning tag has been
      removed by an authorized person.
      25.12.2.3.8. Before closing the switch or starting the engine, the operator will ensure
      all controls are in the ―OFF‖ position and all personnel are in the clear.
      25.12.2.3.9. If power fails during operation, the operator will:
         25.12.2.3.9.1. If practical, land the suspended load under brake control.
         25.12.2.3.9.2. Set all brakes and locking devices.
         25.12.2.3.9.3. Move all clutch or other power controls to the ―OFF‖ position.
      25.12.2.3.10. Operators shall familiarize themselves with the equipment and its
      proper care. The operator shall conduct a daily or prior-to-use inspection before using
      the crane. If adjustments or repairs are necessary, or any damage is known, the
      operator will report them promptly to the supervisor. Use AF Form 1800, Operator’s
      Inspection Guide and Trouble Report, to record daily or prior-to-use inspections and
      to report damage or need for repairs.
      25.12.2.3.11. All controls shall be tested by the operator at the start of a new shift. If
      any controls do not operate properly, they shall be adjusted or repaired before the
      operation is continued.
      25.12.2.3.12. Booms being assembled or disassembled on the ground, with or
      without support of the boom harness, shall be securely blocked to prevent dropping
      the boom and boom sections.
      25.12.2.3.13. Booms being manually telescoped shall be carefully repositioned prior
      to pinning to prevent injury to personnel.
      25.12.2.3.14. When rotating the crane, sudden starts and stops shall be avoided.
      Rotational speed shall be such that the load can be controlled. A tag or restraint line
      shall be used when rotation of the load is hazardous.
      25.12.2.3.15. When a crane is to be operated at a fixed radius, the boom hoist pawl or
      other positive locking device shall be engaged on rope-supported booms.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       449



        25.12.2.3.16. Ropes shall not be handled on a winch head without the knowledge of
        the operator. While a winch head is being used, the operator shall be within
        convenient reach of the power unit control level.
        25.12.2.3.17. On cranes having a powered telescoping boom, the hook is drawn
        closer to the boom head when hoisting, extending the boom or lowering a boom on
        machines where the winch is mounted stationary to the rear of the boom hinge. If the
        machine is not equipped with a ―two-blocking damage prevention feature,‖ the rope
        must be ―let-out‖ from the load hoist mechanism so the hook will not be jammed
        (two-blocked) against the boom head. The jammed condition may cause overload and
        result in rope or other component failure.
        25.12.2.3.18. Telescoping boom sections shall be telescoped in the manner and
        sequence specified by the manufacturer.
     25.12.2.4. Handling the Load. Refer to Chapter 35, Material Handling Equipment.
        25.12.2.4.1. No crane shall be loaded beyond its rated load. The weight of all loads
        shall be determined before lifting. Outriggers shall be set before lifting, telescoping
        the boom or turning a load within the ratings.
        25.12.2.4.2. A load shall not be transported on a crane unless the crane is designed
        for that purpose. Normally, the load will be placed on a vehicle designed and rated to
        handle the particular load and transported to the new location, where it can be off-
        loaded and placed by the crane without movement of the vehicles.
        25.12.2.4.3. When attaching the load, the hoist rope shall not be wrapped around the
        load. The load shall be attached to the hook by means of slings or other approved
        devices of proper capacity.
        25.12.2.4.4. When moving the load, the supervisor directing the lift will ensure:
            25.12.2.4.4.1. The crane is level and, where necessary, blocked properly.
            25.12.2.4.4.2. The load is well secured and properly balanced in the sling or
            lifting device before it is hoisted more than a few inches.
        25.12.2.4.5. Before starting to hoist, the operator will ensure:
            25.12.2.4.5.1. The hoist rope is not kinked.
            25.12.2.4.5.2. Multiple part lines are not twisted around each other.
            25.12.2.4.5.3. The hook is brought over the load in a way that prevents swinging.
            25.12.2.4.5.4. If there is a slack rope condition, the rope is properly seated on the
            drum and in the sheaves.
        25.12.2.4.6. During hoisting the operator will take care that:
            25.12.2.4.6.1. There is no sudden acceleration or deceleration of the moving load.
            25.12.2.4.6.2. Load and boom do not contact any obstructions.
        25.12.2.4.7. Side loading of booms shall be limited to freely suspended loads. Cranes
        shall not be used for dragging loads sideways.
450                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         25.12.2.4.8. The crane shall not be operated while anyone is on the load or hook.
         Warning: Riding on the hook or load is absolutely forbidden.
         25.12.2.4.9. The operator will not carry loads over personnel.
         25.12.2.4.10. On truck-mounted cranes, loads shall not be lifted over the front area
         unless specifically allowed in the manufacturer‘s operating instructions.
         25.12.2.4.11. The operator will test the brakes each time a load is handled by raising
         it a few inches and applying the brakes.
         25.12.2.4.12. Outriggers shall be used when the load to be handled at that particular
         radius exceeds the rated load without outriggers, as given by the manufacturer for that
         crane or if the ground where the lift is to be made is soft or otherwise unstable. Where
         floats are used, they shall be securely attached to the outriggers. Blocking used to
         support outriggers shall be strong enough to prevent crushing, be free from defects
         and be of sufficient width and length to prevent shifting or toppling of the crane under
         load.
         25.12.2.4.13. Neither the load nor the boom shall be lowered beyond the point where
         less than two full wraps of rope remain on their respective drums.
         25.12.2.4.14. When two (2) or more cranes are used to lift one load, one designated
         person shall be responsible for the operation. They will analyze the operation and
         instruct all personnel involved about proper positioning, rigging of the load and the
         movements to be made.
         25.12.2.4.15. While holding the load:
             25.12.2.4.15.1. The operator will not leave the position at the controls when the
             load is suspended.
             25.12.2.4.15.2. No person shall be permitted to stand or pass under a load on the
             hook.
             25.12.2.4.15.3. If the load hoist mechanism is not equipped with an automatic
             brake and the load must remain suspended for a considerable length of time, the
             operator will hold the drum from rotating in the lowering direction.
      25.12.2.5. Cranes in Transit. Before any crane (except for small truck cranes) is moved
      to a new job site, the route of travel shall be checked to determine that adequate
      clearances exist along the entire route and Base Operations shall be consulted to ensure
      appropriate NOTAMs are issued, if required; coordination shall be documented on AF
      Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request. This survey shall be
      conducted by the vehicle heavy-equipment supervisor and crane operator. Normal routes
      for assigned cranes shall be designated on an installation map and shall be approved for
      clearances by the installation Ground Safety office. The empty hook shall be secured to
      prohibit swinging and the boom shall be lowered to the boom rest or travel position. A
      red cloth or warning flag (at least 12 inches square) or a warning light shall be carried at
      the end of any boom that extends more than 4 feet beyond the truck platform. At night, a
      warning light (color according to local and state traffic codes) shall be used. The
      superstructure shall be secured to prohibit rotation except when there is an operator in the
      cab to ensure proper boom clearances around tight spots and corners. Additional vehicles
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       451



     shall be used to aid in warning other motorists if the crane boom or wide load poses a
     hazard to the front or rear.
        25.12.2.5.1. A designated supervisor shall be responsible for safe movement before a
        crane travels with a load. Decisions such as position of load, boom location, ground
        support, designated travel route and speed of movement shall be made by the
        supervisor. Specified manufacturer‘s tire pressures shall be maintained. The boom
        shall be carried in line with the direction of motion, sudden starts and stops shall be
        avoided and tag or restraint lines shall be used to minimize the swinging of the load.
        25.12.2.5.2. A crane shall never be moved with the boom so high that it may bounce
        back over the cab.
     25.12.2.6. Signals.
        25.12.2.6.1. Unless voice communication equipment is used, standard hand signals to
        the operator shall be used, and can be found in Figure 35.21. The operator shall not
        respond to any signal, except an emergency stop unless it is clearly understood.
        25.12.2.6.2. When moving the crane, the following audible signals shall be used:
            25.12.2.6.2.1. STOP. One audible signal.
            25.12.2.6.2.2. GO AHEAD. Two audible signals.
            25.12.2.6.2.3. BACK-UP. Three audible signals.
        25.12.2.6.3. If it is necessary to give instructions to the operator other than those
        provided herein, the crane motions shall be stopped.
     25.12.2.7. Operating Near Electric Power Lines.
        25.12.2.7.1. Overhead power exterior lines shall always be considered energized
        unless checked and certified de-energized by the electrical supervisor. Clearances and
        certifications for this type of work shall be annotated on AF Form 103. Refer to AFI
        32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, and ETL 06-9, Arc Flash Personal Protective
        Equipment (PPE) Requirements for High-Voltage Overhead Line Work at 69 kV
        (Nominal) or Less, for additional guidance.
        25.12.2.7.2. No part of a crane or its load shall be permitted to come within 10 feet of
        any energized electrical power line. When this is impractical, the electrical power line
        shall be de-energized and visibly grounded.
        25.12.2.7.3. For lines rated over 50 kilovolts (kV), minimum clearance shall be 10
        feet plus 0.4 inch for each kV over 50 kV. AF Form 103 shall be used and any
        additional clearance requirements, as identified and listed on the AF Form 103 by the
        exterior electric supervisor, but never less than 10 feet, shall be followed.
        25.12.2.7.4. A permanent sign shall be posted in the cab of the equipment in full
        view of the operator. This sign will read: ―DANGER—HIGH VOLTAGE—Do Not
        Operate Within 10 Feet of Electric Power Lines.‖
        25.12.2.7.5. A dielectric boom shield and insulated link installed in the lifting line at
        the hook will provide some protection against electric shock if the crane accidentally
452                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         comes in contact with energized electric lines. Proximity warning devices are not fail-
         safe and shall be used in addition to and not as a replacement for other controls. Even
         though shields, insulated hooks and proximity warning devices are used, the
         clearance criteria specified in paragraphs 25.12.2.7.2 and 25.12.2.7.3 shall be
         followed.
         25.12.2.7.6. If the boom of a rubber-tired crane contacts an electric power line, the
         entire piece of equipment will be energized since the rubber tires insulate the crane
         from the ground. Operators shall not attempt to leave the crane until they are certain
         that either the line is clear of the crane or that the line is deenergized, because to do so
         could result in electrocution. If the fuel tank or vehicle ignites, and operators cannot
         remain on the crane, they should jump, ensuring all parts of their body clear the crane
         before their feet touch the ground.
      25.12.2.8. Night Operations. Cranes operated during darkness shall have clearance lights
      installed. Working areas shall be illuminated so the signal person, loads, rigging,
      obstructions, etc., are readily visible.
      25.12.2.9. Clearance and General Requirements of Lifting Devices. Except as otherwise
      stated herein, mobile cranes will maintain at least two (2) feet of clearance from all walls,
      overhead trestles, columns and other structures. In operations where motorized or
      pedestrian traffic is anticipated or encountered, the working area will be blocked off or
      controlled to keep people and vehicles away. Refer to Chapter 35 for additional
      guidance for these requirements.
      25.12.2.10. A carbon dioxide, dry chemical or equivalent fire extinguisher shall be kept
      in the cab.
  25.12.3. Dump Trucks. Dump truck operators shall be trained IAW Air Force Qualification
  Training Package (AFQTP) 3E2X1-15 prior to operating any dump truck in the performance
  of his or her duties. Dump trucks shall not be operated with loads exceeding the
  manufacturer‘s rated capacity. Different materials have different specific weights (e.g., wet
  sand versus bark mulch) and, although the truck may have the volumetric capacity for the
  load, it may not have the weight capacity. Loads that pose a flying debris hazard shall be
  covered with a tarp or similar covering. Before dumping the vehicle‘s load, operators will
  always check overhead clearance both directly over the vehicle and ahead of it in the
  direction to be traveled while the body is still raised. Distances traveled with the bed raised
  shall be kept to a minimum. Workers shall not be permitted in the bed while it is being
  raised. The cab floor shall be kept clear of debris that could interfere with controls. The
  number of people carried in the cab will never exceed the number of seat belts installed.
  25.12.4. Motor Graders. Operators shall follow manufacturer‘s instructions of the particular
  equipment in use. Although similar in design, the variations in capabilities and operating
  characteristics are numerous. Clearances around machines can vary as much as several feet
  depending on the position of the mold board and circle, tilt of wheels, etc., and the operator
  must know these limits. Graders are noisy and often operated in dusty conditions. Proper
  hearing, respiratory and eye protection shall be provided and used, when required. Consult
  with installation Ground Safety office and BE on questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to
  Chapter 14 for additional guidance on PPE requirements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          453



  25.12.5. Wheeled Loaders. As with motor graders, the variety of wheeled loaders available
  to Air Force personnel is extremely varied. Operators shall be familiar with the operating
  characteristics of each vehicle and its limits. Such things as control positioning, turning
  radius and capacity vary widely. Solid frame equipment and articulated units are extremely
  different in handling characteristics, especially when being transported over the road. When
  traveling empty at excessive speed, a loader will bounce, weave or road walk. Loaders are
  noisy, and are frequently operated in dusty conditions. Proper hearing, respiratory and eye
  protection shall be provided and used, when required. Consult with installation Ground
  Safety office and BE on questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional
  guidance on PPE requirements.
  25.12.6. Bulldozers and Tracked Loaders. This equipment is available in a range of sizes
  from very small to large with a wide variety of attachments, e.g., swing blades, ripper teeth,
  and combination buckets. Bulldozers and tracked loaders are relatively slow moving; few are
  suitable for driving on streets and all are noisy. Each operator shall be thoroughly familiar
  with the equipment before being allowed to operate it without supervision. Proper hearing,
  respiratory and eye protection shall be provided and used, when required. Consult with
  installation Ground Safety office and BE on questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter
  14 for additional guidance on PPE requirements.
  25.12.7. Sweepers. As with other construction equipment there is a great variety of street,
  airfield and combination sweepers in the Air Force inventory. All, however, share some
  common traits in that they are noisy, can create great quantities of dust and have extremely
  poor rearward visibility. In vehicles equipped with air conditioning, dust is less of a factor. In
  vehicles without air conditioning, respiratory protection may be required. If not already
  evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Sweepers operating on the airfield shall
  be radio-equipped and will have the headset-type radio due to the high volume of noise from
  the rear engine and blower. When operating on active airfields, these vehicles shall be in
  direct contact with the control tower or escorted by a vehicle that is in contact with the
  control tower. Extreme caution shall be exercised when backing this equipment; the use of a
  spotter is mandatory. Hearing protection shall be worn when required. Refer to paragraph 2.3
  for additional guidance.
  25.12.8. Rollers. Self-propelled rollers are heavy equipment and are difficult to stop once put
  into motion. The operator shall be intimately familiar with the equipment, especially the
  turning arc and stopping distances. When it is necessary to transport a roller over the road
  under its own power, its slow speed can present a hazard to other vehicle operators.
  Supervisors will attempt to make all such movements during non-peak traffic periods. Since
  few rollers are equipped with lights, movement during periods of reduced visibility shall be
  avoided unless escort vehicles are provided front and rear.
  25.12.9. Concrete Saw. Personnel will stay clear of the front and blade operating side of the
  saw during operation. Cutter blades will be in good condition and not excessively worn,
  warped or broken. A good water supply shall be maintained to cool the cutting blade. Safety-
  toe shoes, goggles and hearing protection shall be worn during operation. Refer to paragraph
  2.3 and contact BE for an OEH risk assessment.
454                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  25.12.10. Pavement Breaker (Jackhammer). The tool shall always be worked away from the
  body. Proper lifting techniques shall be used and personnel cautioned not to twist the upper
  body while moving the tool. Sound footing shall be used and a firm grasp shall be kept on the
  tool at all times. The operator and personnel in the hazard zone of the operating site will wear
  appropriate safety-toe shoes, goggles and hearing protection; the operator will wear gloves. A
  respirator may be required when operations create dust. If process has not already been
  evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment.
  25.12.11. Router. Workers will keep their hands and feet clear of the cutting tool and
  maintain a firm grasp on the handle during operation. Safety shoes, goggles, hearing
  protection and gloves shall be worn during operation. All personnel exposed to hazards of the
  equipment will wear appropriate PPE. Consult with installation Ground Safety office and BE
  on questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance on PPE
  requirements.
  25.12.12. Concrete Mixer. Workers will keep their hands and arms clear of moving parts of
  the mixer. The mixer shall be supported in a stable position before operation. The hopper
  shall not be overloaded since this could cause equipment damage as well as injury to
  employees. Safety-toe shoes, goggles and hearing protection shall be worn when operating or
  working near the equipment, when required, and a respirator used if heavy concentrations of
  airborne cement dust are created during operation. Consult with the installation Ground
  Safety office and BE on questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional
  guidance on PPE requirements.
  25.12.13. Concrete Spall Repairs Using Polymer. Polymers are used extensively on airfields
  because of their quick setting properties. Most are composed of two (2) separate components
  and are hazardous to mix and place. Manufacturer‘s recommendations shall be followed for
  safe handling.
  25.12.14. Joint Seal Kettle-Melter.
      25.12.14.1. Kettles shall not be operated without installation FES Flight approval. A
      permit shall be obtained at least two (2) working days prior to the placement of the tar
      kettle.
      25.12.14.2. Serious burns can result from improper operation. Clothing that is loose
      fitting shall be worn. Pants will completely cover the legs to below the tops of shoes.
      Shirts shall be long sleeved. Loose-fitting gloves shall be worn.
      25.12.14.3. Safety-toe shoes and a face shield shall be worn. The operator and personnel
      handling the heated kettle product will wear face shields and gloves. All tripping hazards
      shall be removed from the vicinity of the worksite.
      25.12.14.4. Containers shall not be overfilled and shall be allowed sufficient room for
      the bitumen (tar) to slosh without spilling when the container is moved.
      25.12.14.5. Appropriate number and type of fire extinguishers shall be kept near the
      kettle.
      25.12.14.6. When adding bituminous or joint sealant materials to the kettle, the product
      shall be eased into the kettle to prevent splashing of heated materials on the operator. The
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      455



      kettle shall be watched closely and the products not heated above the safe heating
      temperature specified by the product manufacturer.
      25.12.14.7. Workers will never use direct heating of the materials. No open flame or
      source of ignition shall be permitted near an asphalt material that is heated to a
      temperature near its flash point. Wherever heating kettles are in use, the temperature of
      the product shall be controlled by thermostatic devices or checked at frequent intervals
      with an accurate thermometer to prevent overheating. Warning: Gasoline or other
      highly volatile solvents shall never be used for cleaning.
   25.12.15. Pavement Grinders (Line Eradicator or Paint Scraper). Workers will keep their
   hands and feet clear of the cutting wheels. The operator and personnel within the immediate
   work area will wear safety-toe shoes, goggles and hearing protection.
   25.12.16. Tampers. Workers will keep their hands and feet clear of the tamping tool. A firm
   footing shall be maintained while using this equipment. Safety-toe shoes and hearing
   protection are required when operating tampers.
   25.12.17. Pneumatic Drill. Safety-toe shoes, goggles and hearing protection shall be worn
   during operation. A firm grasp will be maintained on the tool. It shall be kept aligned with
   the hole to prevent binding. The tool shall not be forced.
25.13. Carpentry and Structural Maintenance.
   25.13.1. Potential physical and health hazards can be effectively controlled by following
   proper work procedures and controls, and by using required PPE. Figure 25.1 contains
   additional PPE guidance and information.) Prior to commencement of work, ensure
   personnel are not exposed to asbestos or lead-based paint. Contact installation Environmental
   Management office and BE for asbestos and lead verification. If lead or asbestos is found,
   contact BE for an OEH risk assessment.
   25.13.2. General Carpentry.
      25.13.2.1. Workers shall not leave a woodworking machine running unattended nor
      attempt to clear, clean, or repair the machine while it is operating. When maintenance is
      necessary, the machine shall be completely shut down and its control switches locked and
      tagged in the ―OFF‖ position according to instructions in Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy
      Control (Lockout and Tagout). Supervisors shall ensure periodic inspections are
      accomplished on all shop equipment. Chips or dust shall never be removed from
      machinery by hand. Machine guards shall not be removed nor made inoperative except
      for authorized maintenance. When guards are removed during machine repair, power
      control switches shall be locked in the ―OFF‖ position and properly tagged. The machine
      will remain locked until the guards are replaced.
      25.13.2.2. PPE worn while operating machinery, equipment and saws normally consists
      of eye protection, safety-toe boots and hearing protection. Other safety-related PPE
      include respirators and kneepads to protect the knees where workers must kneel while
      working. Refer to paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
      for additional guidance. Hard hats are required in lumber storage areas and on job sites
456                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      where the potential exists for being struck by falling objects, e,g., roofing and
      construction materials.
      25.13.2.3. See general guidance that applies to both carpentry and structural maintenance
      work methods or tools. The following specific guidance applies to table saws:
         25.13.2.3.1. Keep hands out of the line of cut when feeding table saws. Use a push
         stick when close to the blade.
         25.13.2.3.2. Adjust saw to expose the least amount of saw blade above table and
         material being cut.
         25.13.2.3.3. Always stand out of line of stock being ripped.
         25.13.2.3.4. Hold stock being cut against a gauge when cutting with a circular table
         saw.
         25.13.2.3.5. Always use the appropriate saw for the cut. For instance, it would be
         unsafe to rip with a crosscut saw or to crosscut with a rip saw.
         25.13.2.3.6. Avoid crosscutting long boards on a table saw. Normally, long stock
         may be crosscut on a radial arm saw.
         25.13.2.3.7. Never adjust the saw or fence gauge while the saw is operating.
         Designate the line of cut on the table top with a permanent mark when setting the
         gauge of a table saw without removing the guards.
         25.13.2.3.8. Always use a brush or stick to clean or scrape sawdust from a saw.
  25.13.3. Ventilation Systems.
      25.13.3.1. Ventilation. Only essential safety, fire prevention and occupational health
      requirements are addressed in this standard. Contact BE for specific guidance, including
      information on flow rate requirements. Ventilation and exhaust systems shall be installed
      and maintained IAW the manufacturer‘s instructions.
      25.13.3.2. Application. Machines that develop fine dust or other airborne contaminants
      shall be equipped with effective industrial exhaust ventilation. In shops where small
      numbers of installed machines are not continuously in operation, portable collection
      systems may be used. Hoods and exhaust systems shall be constructed and installed to
      meet requirements in ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended
      Practice for Operations and Maintenance. Refer to Chapter 18, Machinery, for
      additional guidance.
      25.13.3.3. Exhaust Ducts and Pipes. These shall be constructed and sized to minimize
      clogging and shall discharge into an enclosed container.
      25.13.3.4. Refuse. Refuse shall be removed daily in all operations not required to have
      an exhaust system or where the refuse cannot be handled by an exhaust system.
  25.13.4. Storage and Handling of Lumber.
      25.13.4.1. Storage areas for lumber and other building materials can be hazardous. For
      example, when lumber is stored upright, precautions shall be taken to prevent it from
      falling into aisles or passageways. Lumber stored in tiers shall be stacked, blocked and
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        457



     interlocked. The stacks shall be limited in height so they are stable and secure against
     sliding or collapse. Storage areas shall be kept free of accumulations of materials that
     constitute tripping, fire or explosion hazards. Smoking shall not be permitted in outside
     or inside storage areas, and signs to this effect shall be posted. Refer to AFJMAN 23-210,
     Joint Service Manual (JSM) for Storage and Material Handling, for specific storage
     requirements.
     25.13.4.2. When heavy stock cannot be safely handled by workers, suitable mechanical
     lifting devices shall be used.
     25.13.4.3. Gloves shall be worn to reduce injury potential to the hands from splinters or
     from being pinched between stacks. Accidental movement of stacked material can cause
     serious injuries. Caution shall be taken not to disturb other tiers when removing partial
     stacks.
     25.13.4.4. Manual handling is relatively safe if proper lifting and carrying positions are
     used. Balanced handling is the key to safe handling. However, disregard of accepted safe
     practices can result in injuries such as hernias, back strains, crushed hands and feet,
     broken bones and severe lacerations.
  25.13.5. Roofing Operations.
     25.13.5.1. Roof work, because of its nature and the environment, has a high mishap
     potential. Pre-planning, refresher worker training, pre-job briefings and following
     required safeguards can prevent mishaps. Prior to commencement of work, ensure
     personnel are not exposed to asbestos. Contact the installation Environmental
     Management office and BE for asbestos verification. If asbestos is found, contact BE for
     an OEH risk assessment.
     25.13.5.2. Roofing materials shall be segregated by type and size in stable stacks that are
     safe from falling.
     25.13.5.3. Ladder requirements are included in Chapter 7. Chicken ladders or crawling
     boards shall have cleats spaced at equal intervals not to exceed 24 inches.
     25.13.5.4. Workers engaged in roofing activities on low-slope roofs (a roof having a
     slope less than or equal to 4 in 12 [vertical to horizontal]), with unprotected sides and
     edges 4 feet or more above lower levels shall be protected from falling by guardrail
     systems, safety net systems, PFAS or a combination of warning line system and guardrail
     system, warning line system and safety net system, warning line system and PFAS, or
     warning line system and safety monitoring system. Scaffolding and fall protection
     systems shall be inspected daily and/or prior to use by the supervisor. Inspections shall be
     documented, signed by the supervisor and maintained on the job site at all times. On
     roofs 50 feet or less in width, the use of a safety monitoring system alone (i.e. without the
     warning line system) is permitted. Workers on a steep roof with unprotected sides and
     edges four feet or more above lower levels shall be protected from falling by guardrail
     systems with toe boards, safety net systems or PFAS. Proper PPE is identified in
     Chapter 14 and Figure 25.1 Additional guidance on fall protection may be found in
     Chapter 13 and 29 CFR 1926.501.
458                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      25.13.5.5. Additional guidance on scaffolding is included in Chapter 17, Scaffolding.
      Refer to ANSI A10.8, Safety Requirements for Scaffolding, 29 CFR 1926.451, Scaffolds,
      General Requirements, and 29 CFR 1926.500, Fall Protection Scope, Application and
      Definition Applicable, for additional guidance.
      25.13.5.6. To avoid splashing, asphalt and drip-dried material pieces shall be slipped
      rather than pitched into kettles containing melted bitumen.
      25.13.5.7. Workers shall not stand or work below any hoisted materials or hot
      substances.
      25.13.5.8. All housekeeping standards shall be followed to prevent injuries to workers
      and others who may pass near the roofing work site. Unsupervised open-flame devices,
      improper storage, and improper disposal of waste materials may cause a fire. Contact the
      installation Environmental Management office for proper disposal guidelines.
      25.13.5.9. PPE will consist of eye and face protection, foot and leg protection, proper
      clothing and gloves, and hard hats for working with hot or cold application roofing
      maintenance or where overhead work is being performed. If process not already
      evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to Chapter 14 and Figure 25.1
      for additional PPE information and paragraph 2.3 for additional information on
      respiratory protection.
      25.13.5.10. Tar kettles and pots, when used, shall be located so they shall not be a fire
      threat to surrounding buildings or other structures. When in operation, tar kettles and
      pots shall not be left unattended for extended periods of time, due to the possibility of
      fire. After use of the kettle, heavy tar buildup shall be cleaned from plumbing pipes.
      Refer to paragraph 25.12.14.1 for permit requirements. Additional information can be
      found in NFPA 241, Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition
      Operations.
  25.13.6. Masonry.
      25.13.6.1. Mixing Concrete and Mortar. Mixing concrete and mortar, whether performed
      manually or by motorized mixers, is a very strenuous and often hazardous operation.
      During the operation, masonry shop workers will come in contact with Portland Cement.
      Workers will use every means possible to prevent inhalation, ingestion, or body contact
      with cement dust. Portland Cement will cause chemical burns and rashes when it comes
      in contact with parts of the body. Portland Cement can seep inside worker‘s shoes.
      Generally, once detected, feet and toes have already suffered permanent damage, and the
      worker may require hospitalization. Protective clothing and boots shall be worn when
      mixing concrete and mortar. If process not already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk
      assessment. Shop supervisors shall train new employees in the proper techniques for
      mixing and handling concrete and mortar. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance
      on respiratory protection.
      25.13.6.2. Brick and Concrete Block Work. Brick and concrete block operations include
      carrying brick, concrete or cinder block and mortar on the job site as well as putting them
      in place. Shop supervisors will ensure proper lifting and carrying techniques are used.
      They will also ensure workers raise or lower needed tools and materials by handlines
      after reaching the work position. No tools or materials will be carried at no time while
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      459



     ascending or descending ladders. Tools and materials may be transported by scaffold as
     long as load capacity is not violated. Refer to Chapter 4, Manual Material Handling and
     Lifting Techniques, for additional guidance.
     25.13.6.3. Cleaning and Etching Old and New Brick and Concrete Work. As a part of
     brick and concrete work, masonry workers may be required to clean or etch old and new
     work. Some agents used in this operation contain tri-sodium phosphate (TSP), muriatic
     acid and potassium or sodium hydroxide. TSP shall not come into contact with aluminum
     as hydrogen gas may form and cause an explosive hazard. Shop personnel shall be aware
     of the hazards associated with this work. Workers, when diluting muriatic acid, will never
     add water to the acid; they will always add the acid to water. Proper PPE shall be worn.
     Refer to Figure 25.1 for additional guidance.
     25.13.6.4. Fiberglass Work. When repairing fiberglass components such as tanks,
     bathtubs, shower stalls and lavatories, workers may be exposed to fiberglass filler,
     epoxies, resins, accelerating agents and ketones or acetone. Workers shall be aware of
     fire hazards associated with mixing epoxies and resins with accelerating agents and
     ketones. Workers shall be aware that ketone mixers are highly toxic and narcotic and
     could result in dizziness and nausea if inhaled. The supervisor will consult with BE to
     ensure worker exposure is monitored and appropriate respiratory protection requirements
     are established. Refer to Chapter 33, Composite Materials, for additional guidance.
     25.13.6.5. Storage and Handling of Sand, Grout, and Cement. Sand and aggregate
     materials are often delivered in bulk form for shop use. Sand shall be covered to prevent
     it becoming wet during inclement weather. Also, grout and cement shall be kept in a dry
     place to prevent hardening. Workers shall wear the proper respiratory protection (as
     required), eye protection, clothing, and shoes when handling cement and grout
     compounds.
     25.13.6.6. Care and Use of Power Mixers and Trowels. Cement mixers are operated with
     electric or gasoline motors or engines and are chain or belt driven. Gears, pulleys, chains
     or belts on power mixers shall be guarded to prevent workers being caught in them. The
     power source for electrically operated mixers shall be grounded. Power cords shall not be
     allowed to fray or break, exposing bare wires. The area surrounding electrically operated
     mixers shall be kept as dry as possible to prevent electrocution of the operator if an
     electrical malfunction occurs. Workers will not smoke during refueling operations on
     those mixers operated by gasoline engines. Hot engines shall not be refueled until they
     cool. All mixers shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use. Powered trowels or screens
     used to compact and smooth concrete shall be cleaned after each use and inspected for
     damage and serviceability prior to each use.
     25.13.6.7. Preparation of Footings. Precautions that shall be taken by workers prior to
     pouring footings include:
        25.13.6.7.1. Identifying the location of underground utilities such as gas, electric or
        water.
        25.13.6.7.2. Study pre-excavation conditions such as soil conditions and hydrostatic
        pressure to evaluate changes that might occur or situations that might develop.
 460                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          Generally, masonry shop workers will not arrive at the job-site to pour footings until
          all preparations have been made. They shall be made aware of existing hazards prior
          to pouring footings.
25.14. Protective Coating Maintenance.
   25.14.1. General Requirements. Interior spray, airless and electrostatic painting facilities and
   requirements are addressed in Chapter 28, Interior Spray Finishing. General safety
   requirements of paragraph 25.1 address ladders, scaffolds, lifelines, housekeeping and fire
   prevention that apply to painting operations. Refer to Figure 25.1 and Chapter 14 for
   additional PPE information. Ventilated lockers for clothing and shower facilities located
   separately from the shop shall be provided.
   25.14.2. Occupational Health and Toxic Materials.
       25.14.2.1. Pigments, Extenders and Fillers. The dry constituents of paints such as
       pigments, extenders, and fillers shall be handled carefully in receiving and storage areas
       as well as in product formulations to prevent overexposure of workers to airborne dusts.
       Spills shall be promptly cleaned up before the material is spread throughout the area. If
       during the addition of the pigments or extenders workers could be overexposed to toxic
       dusts, controls shall be instituted. If process not already evaluated, contact BE for an
       OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance on respiratory
       protection. All inorganic pigment should be considered as potentially toxic. These
       hazards may exist in application of new paint, and in removal of old paint.
          25.14.2.1.1. Special care shall be given to avoid overexposure of workers when
          pigments containing lead and metallic chromates (corrosion inhibitors), cadmium,
          copper or cobalt are used. Contact installation Environmental Management office for
          environmental concerns. If process not already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk
          assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance on respiratory protection.
          25.14.2.1.2. Arsenic and mercury compounds used in anti-fouling marine paints shall
          be handled carefully. Employees may inhale these materials, and if good personal
          hygiene is not observed, employees may ingest significant amounts through contact
          of dirty hands with food or cigarettes.
          25.14.2.1.3. Extenders or fillers such as silica, asbestos, talc or mica, when breathed
          in excessive amounts, will cause fibrosis in the lungs. Symptoms from overexposure
          to silica may not appear for 10 or more years depending on exposure levels and
          duration.
          25.14.2.1.4. Asbestos extenders or fillers shall not be used.
          25.14.2.1.5. Fillers containing talc or mica, although not as hazardous as free silica or
          asbestos, can also lead to lung damage. Employee exposure shall be controlled.
          25.14.2.1.6. A pigment such as titanium dioxide or a filler such as gypsum is
          considered a ―nuisance‖ dust. Dust levels must be controlled to ensure good visibility,
          prevent eye irritation and prevent lung deposits.
       25.14.2.2. Organic Solvents. Organic solvents are widely used in painting. Solvents are
       used to suspend pigments, dissolve film-forming oil materials and as thinners to dilute
       paints and reduce paint viscosity. All organic solvents have some effect on the central
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         461



      nervous system and the skin. The principal modes of exposure are inhalation of vapors
      and skin contact. Some solvents can be absorbed through the intact skin and migrate to
      the bloodstream. Excessive solvent vapor inhalation may cause impairments that have no
      discernible permanent effects on health, such as lack of coordination and drowsiness, but
      which may increase the risk of accidents. In other cases, exposure may result in serious
      damage to the blood, lungs, liver, kidneys and gastrointestinal tract. Supervisors will
      acquaint themselves and their employees with the properties and hazards of the solvents
      they use. Skin contact with solvents may cause dermatitis, ranging in severity from a
      simple irritation to actual damage to the skin. Even the most inert solvents can dissolve
      the skin‘s natural protective barriers of fats and oils, leaving the skin unprotected. When
      these natural lubricants are removed, the skin becomes subject to disabling and possibly
      disfiguring dermatitis and infection.
      25.14.2.3. Measures to control exposures to solvents include substitution of a less toxic
      solvent, mechanical exhaust ventilation and use of protective clothing. Substitution of a
      less toxic or less volatile solvent is effective in controlling solvent exposure and reducing
      the hazard potential. However, this control method is more easily instituted when the
      actual function of the solvent is less specific than it is in paint formulating, such as in
      metal cleaning or degreasing operations. Substitution of a material or product should be
      accomplished when the replacement material or product would significantly reduce or
      eliminate risk to worker health and safety. The use of closed systems and local exhaust
      ventilation is an effective way of preventing solvent vapors from entering the workers‘
      breathing zone. Containers of flammable solvents shall be covered when not in use. Local
      exhaust ventilation can remove vapors at their point of origin and thus prevent toxic
      concentrations in the workplace. If good personal hygiene is not observed, workers may
      ingest significant amounts of toxins through contact of dirty hands with food or
      cigarettes. The skin should always be protected from contact with solvents. Gloves, face
      shields, goggles and other protective clothing may be used. Do not wash skin with any
      raw organic solvent. Although some solvents are less toxic than others, good safety
      practices dictate that care be exercised when using any organic solvents.
25.15. Plumbing Maintenance.
   25.15.1. Plumbing maintenance normally includes the installation, preventive maintenance
   and repair of water supply systems, sewage and water disposal systems, natural, liquefied
   petroleum gas (LPG) or other gas supply systems (to include gas appliances) and oxygen
   supply systems. Hazards encountered during plumbing maintenance include, but are not
   limited to, entry into an oxygen-deficient atmosphere (enclosed area or confined space), fire
   or explosion by introducing an ignition or flame source into a hazardous environment, falls,
   cave-in of excavated area, burns from heat-producing equipment, strains and sprains of the
   back or other muscle group, cuts and bruises. Working in confined spaces, handling heavy
   and awkward materials, being subjected to numerous obstructions in limited working space
   and health related hazards are conducive to mishaps. Plumbing maintenance workers shall be
   knowledgeable of these hazards and conditions and take reasonable actions to prevent
   mishaps before they occur. Refer to Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, for confined space entry
   procedures and requirements.
462                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  25.15.2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Ventilated clothing lockers, shower facilities
  separate from the shop and clean towels shall be provided. Refer to Figure 25.1 and
  Chapter 14 for additional PPE guidance.
  25.15.3. General Safety, Fire Prevention and Occupational Health Requirements.
  Requirements that apply to plumbing maintenance are in paragraph 25.1. Other sources of
  guidance may be found in AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention Program, and ANSI B208.1,
  Portable Pipe Threading Machines and Portable Power Drives.
  25.15.4. Hot Operations.
      25.15.4.1. Torches and Furnaces. Work and storage areas for this equipment shall be
      well ventilated. Refer to Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing, Chapter 36,
      Hydrocarbon Fuels, NFPA 51, Standard for the Design and Installation of Oxygen-Fuel
      Gas Systems for Welding, Cutting, and Allied Processes, and Chapter 22, Flammables
      and Combustibles, for additional information.
         25.15.4.1.1. No one shall be permitted to use a torch or furnace until trained on its
         use and familiar with the operating instructions.
         25.15.4.1.2. Where flammable or explosive vapors or dust may be present, torches
         and furnaces shall not be used until the atmosphere has been tested and the sources of
         such vapors or dust removed.
         25.15.4.1.3. Gasoline blowtorches and furnaces shall not be used in small,
         unventilated spaces since they could cause explosions or create an oxygen deficient
         atmosphere. Acetylene gas shall never be brought in contact with metal powders such
         as copper or silver as the combination may react with explosive atmospheres.
         25.15.4.1.4. Heating pots shall be placed on non-combustible surfaces and heated
         slowly to prevent overflow or ignition of material in them. Material shall be broken
         into small pieces before being placed into heat pots.
         25.15.4.1.5. Combustible materials in locations where torches or furnaces are used
         shall be protected or kept far enough away to prevent being subjected to sparks or
         dangerous temperatures. Appropriate type fire extinguishers shall be available. Refer
         to Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, for additional requirements and
         necessary permit(s).
      25.15.4.2. Soldering and Brazing. Soldering and brazing is the joining of metal parts by
      melting a fusible alloy. When solders used have a melting point above 800° F, the
      procedure is called brazing.
         25.15.4.2.1. Improper equipment or unsafe practices may cause lead poisoning,
         irritation from fluxes, burns, electric shock or fires.
         25.15.4.2.2. The concentration of toxic fumes and irritants at the breathing level of
         the operation shall be checked. Where required because of toxic fumes, a respirator or
         adequate ventilation shall be provided. Lead-tin, zinc, silver, cadmium and antimony-
         tin solders can pose moderate to serious health hazards. If welding, soldering and
         brazing operations have not been evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment.
         Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       463



         25.15.4.2.3. Electric soldering irons shall be grounded unless of double-insulation
         construction. All soldering irons shall be placed in suitable non-combustible
         receptacles when not in use.
         25.15.4.2.4. When required, an AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, shall be
         obtained for these operations. Refer to Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting and Brazing,
         Figure 27.1 and Table 27.2 for additional information.
         25.15.4.2.5. Appropriate safety eyewear shall be worn during all soldering and
         brazing operations.
  25.15.5. Industrial Waste Drains. Entry into industrial waste manholes require the same
  precautions as other manholes. Applicable PPE and special consideration shall be given to
  the specific material carried by the system. The installation Ground Safety office shall be
  contacted for guidance concerning PPE and specific hazards. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for an
  OEH risk assessment and Chapter 23 for confined space entry procedures and requirements.
  25.15.6. Storm Drains. Hazards associated with storm drains include:
     25.15.6.1. Manhole Covers. Manhole covers are heavy and closely fitted to the manhole
     opening. Never attempt to lift a cover without using proper pry bar tools, special lifting
     tools and additional help where needed. Ensure fingers and toes do not remain under
     manhole covers when putting them down.
     25.15.6.2. Hazards. Insects, animals and snakes may nest or den in storm drains. Hazards
     encountered include:
         25.15.6.2.1. Stings from wasps, spiders, scorpions and ants that could cause pain,
         swelling and lead to toxic shock.
         25.15.6.2.2. Bites from animals that could lead to rabies.
         25.15.6.2.3. Bites from poisonous snakes that could be fatal or cause gangrene.
     25.15.6.3. Requirements. Prior to working in storm drains, inspect and clear the drains of
     dangerous insects, animals or snakes and glass, wire and other hazardous trash. Wear
     proper protective clothing, hard hats, boots and gloves while working in storm drains.
  25.15.7. Gas Systems. Maintenance of gas systems includes natural gas, LPG, oxygen,
  nitrogen or nitrous oxide. Shop personnel shall be familiar with the properties of gases in the
  systems they maintain. Until proven otherwise, all escaping gases shall be considered
  flammable. Prior to entering an area where a gas leak is suspected, the area shall be properly
  vented and purged of existing gas. Personnel entering the area shall be suited with proper
  protective equipment and respiratory protective devices. Consult with installation Ground
  Safety office and BE with questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional
  guidance. For oxygen-deficient atmospheres, suppied air systems with a special emergency
  escape air supply are required and shall be used. Tools used to repair leaks in or perform
  maintenance on gas lines shall be spark-free and protective clothing shall be static-free.
  When working on oxygen dispensing lines, workers will not use tools and equipment coated
  with flammable or combustible lubricating substances or grease.
  25.15.8. Tunnels, Pits and Sumps.
 464                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       25.15.8.1. Where shop personnel are required to work in utility tunnels, pits and sumps,
       the atmospheric conditions shall be checked for explosive atmosphere or oxygen
       deficiency before allowing workers to enter. Personnel shall be suited with proper
       protective equipment and respiratory protective devices, when required, while performing
       maintenance to underground utilities. Consult with the installation Ground Safety office
       and BE on questions pertaining to PPE. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for an OEH risk
       assessment and Chapter 14 for additional guidance on PPE. All tunnels, pits or sumps
       known to be contaminated shall be tagged or otherwise identified for work crews.
       Workers shall be assigned in pairs for work on underground utilities. All known
       contaminated tunnels, pits and sumps shall be ventilated while work is in progress.
       Smoking or open flames shall never be permitted in or around known or suspected
       contaminated tunnels, pits or sumps. Spaces determined to be permit required confined
       spaces shall be entered under all provisions addressed IAW Chapter 23.
       25.15.8.2. When manhole covers are removed, barriers shall be installed to prevent
       injury to personnel not associated with the work in progress.
       25.15.8.3. When a non-permit required confined space manhole or vault is open, at least
       one member of the crew shall be stationed at the surface as the observer. This person will
       remain at the post and not leave for any reason, except self-preservation, unless replaced
       by an equally qualified individual. The observer will order the entrants to exit the space if
       the observer must leave and there is no replacement. The observer will not enter the
       confined space to attempt rescue without proper training and access to necessary
       equipment and personnel. Additionally, where removal of a victim would be difficult, an
       approved lifeline equipped with a wrist harness shall be worn by the person entering the
       area to facilitate rapid removal if necessary. Note: Under no circumstances will a person
       enter a subsurface structure for any reason without a second person to act as an observer
       and to obtain assistance in the event of an emergency. Refer to Chapter 23 for additional
       guidance on work in confined spaces
25.16. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Maintenance.
   25.16.1. Refrigeration and air conditioning maintenance personnel must be aware of the
   hazards of tasks they perform and the tasks performed around them. Potential hazards include
   hazardous noise, electrical hazards, exposure to refrigerants (possible asphyxiation if in
   enclosed areas or confined spaces), frostbite, lifting hazards, and compressed gases and
   cylinders. Potential physical and health hazards can be effectively controlled by following
   the proper work procedures and controls and using required PPE. Figure 25.1 contains
   additional guidance regarding PPE.
   25.16.2. General Requirements.
       25.16.2.1. Equipment rooms (e.g., where air conditioning equipment is installed) shall be
       kept free and clear of all trash and clutter that could present tripping or fire hazards.
       Provide guards or shields for refrigerant hot or cold gas piping or moving parts to prevent
       injury to workers who may accidentally come in contact with it. Equipment rooms shall
       not be used for storage of materials.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       465



     25.16.2.2. All belts, pulleys and rotating shafts shall be guarded to prevent accidental
     contact. Large valve handle stems which can present a bump or trip hazard shall be
     marked (color coded) for easy recognition.
     25.16.2.3. Electrical parts of the equipment and controls will have all covers and plates
     in place. Wiring shall be properly secured to the equipment or structure. Exposed metal
     surfaces shall be grounded IAW NFPA 70, Article 250.
  25.16.3. Storage and Handling. Improper storage and handling of compressed gas cylinders
  can injure workers.
     25.16.3.1. Cylinders shall be legibly marked with the type of gas contained and stored
     with minimum intermingling of types of refrigerant and shall be stored separately from
     flammable gases and oxygen.
     25.16.3.2. Where caps are provided for valve protection, they shall be kept in place at all
     times until the cylinder is actually in use. Valves shall be kept closed at all times except
     when the cylinder is in use.
     25.16.3.3. Cylinders shall not be used as rollers or supports. Their only use is to contain
     the gas.
     25.16.3.4. Non-refillable containers, such as Department of Transportation (DOT) 2P,
     DOT 2Q, and DOT-39 containers, shall not be refilled with any material after use of the
     original contents. Containers shall be disposed of according to the manufacturer‘s or
     filler‘s instructions, or by the directions provided from the installation Environmental
     Management office.
     25.16.3.5. Cylinders shall not be dragged, slid, dropped, or allowed to strike each other
     or solid objects violently. Whenever possible, a suitable hand truck or roll platform shall
     be used.
     25.16.3.6. Cylinders shall never be lifted by the valve. Cylinders shall not be suspended
     by chains, ropes or slings unless the manufacturer has provided appropriate attachment
     points.
     25.16.3.7. Storage areas shall be legibly marked with the names of gases being stored.
     Full cylinders and empty cylinders shall be segregated and full ones arranged so the
     oldest stock can be removed first with a minimum of handling. The storage area shall be
     kept as dry as possible and away from exposure to salt or other corrosive chemicals or
     materials. Cylinders shall be secured by a metal securing device or rack specifically
     designed to prevent damage.
     25.16.3.8. The rules above apply to all refrigeration and air conditioning maintenance
     work centers that use and store compressed gases.
  25.16.4. Fluorocarbons. Fluorocarbons are relatively inert, in general nonflammable (in all
  concentrations in air under ordinary conditions) and low in toxicity. Shipped as liquefied
  compressed gases under their own vapor pressures, they are colorless as liquids and freeze to
  white solids. Fluorocarbons are odorless in concentrations of less than 20 percent by volume
  in air but some have a faint and ethereal odor in higher concentrations. Fluorocarbons are
  unusually stable for organic compounds. Resistance to thermal decomposition, in general, is
466                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  high but varies with each product. When decomposition occurs, toxic products are very
  irritating and usually give adequate warning of their presence in very low concentrations in
  air. Hot work shall never be performed on charged systems.
      25.16.4.1. Large Liquid Leaks. Large liquid leaks in fluorocarbon systems may be
      detected visually. As the material escapes, moisture in the air surrounding the leak
      condenses and freezes around the leak. The frost thus formed is readily apparent. Smaller
      leaks may be located with the use of:
         25.16.4.1.1. A solution of liquid detergent in water applied directly to the area being
         tested. The formation of bubbles indicates a leak.
         25.16.4.1.2. Electronic leak detectors are capable of sensitivities far greater than the
         other methods often in terms of fractions of an ounce of fluorocarbon per year. When
         the probe of the instrument is placed near a leak, positive identification of the leak is
         indicated by a flashing light, meter deflection or by audible means. Fluorocarbon
         vapors are all much heavier than air and tend to collect in low areas, thus possibly
         displacing available air. The vapors undergo decomposition when drawn through a
         flame or on contact with very hot surfaces. Decomposition products include hydrogen
         fluoride and hydrogen chloride and, perhaps, small quantities of carbonyl compounds
         such as phosgene. The halogen acids are both toxic and intensely irritating to the nose
         and throat with the irritating action readily noticeable before hazardous levels are
         reached. If such a situation develops, the affected areas should be vacated, the heat
         source and leak eliminated, and the area well ventilated before resuming work.
      25.16.4.2. First Aid.
         25.16.4.2.1. Due to their low boiling points, fluorocarbons evaporate very quickly at
         ambient temperature, minimizing dermal, eye and ingestion toxicity. However, liquid
         fluorocarbons in contact with the skin can cause severe freezing or frostbite because
         of their low temperatures. First aid procedures for freezing or frostbite injuries
         involve removing the victim from exposure immediately and implementing
         appropriate emergency procedures listed on the MSDS. Transport victim to the
         nearest emergency room, taking care to treat the frozen body part very gently:
             25.16.4.2.1.1. Do not rub the frozen part.
             25.16.4.2.1.2. Do not allow the patient to have alcohol or tobacco.
             25.16.4.2.1.3. Do not apply ice or snow.
             25.16.4.2.1.4. Do not attempt to thaw the frostbitten part in cold water.
             25.16.4.2.1.5. Do not attempt to thaw the frostbitten part with high temperatures
             such as those generated by stoves, exhaust, etc.
             25.16.4.2.1.6. Avoid additional exposure to cold and do not break blisters which
             may form.
         25.16.4.2.2. The critical mode of entry of fluorocarbons into the body is by
         inhalation. These products generally show inhalation effects similar to anesthetics,
         causing central nervous system (CNS) depression and a decrease in activity, with an
         initial feeling of intoxication and euphoria (psychological effects). Under conditions
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         467



          of progressively greater exposure, loss of coordination, loss of consciousness and
          eventually death occur. Accidental exposures to concentrations higher than the PEL
          shall be treated by prompt removal to fresh air.
25.17. Heating Systems and Central Heating Plant Maintenance.
   25.17.1. Written operating procedures and detailed checklists for operator guidance shall be
   posted in all equipment rooms with boilers. All functions shall be included, whether manual
   or automatic. The basic objectives of safe boiler operations are:
      25.17.1.1. Require the minimum number of manual operations.
      25.17.1.2. Standardize routine operating procedures for normal start-up and on-line
      operation. Ensure use of interlocks to minimize improper operating sequences and to stop
      sequences when conditions are not correct. Establish and enforce purge procedures with
      necessary interlocks.
      25.17.1.3. Open register light-off and purge rate procedures are the only approved start-
      up methods. These procedures improve the margin of operational safety, particularly
      during start-up, by decreasing the number of required equipment manipulations, thereby
      minimizing the probability of operational errors or equipment malfunction. It provides a
      means for establishing the desired fuel-rich condition at individual burners during light-
      off.
          25.17.1.3.1. All or most of the burner air registers are placed in a predetermined open
          position.
          25.17.1.3.2. The furnace and boiler settings are purged with the burner air registers in
          the open position. The total air flow for purge shall not be less than 25 percent of full
          load volumetric air flow.
   25.17.2. Boiler Safety.
      25.17.2.1. Water Level. Water in boilers shall be checked and kept at proper levels.
      Water columns shall be monitored to ensure connections are clear and water returns to
      the proper level in the gauge glass when drain valves are closed. When water is not
      visible in the gauge glass, all stresses on the boiler shall be gradually reduced and the
      following actions taken:
          25.17.2.1.1. For heating boilers, follow procedures in American Society of
          Mechanical Engineers (ASME), BPVC-V1 - 2007 BPVC, Section VI, Recommended
          Rules for the Care and Operation of Heating Boilers, to safely shut down the unit.
          Inspect the boiler thoroughly, including a hydrostatic test before returning the boiler
          to service.
          25.17.2.1.2. For power boilers, follow procedures in ASME, BPVC-VII – 2007
          BPVC, Section VII, Recommended Guidelines for the Care of Power Boilers, to
          safely shut down the unit. Inspect the boiler thoroughly, including a hydrostatic test
          before returning the boiler to service.
      25.17.2.2. Lighting Gas and Oil Fired Furnaces. Before lighting gas and oil fired
      furnaces, boilers and breaching shall be ventilated to remove explosive vapors. Burners
468                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      shall not be lit if there is oil on the floors or combustion chamber, around the burners, or
      in front of the boilers. If the flame of a gas or oil fired burner goes out, the fuel shall be
      immediately cut off and the furnace passages ventilated before the furnace is re-lit.
  25.17.3. Cleaning and Maintenance Procedures.
      25.17.3.1. Whenever a boiler is taken out of service for a prolonged period, it shall be
      cleaned promptly and inspected for defects by the plant engineer. Authorized boiler
      inspectors can also examine the boiler at this time.
      25.17.3.2. Regular prompt cleaning is important. Soot gathers moisture rapidly and thus
      contributes to deterioration of metal surfaces. Soot and fly ash shall be removed as soon
      as the boiler has cooled. Ashes may remain hot for days, presenting a hazard to anyone
      entering the combustion chamber. They shall be wet down with a hose before entry. The
      operator will wet down from the outside toward the center and stay clear of any steam
      and dust that arises. A jet of water shall not be directed into the center of a hot ash pile as
      it can literally explode. When removing ashes, the area around the ash gates shall be kept
      clear to prevent injury to personnel from steam or hot water when ash gates are opened.
      The disposal of soot and fly ash shall be IAW the direction of the installation
      Environmental Management office.
      25.17.3.3. For boilers in continuous service, planned and scheduled boiler shutdown for
      preventive maintenance is far safer than risking an extensive shutdown caused by boiler
      failure. At least once a year, the boiler, the flame safeguard supervisory system, and other
      safety controls will be inspected during a scheduled shutdown by an authorized inspector
      who is accompanied by the plant supervisor. Defective parts shall be repaired or replaced.
      For inspection, boilers shall be cool, handholes and manholes open, and the boiler shall
      have been ventilated. Adequate lighting and protective equipment for work in the boiler
      shall be provided. Specific boiler inspection requirements may be found in AFI 32-1068,
      Heating Systems and Unfired Pressure Vessels.
      25.17.3.4. Proper and convenient drain connections shall be provided for draining
      boilers. Unobstructed floor drains, properly located in the boiler room, facilitate proper
      cleaning. Infrequently used drains shall have water poured into the traps, as required
      based on local conditions, to prevent the entrance of sewer gases and odors into the boiler
      room. If there is a possibility of freezing, an antifreeze mixture should be used in the
      drain traps.
      25.17.3.5. When cleaning a boiler, workers shall wear protective clothing, hats, goggles,
      heavy leather-palm gloves and safety-toe boots/shoes. Contact BE for an occupational
      and environmental health risk assessment and determination of proper respiratory
      protection, if warranted.
  25.17.4. Steam Piping and Valve Maintenance.
      25.17.4.1. All four (4) inch and larger steam valves or main steam valves to any building
      shall be operated only by qualified heat systems personnel.
      25.17.4.2. High-pressure steam valves located in enclosed areas or confined spaces shall
      not be turned closed until the area is completely protected against the release of steam
      into the area or space by such means as a double block and bleed system. Double block
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      469



     and bleed requires the closure of a line, duct or pipe by closing two inline valves and by
     opening a drain or vent valve in the line between the two closed valves.
     25.17.4.3. When a valve in a confined space or enclosed area is to be opened, the
     operator will close the main valve at the steam plant before opening the steam valve in
     the enclosed area or confined space. The operator will ensure all pressure has been bled
     off prior to opening the steam valve. The operator shall ensure the potential for hazardous
     release of steam is rendered safe before opening the steam valve.
     25.17.4.4. Routine operations, maintenance and repair in steam pits and other enclosed
     areas or confined spaces may be accomplished on electric circuits, controls, motors,
     pumps, receivers, condensate lines and vent fans while steam pressure is in the steam
     line, providing conditions and temperatures are acceptable. However, no operational
     changes, repair or maintenance shall be accomplished on steam lines while there is steam
     pressure on the lines.
     25.17.4.5. Operating personnel will open drain valves and remove water from the steam
     line prior to opening a high-pressure steam valve. They will familiarize themselves with
     the location of these drain valves to ensure water accumulations are drained from the
     distribution lines.
     25.17.4.6. When bypass lines and valves are installed around a high-pressure steam
     valve, the bypass valve shall be opened first. When the steam line becomes heated or the
     steam pressure equalized on both sides of main steam valve, the main steam valve may
     then be opened.
     25.17.4.7. All high-pressure steam valves shall be opened very slowly, and everyone will
     remain at a safe distance while valve positions are being changed.
     25.17.4.8. When dismantling a valve (removing bonnet, etc.) for maintenance, the
     worker will ensure pressure has been relieved through all possible means. The valve body
     shall be checked for a removable plug to relieve pressure. Bolts shall be carefully
     removed. Personnel will never position their body over the valve or in line with the
     direction of travel, in case the bonnet blows. Many locations (boilers, steam pipes, etc.)
     associated with heating systems and central heating plants may have material containing
     asbestos present. BE shall be consulted on all planned asbestos projects and shall be
     immediately notified upon discovery of suspected or confirmed asbestos during a project
     or suspension of work due to asbestos. For further guidance, consult paragraph 25.1, AFI
     32-1068, Heating Systems and Unfired Pressure Vessels, and AFI 32-1067, Water
     Systems.
  25.17.5. Vaults, Manholes and Tanks.
     25.17.5.1. All confined spaces and enclosed areas shall be considered hazardous and
     shall not be entered until tested for oxygen amount, and flammable or toxic atmosphere
     by BE or other qualified individual. Refer to Chapter 23 for confined space entry
     requirements.
     25.17.5.2. Atmospheres containing 19.5 percent or less oxygen by volume shall not be
     entered without the use of an air-supplied respirator approved by BE.
470                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      25.17.5.3. Only manhole cover hooks or other methods approved for this purpose shall
      be used when removing or replacing manhole covers. When replaced, the covers shall be
      properly seated. The bearing surfaces shall be free from dirt or ice that might prevent
      proper seating of the cover.
      25.17.5.4. Personnel will enter and leave manholes or vaults only by means of a ladder
      or built-in rungs; they shall not step on cables, cable hangers or pipes.
      25.17.5.5. Personnel shall not throw tools or materials into or out of manholes or vaults.
      They will use canvas buckets, handlines or other approved methods for lowering and
      removing tools and equipment.
      25.17.5.6. Working on energized equipment is especially hazardous in subsurface
      structures and shall be performed by a qualified electrician or qualified craftsman trained
      on energized equipment.
      25.17.5.7. When a manhole or vault is open, at least one member of the crew shall be
      stationed at the surface to act as a safety observer and take appropriate actions in case of
      emergency. When manhole covers are removed, install barriers to prevent injury to
      personnel not associated with the hazard.
      25.17.5.8. Cool vests or other heat-reducing equipment shall be made available to
      workers who enter vaults or manholes under high heat conditions, e.g., steam leak repair.
  25.17.6. Central Heating Plants.
      25.17.6.1. Boiler Safety.
         25.17.6.1.1. As a minimum, each boiler shall be equipped with steam and water
         gauges, gauge cocks, safety and blowoff valves and low-water cutoff devices. Safety
         valves shall be tested for proper operation by the inspector by means of the try lever
         during boiler inspections. Safety valve inspections shall be as outlined in the National
         Board Inspection Code published by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure
         Vessel Inspectors. Boiler feedlines shall be equipped with check and cutoff valves
         placed as close as possible to each boiler. Water gauge glasses, less than 15 feet from
         the floor or water tender‘s platform, shall be carefully guarded to prevent accidents
         resulting from breakage or blowouts. High-pressure gauge glasses shall be drawn
         down on each shift. Low-pressure gauge glasses shall be checked at least weekly.
         Pressure gauges shall be inspected and tested every 12 months by heating plant
         personnel. Required testing equipment shall be included in the Table of Allowance
         (TA) for these facilities. Additional information can be found in AFI 32-1068,
         Heating Systems and Unfired Pressure Vessels.
         25.17.6.1.2. No boiler shall be operated unless equipped with a safety valve,
         calibrated to the boiler manufacturer‘s recommendations, unless normal boiler
         operating pressures are changed. In the latter case, the maximum operating pressure
         then becomes the controlling factor on safety valve selection. No other valves shall be
         placed between the safety valve and the boiler or between the safety valve and the
         end of its discharge pipe. Safety valves shall be manually tested on steam or hot water
         systems at least monthly for proper operation. AFI 32-1068 and manufacturer‘s boiler
         operations manuals shall be consulted for detailed information on safety valve
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         471



        capacities, settings, disks and springs. If it is not practical to test safety valves every
        month for High Temperature Hot Water (HTHW) boilers, the valves shall be
        removed from the boiler, tested and reset (if required) at a properly equipped safety
        relief valve testing facility by the valve manufacturer or by a certified ASME shop.
        Valves shall be tested and reset at least once a year for HTHW boilers.
        25.17.6.1.3. When applicable, spark arresters shall be installed on boiler stacks to
        prevent flying sparks.
        25.17.6.1.4. All safety and blowoff valve discharge pipes shall be located where the
        discharge shall not create a hazard. Discharge lines from water heater relief valves
        shall be arranged with the outlet within six (6) inches of the floor. Such an outlet shall
        not be threaded, capped or plugged. It shall be cut off diagonally and not extend
        outdoors where it may freeze. Discharge lines and outlets shall be capable of free
        flow at all times.
        25.17.6.1.5. No boiler shall be operated at pressures higher than determined safe by
        the most recent boiler inspection. Boilers shall not be operated at greater pressures
        than those specified on the manufacturer‘s stamped instructions. The lowest of these
        two pressures will govern boiler operation. The instructions stamped by
        manufacturers on boilers shall not be covered, removed or rendered unreadable.
        25.17.6.1.6. If safety valves do not pop when pressures rise above valve settings, or
        the valves cannot be opened by hand when tested, the boiler shall be taken out of
        service until the valves have been repaired or replaced.
        25.17.6.1.7. When fires are banked, boiler tenders shall make certain that draft is
        sufficient to prevent accumulations of flammable gases.
        25.17.6.1.8. When a boiler is returned to full operation, all external drains between
        the boiler and main header shall be left open until the boiler is on the line. The stop
        valve shall be kept closed until boiler pressure is equal to that in the steam main. The
        stop valve shall then be gradually opened; if no jars or disturbances occur in the line,
        the valve may be opened completely. If jarring or rumbling occurs during cutting-in,
        the stop valve shall be closed immediately.
        25.17.6.1.9. Steam shall be introduced into cold pipes very slowly until they have
        warmed enough to preclude damage.
        25.17.6.1.10. Boiler tenders will stand to one side when opening fire doors to protect
        themselves against flarebacks.
        25.17.6.1.11. Because of the danger of flarebacks, boiler tenders will not throw coal
        dust sweepings on boiler floors.
        25.17.6.1.12. When not in use, all boiler room tools shall be stored in suitable racks.
        Tool racks shall be constructed and located so personnel cannot accidentally touch
        hot surfaces or knock tools from racks while passing by.
        25.17.6.1.13. Adjustments shall not be made to valves or valves removed to increase
        discharge pressure.
472                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         25.17.6.1.14. Hoistways, driving machinery, conveyors, worm gears, ash sluices and
         reciprocating pumps shall be properly guarded. OSHA 3067, Concepts and
         Techniques of Machine Safeguarding, further explains this information.
         25.17.6.1.15. Ashes shall not be stored against boilers or combustible materials.
         Ashes contain sulfur compounds which, on contact with water, form highly corrosive
         acids.
      25.17.6.2. Attendance. Only fully automatic plants of less than 30,000,000 BTU per hour
      may be left unattended. All other boiler furnaces, regardless of the types of fuels or firing
      methods, operating at 30,000,000 BTU per hour or more shall be operated per
      instructions in AFI 32-1068, Heating Systems and Unfired Pressure Vessels.
      25.17.6.3. Boiler Water Treatment Tank. Some chemicals used to treat boiler water are
      hazardous and shall be handled properly. The following safety precautions shall be
      observed:
         25.17.6.3.1. Acids. Tests for chemical residuals involve small quantities of acid. The
         risk is small if spillage is avoided and bottles containing acid are not broken. Greater
         risks are involved in handling sulfuric acid in hydrogen-zeolite, demineralizing and
         direct-acid treatment processes. Observe the following precautions when handling
         sulfuric acid:
             25.17.6.3.1.1. Do not permit sulfuric acid to come in contact with eyes, skin or
             clothing.
             25.17.6.3.1.2. Always wear full face shields, chemical safety goggles, neoprene
             gloves and a neoprene apron.
             25.17.6.3.1.3. Never add water or caustic solutions to concentrated acid since a
             violent reaction will result; if dilution is necessary, add the acid to the water or
             caustic solution.
             25.17.6.3.1.4. Ensure work leader supervises all cleaning and repairing of tanks.
             Observe instructions about entering and cleaning tanks, including the exact steps
             to be taken. Ensure emergency equipment is immediately available before
             workers enter tanks.
             25.17.6.3.1.5. Wash down spills with plenty of water. Never use combustibles
             such as cloths, sawdust or other organic materials to mop up spilled sulfuric acid.
             Neutralize spills with soda ash before washing down.
             25.17.6.3.1.6. In the event of accidental contact, remove all contaminated
             clothing immediately and wash affected areas with water for at least 15 minutes.
             Have medical personnel examine affected areas to determine if further treatment
             is necessary.
         25.17.6.3.2. Caustic Soda. When mixing water and caustic soda, always add the
         caustic soda to the water to prevent generating enough heat to boil the solution and
         cause it to splatter. Splatter may injure personnel because liquid and solid caustic
         soda can corrode the skin and damage upper respiratory tract and lung tissue if dust or
         concentrated mist is inhaled.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     473



           25.17.6.3.2.1. Never store food or eat near caustic soda or in work areas where it
           is handled.
           25.17.6.3.2.2. Do not depend upon creams or ointments for protection from
           caustic soda.
           25.17.6.3.2.3. Ensure all workers exposed to caustic soda wear full face shield,
           close-fitting chemical safety glasses, neoprene gloves, apron and coveralls that fit
           snugly at neck and wrist.
        25.17.6.3.3. Application of Chemicals.
           25.17.6.3.3.1. Always drain the feeder before introducing chemicals into it.
           Before opening the drain valve, close all pressure connections to the feeder to
           prevent operator injury from hot water or chemicals.
           25.17.6.3.3.2. Never place dry chemicals in a chemical feeder or pump. This
           practice plugs the chemical feed lines in a short time.
           25.17.6.3.3.3. Wherever possible, mix chemicals at floor level to minimize the
           possibility of injury to eyes and face.
           25.17.6.3.3.4. Check specifications, temperature, pressure and construction
           materials of piping, valves and pumps, to determine whether they can be used
           safely with the chemicals.
        25.17.6.3.4. Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units.
           25.17.6.3.4.1. An eyewash unit either permanent or portable (portable must be
           capable of providing a steady stream of water for at least 15 minutes) shall be
           available when workers are exposed to injurious corrosive materials. If even a
           minute quantity of sulfuric acid or caustic soda enters the eyes, irrigate
           immediately and copiously with water for at least 15 minutes. Refer to Chapter
           19, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units, for additional guidance.
           25.17.6.3.4.2. Have a well-marked safety shower available in the area where
           sulfuric acid, caustic soda or other chemicals are being handled and may come in
           contact with the body.
           25.17.6.3.4.3. Supervisors will inspect all eyewash units and emergency showers
           IAW Chapter 19.Documentation of inspection shall be kept in a log,
           computerized or affixed to the unit by tag or label. Personnel shall be trained in
           the use of eyewash units and emergency showers.
           25.17.6.3.4.4. Eyewash units and emergency showers shall not be used in lieu of
           appropriate PPE. PPE requirements may be found in Figure 25.1 and Chapter
           14.
        25.17.6.3.5. Chemical Storage and Handling.
           25.17.6.3.5.1. Store all large quantities of chemicals used for boiler or condensate
           water treatment in locations where accidental spills will be contained and where
           drainage will not be hazardous to personnel or the environment.
474                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             25.17.6.3.5.2. Conspicuously post warning and handling instructions where use
             of toxic chemicals is necessary.
             25.17.6.3.5.3. Because chemical storage equipment is subject to corrosion,
             deterioration or mechanical hazards, periodically inspect this equipment.
             Frequency shall be determined by supervision, based on local conditions.
             25.17.6.3.5.4. Train personnel who handle chemicals in safe chemical handling
             practices.
             25.17.6.3.5.5. Practice neutralization and containment techniques and disposal
             instructions. Contact the installation Environmental Management office for
             proper disposal guidelines.
         25.17.6.3.6. Chemical Laboratories.
             25.17.6.3.6.1. Ensure chemical testing laboratories associated with water
             treatment have operable mechanical ventilation, when required by the BE OEH
             risk assessment. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-22, Occupational Exposure to
             Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories, and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A
             Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance, for
             additional guidance.
             25.17.6.3.6.2. Maintain chemical test kits and test instructions in a current and
             usable state.
             25.17.6.3.6.3. Conspicuously post appropriate warning instructions for chemicals
             and their hazards.
             25.17.6.3.6.4. Train personnel who conduct chemical tests in use of chemicals
             and hazards involved.
      25.17.6.4. Railroad Coal Car Operations.
         25.17.6.4.1. No person will climb on, in or under a railroad coal car while the
         railroad crane or switch engine is in operation or coupled to the railroad car.
         25.17.6.4.2. The railroad crane shall be moved a minimum of one boom‘s length
         away from the railroad coal car while coal-handling personnel are working in, around
         or under the coal car.
         25.17.6.4.3. Signs that read ―Do Not Climb on Coal Car When Crane or Switch
         Engine is in Operation,‖ or the nearest commercially available equivalent, shall be
         posted on each coal car by coal-handling personnel.
         25.17.6.4.4. Blue flags or blue signals shall be posted on railroad rails when coal-
         handling personnel are working in, around or under coal cars. Flags or signals are to
         be a minimum of 50 feet from the coal car.
         25.17.6.4.5. There shall be a qualified brakeman working with the crane or switch
         engine. No coal-handling personnel will function as a brakeman.
      25.17.6.5. Coal Storage and Handling.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       475



        25.17.6.5.1. To minimize the probability of fire, free movement of air through all
        parts of the coal pile is needed to rapidly remove heat generated by oxidation. Air
        flow depends on preventing segregation (the separation of larger from smaller size
        lumps), on limiting the coal stored to a relative narrow range of sizes, not storing
        small sizes and not compacting the pile.
        25.17.6.5.2. All closed coal storage structures should have, if practical, an access
        opening at the top with hinged cover and safety rail. Stringent safety precautions shall
        be followed whenever a storage facility containing coal is entered. No individual shall
        enter such a facility without a safety harness. In addition, a second individual shall
        stand at the opening and maintain visual contact. An intercom telephone system shall
        be used when visual contact cannot be maintained. Personnel will never step into
        coal; they will remain on ladders and catwalks.
        25.17.6.5.3. There shall be no surface within the storage structure with a horizontal
        angle less than 60°, except that catenary bunkers may be used for free-flowing coal
        (e.g., high-rank, dry, double-screened).
        25.17.6.5.4. A means of loosening coal jams from the outside of the storage structure
        shall be provided on all structures, except ones used exclusively for free-flowing coal
        (e.g., high-rank, dry, double-screened).
        25.17.6.5.5. Considerable dust is generated during the filling and emptying of coal
        storage structures. If process not already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk
        assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance. If not confined within the
        storage structure, such dust settles on machinery and instruments causing rapid wear
        or improper operation. It also collects on ledges and in crevices, creating a fire hazard
        and an almost impossible housekeeping situation. Additionally, suspended coal dust
        in a storage structure presents an explosion hazard. Although relatively rare, such
        explosions can cause extensive damage. Such features as damage-limiting
        construction or explosion-venting panels shall be incorporated in the design of coal
        storage structures. Those structures used exclusively for anthracite coal storage are
        excluded because the dust from such coal is nonexplosive. Oil treatment of coal
        should be used if coal dust becomes a problem.
     25.17.6.6. Oil Storage and Handling.
        25.17.6.6.1. Operation of the burner shall not be attempted until a satisfactory fuel
        supply is ensured.
        25.17.6.6.2. Fuel shall be continuously delivered to the combustion chamber in a
        finely atomized form that can be readily ignited and consumed.
        25.17.6.6.3. All equipment associated with pumping, heating, and straining the fuel
        from storage to the service connection shall be designed, sized and interconnected to
        the unit to always provide a suitable fuel supply over a full range of conditions. Relief
        valves shall be installed after the pump to prevent system overpressure.
 476                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          25.17.6.6.4. Fuel shall be delivered to the burner at the manufacturer‘s recommended
          temperature and pressure. Cold fuel may prevent satisfactory atomization, while
          excessively heated oil may create vaporlock that can interrupt continuous oil flow.
          25.17.6.6.5. When oil must be heated, instruments shall be calibrated to ensure
          accurate measurements, particularly in dead-end lines where heavy oil tends to
          solidify.
          25.17.6.6.6. Sufficient filters shall be installed to ensure oil is free from sludge, water
          or other contaminants that may cause fuel interruptions or interfere with proper
          operation of control and measuring equipment. Disposal of fuel filters and other fuel
          contaminated waste shall be consistent with approved waste disposal procedures and
          applicable environmental regulations. The installation Environmental Management
          office can provide additional guidance regarding waste disposal methods.
25.18. Water and Wastewater Treatment.
   25.18.1. Workers involved in operation and maintenance of water and wastewater treatment
   systems are exposed to many potential, but controllable hazards. Most mishaps can be
   prevented through a complete and ongoing training program, specific operating procedures,
   emergency operating procedures and being knowledgeable of unsafe chemical reactions.
   Mishaps can result from falls, improper lifting, electrical shock, not using protective
   equipment while handling chemicals, hazardous chemical reactions and asphyxiation from
   oxygen-deficient atmospheres (19.5 percent or less oxygen by volume). Other mishaps can
   be caused by ignition of flammable or explosive gases; hazards around open excavations;
   falls into water pits or lagoons; getting caught in moving mechanical parts; striking
   obstructions; improper use of hand or portable tools, equipment or vehicles; and exposure to
   toxic or harmful organisms. Refer to Chapter 23 for confined space entry requirements.
       25.18.1.1. Explosive Gases. The most common sewer gases are methane, carbon
       monoxide, and hydrogen sulfide. These gases, when mixed with air and a spark, can
       explode with great force. Such explosions are most common and dangerous in confined
       spaces such as tanks, underground lift stations or manholes. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is
       generally encountered more frequently in wastewater systems than any other hazardous
       gas. In light concentrations, it has a foul odor similar to rotten eggs. After continued
       exposure, H2S will overstimulate the olfactory sensors and will no longer register as an
       odor. It is heavier than air and usually collects in low areas. Methane is lighter than air
       and will escape with proper ventilation. Closed tanks and tight rooms are the greatest
       danger areas. They shall be tested for oxygen and methane or H2S with approved meters.
       25.18.1.2. Oxygen Deficiency. Oxygen deficiency (19.5 percent or less oxygen by
       volume) is a major hazard in wastewater collection systems and treatment plants. Some
       gases, both explosive and non-explosive, are heavier than air and settle into low spots and
       physically displace oxygen. Ambient air shall be tested for oxygen deficiency with
       approved equipment. Required procedures and methods shall be used when entering
       system components suspected to be oxygen deficient.
       25.18.1.3. Toxic and Hazardous Chemicals. Many different chemicals are used in water
       and wastewater treatment. Due to the large number of chemicals and the diverse
       processes in which they are used, it is not possible to list all chemical hazards in this
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     477



     standard. Additionally, with the nature and number of chemicals, and their by-products
     that may be encountered, supervisors should conduct a JSA or other hazard or risk
     assessment, and, when necessary, develop operating instructions or written guidance for
     operations involving their use. Exposure to such substances can result in burns, rashes,
     nausea, loss of eyesight, damage to vital organs, fatal poisoning and various other
     conditions. Extreme care shall always be taken when working with chemicals to prevent
     accidental injury to workers.
     25.18.1.4. Chemical Treatment Processes. Chemical treatment processes can pose
     hazardous situations for workers exposed to the various chemicals during handling,
     operations and maintenance. Due to the potential adverse health effects caused by
     inhalation of toxic hazardous materials, use of approved respiratory protection is often
     required in addition to atmospheric monitoring to ensure safe work conditions are
     maintained.
     25.18.1.5. Federal and some state agencies set exposure limits to protect workers against
     exposure to hazardous substances. The Air Force incorporates the most appropriate limits
     as the Occupational and Environmental Exposure Limit (OEEL). OEELs are the Air
     Force limits on the amount or concentration of a substance in air. OEELs may also
     contain a skin designation. Contact BE for questions related to OELs.
     25.18.1.6. OEELs are usually based on an 8-hour time weighted average (TWA)
     exposure. BE determines compliance with OEELs through quantitative measurements
     and/or professional judgment. Supervisors that need assistance complying with OEELs
     should contact BE.
     25.18.1.7. Areas where chemicals are present may become immediately dangerous to life
     and health (IDLH) because of deficient facility design, location, or equipment
     malfunction. Each IDLH area will have a means of emergency contact available to
     personnel working in the area. Either a telephone shall be located immediately outside the
     IDLH area or radio contact capabilities shall be available while personnel are working in
     the IDLH area. IDLH levels vary depending on the chemicals involved. If process not
     already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for
     additional guidance.. Some locations may require, as a minimum, the installation of a
     mechanical exhaust system that is turned on prior to entering the room (e.g., automated
     door interlocks). In addition, local regulations may require modern gas detection alarms
     in locations where some gases are used, i.e., where chlorine gas is used an alarm that
     activates when the gas reaches the OEEL may be required. Electronic gas detectors may
     also be used to sense hazards or exposures associated with ammonia, hydrogen sulfide,
     carbon monoxide, etc. Additional points to consider include:
        25.18.1.7.1. Type of ventilation system, exhaust duct location (should be near floor),
        size of fan, air changes per hour, automatic fan operation and availability of make-up
        air.
        25.18.1.7.2. Level of chemical use, quantity stored, location of gas cylinders or
        chemical containers, condition of equipment and accessibility of equipment.
478                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         25.18.1.7.3. Room location (e.g., above ground or below ground), room size, room
         layout and cross-ventilation.
         25.18.1.7.4. Mishap history, safety factors, equipment handling problems and unique
         conditions.
      25.18.1.8. Each chemical treatment room shall be evaluated by BE. Contact BE for an
      OEH risk assessment. Follow the subsequent guidance related to IDLH:
         25.18.1.8.1. If IDLH conditions exist:
            25.18.1.8.1.1. Before entry into a potentially IDLH gaseous chemical treatment
            room, the person entering will ensure they have all required protective equipment,
            to include self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA). IAW Chapter 23, an
            additional person shall be present with the proper rescue equipment, including
            SCBA, to assist the other person in case of emergency.
            25.18.1.8.1.2. Any self-contained breathing apparatus shall be approved by BE as
            required by AFOSH Standard 48-137.
            25.18.1.8.1.3. The chemical treatment supervisor will develop written OIs
            covering emergency procedures. Individuals shall be thoroughly trained in use of
            the equipment. Annual training shall be conducted and documented by the
            supervisor.
            25.18.1.8.1.4. Self-contained breathing apparatus shall be inspected at least
            monthly or more frequently IAW manufacturer guidelines. A record shall be kept
            of inspection dates.
            25.18.1.8.1.5. The functional manager should program and install engineering
            controls when feasible.
         25.18.1.8.2. If IDLH conditions do not exist:
            25.18.1.8.2.1. An additional person standing by with a self-contained breathing
            apparatus is not necessary when entering a chemical treatment room not
            determined IDLH by BE.
            25.18.1.8.2.2. Workers should take precautions to ensure exhaust ventilation is
            operating when the chemical treatment room door is opened. If any hazardous
            condition is suspected or detected, the worker will not enter the room or area. The
            situation shall be evaluated and managed the same as an IDLH condition. Entry
            into the contaminated area shall only be conducted by properly trained and
            protected personnel.
            25.18.1.8.2.3. For additional guidance refer to the following:
                25.18.1.8.2.3.1. 29 CFR 1910.134. Respiratory Protection.
                25.18.1.8.2.3.2. AFI 32-1067, Water Systems.
                25.18.1.8.2.3.3. AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program.
                25.18.1.8.2.3.4. AFOSH Standard 48-14, Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot
                Tubs, and Bathing Areas.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        479



  25.18.2. Personal Sanitation and Protective Equipment.
     25.18.2.1. Wastewater and sewage systems often contain disease causing organisms.
     Every worker will practice good personal hygiene. Risk to occupational health and from
     physical mishaps are best reduced when a plant is kept clean. All personnel will comply
     with required periodic physicals and recommended vaccinations as determined by the
     local health authority.
     25.18.2.2. Gloves, boots and coveralls keep wastewater from contacting the skin. Rubber
     gloves are essential when there are scratches or open wounds on the hands. If workers
     come in direct contact with wastewater, they will scrub thoroughly with strong soap and
     hot water as soon as possible. Running hot and cold water, strong soap, hand disinfectant
     and an adequate supply of disposable towels shall be maintained. All workers will scrub
     well and disinfect hands before eating or smoking. Emergency eyewashes or showers
     shall be provided IAW Chapter 19.
     25.18.2.3. PPE is required when loading, mixing or adding chemicals. Supervisors shall
     review the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each chemical used and select PPE
     based on performance characteristics of the chemical protective equipment or clothing
     relative to the tasks performed, conditions present, duration of use and potential hazards
     identified. Verify proper selection of PPE with BE prior to original use. Refer to Figure
     25.1 for additional PPE guidance.
     25.18.2.4. Food or drink preparation, eating, drinking or smoking shall be permitted only
     in authorized areas.
     25.18.2.5. Because of the possibility of contamination, change rooms equipped with
     storage facilities for street clothes and separate storage facilities for protective clothing
     shall be provided.
  25.18.3. Treatment Plant. The following items shall be accomplished to prevent or lessen
  effects of mixing incompatible hazardous chemicals. Plans or OIs shall be developed for
  operations under emergency conditions to include, but not limited to, safe venting of toxic
  gases, neutralization, air sampling, evacuation of non-essential personnel and a respiratory
  protection program. There must be prompt mishap notification of appropriate officials such
  as the FES Flight, BE, commanders, Ground Safety office and others with technical
  knowledge or skill to help resolve emergencies. The nature of the emergency and chemicals
  involved shall be documented and distributed as written notifications. Supervisors shall
  ensure the following precautionary measures are adhered to for the plant components listed:
     25.18.3.1. Bar Screens and Racks.
         25.18.3.1.1. All railings are firmly anchored.
         25.18.3.1.2. All screening in tight, easily-removed cans.
         25.18.3.1.3. Wash-down hoses are used to keep all screen deck areas clean.
     25.18.3.2. Shredding (Pulverizing) and Grinding.
         25.18.3.2.1. All walkways are clean and free of grease.
         25.18.3.2.2. All power is turned off and locked out before servicing.
480                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         25.18.3.2.3. All guards and screens are firmly in place.
      25.18.3.3. Pumping and Lift Station Maintenance Repair.
         25.18.3.3.1. All power is switched off and locked out before servicing.
         25.18.3.3.2. Test for gas and oxygen if below ground level.
         25.18.3.3.3. Equipment removal hatches are not opened except during actual use, and
         then are fenced off.
         25.18.3.3.4. Positive displacement pumps are never started against a closed discharge
         valve.
      25.18.3.4. Wet Pits and Sumps.
         25.18.3.4.1. All manhole safety steps are followed.
         25.18.3.4.2. Test for gases and oxygen before entering.
         25.18.3.4.3. All chlorination equipment is turned off upstream and enough time
         allowed for ventilation.
      25.18.3.5. Grit Chamber.
         25.18.3.5.1. All walking and working surfaces are clean and free of grease or oil.
         25.18.3.5.2. Tools are not hand-carried up or down a ladder; always use a bucket and
         rope, tool belt or pouch.
      25.18.3.6. Sedimentation Basin (Clarifier).
         25.18.3.6.1. Non-slip surfaces are maintained on all ladders, stairs and catwalks.
         25.18.3.6.2. Firm rails are provided on inside of all walks.
         25.18.3.6.3. Workers never walk on sludge, but hose a path ahead.
         25.18.3.6.4. Workers wear protective overalls and non-skid rubber boots.
         25.18.3.6.5. Approved life vests with attached lifelines are provided at appropriate
         points around the clarifier.
         25.18.3.6.6. Workers cleaning an effluent weir wear safety harness, gloves, goggles
         and have a helper standing by.
         25.18.3.6.7. Guards are in place around all moving parts.
      25.18.3.7. Digester Equipment. Digester equipment locations are probably the most
      dangerous areas in any plant. Supervisors shall ensure:
         25.18.3.7.1. Testing for explosive gas and oxygen.
         25.18.3.7.2. Sufficient ventilation is maintained.
         25.18.3.7.3. A backup helper is standing by.
         25.18.3.7.4. All valves on both sides of sludge pumps are completely closed before
         servicing.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   481



        25.18.3.7.5. Below-ground pump room blowers are wired so ventilation is provided
        any time the pump is running.
        25.18.3.7.6. Spillage is avoided and, if it occurs, is cleaned up at once.
        25.18.3.7.7. Workers do not attempt to service radioactive element automatic sludge
        moisture meters. Meters containing radioactive material may require an Air Force
        radioactive material permit IAW AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the
        US Air Force. Contact the BE to determine if a permit is required.
     25.18.3.8. Digester Tanks.
        25.18.3.8.1. On start up, completely fill the tank to overflow thereby preventing any
        air-gas mix in partly filled tank that would be explosive.
        25.18.3.8.2. Draw digested sludge at the same rate you add raw sludge to fixed roof
        digesters, thus preventing any vacuum or extinguishing of gas boilers.
        25.18.3.8.3. Maintain forced ventilation in all rooms and galleries.
        25.18.3.8.4. Test for gas and oxygen before entering any closed area.
        25.18.3.8.5. Always follow manufacturer‘s instructions in servicing boilers or heat
        exchangers.
        25.18.3.8.6. Ensure chamber is cleared before lighting the pilot.
        25.18.3.8.7. Ensure all electrical fixtures are explosion-proof.
        25.18.3.8.8. Always allow heat exchanger to cool before opening.
        25.18.3.8.9. Do not allow smoking anywhere around any digestion area equipment.
     25.18.3.9. Empty or Partially-Filled Digester Tanks. Empty or partially-filled digester
     tanks are especially dangerous and shall be treated with extreme caution.
        25.18.3.9.1. Always test for explosive atmosphere and oxygen deficiency before
        entering.
        25.18.3.9.2. Open all manholes and force heavy ventilation during the time anyone is
        working inside.
        25.18.3.9.3. Always have at least two (2) backup helpers standing by.
     25.18.3.10. Digested Sludge Storage Tanks.
        25.18.3.10.1. Ensure all electrical equipment is explosion-proof.
        25.18.3.10.2. Ensure forced air ventilation is provided before entry and during the
        period of occupancy by workers.
        25.18.3.10.3. Ensure air relief valves are working during draw-off.
        25.18.3.10.4. Regularly check for flammable gases.
        25.18.3.10.5. Carefully control draw-off rate. Prevent surges.
        25.18.3.10.6. Always clean lines with water, never air.
482                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      25.18.3.11. Sludge Gas Collection and Use Equipment.
         25.18.3.11.1. Protect all gas lines from freezing weather.
         25.18.3.11.2. Use antifreeze in all water traps during freezing weather.
         25.18.3.11.3. Regularly check all points for gas leaks, using a meter or soapy water.
         Caution: Never rely on odor to detect presence of sludge gas.
         25.18.3.11.4. Maintain positive gas pressure in all lines.
         25.18.3.11.5. Use enclosed dry type gas compressors, not water seals.
         25.18.3.11.6. Check gas boiler safety devices often, especially pilot cut off and blow
         back protection devices (flame arresters).
         25.18.3.11.7. When purging tanks of gas, open all manholes high and low and force
         ventilate from low ones.
      25.18.3.12. Trickling Filter.
         25.18.3.12.1. Anchor (tie down) the rotary distributor before inspection or servicing.
         25.18.3.12.2. Walk carefully if necessary to get on filter media. Never allow
         equipment on the media.
         25.18.3.12.3. Regularly inspect under drains for solids buildup and collapsed drains.
         These conditions hinder ventilation and induce septicity, causing gas formation.
         25.18.3.12.4. Always provide a firm base off the media for the jack plate, if
         necessary, to lift distributors for servicing.
         25.18.3.12.5. Prohibit mercury seals on distributors because of hazards to operators
         and contamination of receiving waters.
      25.18.3.13. Aeration Tanks.
         25.18.3.13.1. Provide guardrails for all work areas and walkways.
         25.18.3.13.2. Place approved life vests with attached lifelines at appropriate locations
         around aerator rails.
         25.18.3.13.3. Always center the test hoists used to service diffusers.
         25.18.3.13.4. Use a dry fixed ladder to enter a dry empty tank and be careful of slick
         sides and floor. Use a water hose and stiff bristled brush to keep the work area clean
         and to provide safe footing.
      25.18.3.14. Stabilization Ponds.
         25.18.3.14.1. Maintain roads on top of levees with gravel or asphalt.
         25.18.3.14.2. Never work alone while mowing or clearing vegetation on berms
         (dikes) because of drowning hazard.
         25.18.3.14.3. Wear a life vest while working, inspecting or otherwise in a boat or raft
         on a pond.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           483



         25.18.3.14.4. Always work from a sitting position in a boat, unless it is designed to
         be stable while working in a standing position.
  25.18.4. Manholes. The following safety precautions and procedures shall be observed:
     25.18.4.1. Test for both oxygen deficiency and explosive gases with approved meters
     before entering.
     25.18.4.2. Remove cover with a special hook, never by hand.
     25.18.4.3. Place the cover flat and at least three (3) feet from the manhole lip.
     25.18.4.4. When a manhole or vault is open, at least one member of the crew shall be
     stationed at the surface to act as a safety observer and take appropriate actions in case of
     emergency. When manhole covers are removed, install barriers to prevent injury to
     personnel not associated with the hazard.
     25.18.4.5. Carefully test the permanent ladder for rust, weakness or slippery rungs before
     using.
     25.18.4.6. Ensure the portable ladder is firmly seated and cannot slip. Always use a
     ladder to enter the manhole.
     25.18.4.7. Ventilate the lowest working levels with portable blowers for at least 30
     minutes before and during the time workers are in the hole.
     25.18.4.8. Always wear a safety harness and lifeline and be constantly attended by a
     helper on the surface.
     25.18.4.9. Wear a helmet, gloves and rubber boots while inside a manhole.
     25.18.4.10. Ensure all lighting is explosion-proof.
     25.18.4.11. Prohibit open flames, sources of ignition or smoking in or at the opening of
     an open manhole.
     25.18.4.12. Lower tools in a bucket or pouch; never drop them into the manhole.
     25.18.4.13. Continue testing for oxygen deficient, explosive and toxic atmospheres
     during the entire time a worker is inside a manhole, wet well, etc. Do not trust your nose.
     Some toxic and flammable gases have no odor or can quickly paralyze your sense of
     smell.
  25.18.5. Laboratories. Laboratories use many dangerous chemicals. Many of the testing
  procedures can result in mishaps if the technician is not fully alert at all times. Basic rules for
  laboratory safety are:
     25.18.5.1. Sampling Safety.
         25.18.5.1.1. Never take field samples with bare hands; always wear gloves.
         25.18.5.1.2. Do not climb over or go inside guardrails. Use poles, ropes, dippers or
         other long distance samplers.
         25.18.5.1.3. When collecting gas samples, do not open the tank cover completely.
         Install a sampling port, if needed.
484                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         25.18.5.1.4. Use self-contained breathing apparatus, venting and a helper when
         taking gas samples in an IDLH environment.
      25.18.5.2. Lab Housekeeping. General cleanliness and correct storage of chemicals and
      equipment are important for accuracy as well as safety in the laboratory. Basic rules
      include:
         25.18.5.2.1. Follow a daily general cleanup schedule in the lab. Dirty glassware or
         clothing can encourage infection.
         25.18.5.2.2. Have a special spot for storing each piece of equipment. After each use,
         clean, disinfect, and return equipment to its rack (an outline painting, as on a tool
         board, helps keep a place for everything and everything in its place).
         25.18.5.2.3. Always clean up and discard any spills immediately following incident.
         All contaminated waste spills shall be disposed of in a manner consistent with
         approved waste disposal procedures and applicable environmental regulations. The
         installation Environmental Management office can provide additional guidance.
         25.18.5.2.4. Keep the lab well lighted, at least 50-foot candles on every work surface.
         25.18.5.2.5. Ensure all work benches or tables have slate or special plastic chemical-
         resistant tops or are painted with chemical-resistant paint frequently.
         25.18.5.2.6. Ensure all work areas have non-drip edges or keep work that could be
         spilled in containers that would recover the spill.
         25.18.5.2.7. If possible, provide deep sinks of stone or noncrack porcelain lined with
         disposable rubber or plastic mesh.
         25.18.5.2.8. Do not crowd the lab; have plenty of room. Do not store any other
         equipment in the lab. Do not permit food or drink preparation, eating or smoking in
         the lab.
         25.18.5.2.9. Color code all lab service lines (gas, water, electricity, etc.).
      25.18.5.3. Chemical Safety. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-22, Occupational Exposure to
      Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories, for additional guidance and information.
         25.18.5.3.1. Keep working amounts of chemicals stored in the lab to a minimum,
         never over one gallon (four [4] liters) of any one kind. Refer to Chapter 22 for
         flammable chemical requirements.
         25.18.5.3.2. Store all bulk chemicals in original containers in a separate fireproof
         storeroom. If possible, store larger bulk containers on the floor.
         25.18.5.3.3. Have individual bulk siphons to transfer chemicals from bulk storage to
         working stock bottles. Never siphon by mouth.
         25.18.5.3.4. If possible, place all chemical storage jars on wide shelves with retaining
         rails to prevent their being accidentally pulled or jarred off.
         25.18.5.3.5. Stand jars containing highly corrosive acids or bases in lead, plastic, or
         ceramic individual trays that are deep enough to contain the solution in the event the
         jar breaks.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     485



        25.18.5.3.6. Store all chemicals as low as possible, never higher than shoulder height.
        Ensure chemicals stored together or close to each other are compatible with each
        other.
        25.18.5.3.7. Clearly label all chemicals with common and chemical names, formula,
        strength, and date prepared or received. Replace these labels as needed to keep them
        legible.
        25.18.5.3.8. Add red ―Skull and Crossbones‖ labels to all containers of poisonous
        chemicals.
        25.18.5.3.9. Ensure used chemicals are carefully disposed of by workers who are
        familiar with their properties and disposal requirements. Do not flush them down the
        drain unless permitted by environmental disposal requirements. Contact the
        installation Environmental Management office for proper disposal guidelines.
        25.18.5.3.10. Keep highly reactive chemicals stored at safe distances.
     25.18.5.4. Lab Equipment Safety.
        25.18.5.4.1. Only trained, experienced technicians are permitted to operate lab
        equipment.
        25.18.5.4.2. Exact, clear operating procedures for autoclaves, water stills and any
        other special pressure equipment shall be permanently posted near the respective
        equipment.
        25.18.5.4.3. Valves and switches on such equipment shall be clearly numbered in
        their order of use.
        25.18.5.4.4. All electrical equipment shall be grounded.
        25.18.5.4.5. All electrical cords shall be inspected for wear or cracks in insulation
        and shall be replaced as necessary.
        25.18.5.4.6. Manufacturer‘s operating and safety instructions shall be kept in a
        permanent file. Supervisors will ensure workers follow these rules.
        25.18.5.4.7. All equipment shall be set away from gas and electrical service switches
        or valves.
        25.18.5.4.8. All chemical reactions that produce vapors or gases shall be conducted
        in a ventilated hood with front closed and fan on.
        25.18.5.4.9. Chemicals with high temperature reactions shall be heated in a water, oil
        or salt bath, not over an open flame. A wired glass shield shall be placed between the
        fan and any high temperature or caustic reaction in case the vial or container breaks.
        25.18.5.4.10. Workers will ensure centrifuges are perfectly balanced before turning
        them on.
     25.18.5.5. Glass Safety.
        25.18.5.5.1. Always fire polish all ends of glass tubes that are used or stored.
        25.18.5.5.2. Wear gloves any time you are working with glass.
 486                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          25.18.5.5.3. Hold rod or tube in contact with stopper and twist to insert.
          25.18.5.5.4. Keep cork borers sharp and use exact size needed.
          25.18.5.5.5. PYREX, KIMAX or equivalent tubing should be used whenever
          possible.
          25.18.5.5.6. Wear full or wrap-around goggles or a face shield when working with
          glass.
          25.18.5.5.7. Always support glass units with several padded clamps that are firmly
          anchored.
          25.18.5.5.8. Properly discard all glassware that is chipped or cracked in any way.
          25.18.5.5.9. Pad all glass storage drawers with clean paper towels. Change the towels
          frequently. Have individual cardboard tubes or dividers for pipette storage drawers.
       25.18.5.6. Lab Safety Procedures. The safest lab can be dangerous unless precautions are
       observed.
          25.18.5.6.1. Never pipette by mouth; always use a bulk siphon.
          25.18.5.6.2. Always wear rubber gloves to handle wastewater samples and perform
          analysis.
          25.18.5.6.3. Always scrub thoroughly and use a hand disinfectant after finishing any
          waste-water lab work.
          25.18.5.6.4. Know proper procedures and follow a checklist.
          25.18.5.6.5. Wear safety glasses or goggles in the lab, when required for safe
          operations.
          25.18.5.6.6. Always wear a rubber apron when working with acids or caustics.
   25.18.6. Sanitary Sewer Systems. The buddy system shall be used when maintenance is
   performed on sewer systems in confined spaces. Before going into a sanitary sewer system,
   the atmosphere shall be tested to determine if dangerous gases are present. Sewer gases that
   may be encountered are methane, hydrogen sulfide and carbon monoxide. Presence of these
   gases could cause explosions, asphyxia or death. Refer to Chapter 23 for additional
   requirements. Workers will use proper protective clothing, boots and respirator devices to
   perform emergency maintenance or rescue operations when these systems cannot be vented
   to a safe level. Immunizations required, such as tetanus, typhoid, cholera, etc., shall be
   determined by the installation medical authority IAW AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and
   Chemoprophylaxis.
25.19. Aircraft Arresting Systems (AAS).
   25.19.1. Personnel engaged in AAS operations and maintenance are exposed to several
   potential hazards, including exposure to flammable and combustible liquids and gases and
   absorption of toxic and hazardous chemicals through the skin and respiratory system. AAS
   personnel are subject to some physical injuries associated with AAS maintenance, and are
   also subject to noise, lifting hazards, and in underground facilities, confined space hazards
   (e.g., oxygen deficiency). Particular attention shall be given to prevent exposure to hazardous
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      487



  noise levels since the effects of over-exposure are not always apparent immediately or in the
  near future. Potential physical and health hazards can be effectively controlled by following
  guidance in this chapter, by proper work procedures and controls, and by using protective
  equipment and clothing. Refer to Chapter 14 , AFI 32-1043, Managing, Operating, and
  Maintaining Aircraft Arrest Systems, TO 35E8-2-4-1, Operation and Maintenance
  Instruction Arresting Gear, ACFT Mod Bak-9/F48A, TO 35E8-2-5-1, Operation and
  Maintenance ACFT Arresting System Mod BAK-12/E32A, and AFOSH Standard 48-20,
  Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program, for additional guidance.
  25.19.2. Requirements.
     25.19.2.1. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping is essential to safe operations in AAS
     operations and maintenance areas:
         25.19.2.1.1. Floors and grounds shall be kept free of grease and spilled liquids to
         minimize slips and falls.
         25.19.2.1.2. In addition, dry floors are essential to electrical safety.
         25.19.2.1.3. All work and storage areas shall be kept clean. Equipment and materials
         shall be stored in a proper and orderly manner.
         25.19.2.1.4. Because toxic and hazardous chemicals cling to clothing and body parts,
         workers should be extremely careful about personal hygiene. They will wash hands
         thoroughly before eating or smoking and shower and change clothes after completion
         of work with chemicals.
     25.19.2.2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Engineering and administrative
     controls are the preferred means of protecting personnel. The use of PPE is supplemental
     to and not a replacement for such controls. PPE is identified in the text, Figure 25.1, and
     is also contained in Chapter 14.
     25.19.2.3. Fire Prevention. Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, provides
     guidance on the storage, use, and handling of flammable and combustible liquids. In
     addition, consult the installation FES Flight and Chapter 6, Fire Protection and
     Prevention, for guidance on selection and placement of fire extinguishers and required
     training.
     25.19.2.4. Equipment and Component Cleaning.
         25.19.2.4.1. If compressed air is used, limit the air pressure to the lowest possible
         level. Generally, 5 psi is adequate for equipment cleaning. Air pressure shall be kept
         less than 30 psi when used for cleaning and only when the nozzle is equipped with
         effective chip guarding and PPE is used. Eye protection with side shielding is
         required when using compressed air.
         25.19.2.4.2. If solvents are used, use only approved and authorized types and ensure
         adequate ventilation is maintained throughout the operation. If process not already
         evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for
         additional guidance. Refer to the most current edition of ACGIH‘s Industrial
         Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance,
         for additional information on ventilation requirements.
488                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      25.19.2.5. Tools and Equipment.
         25.19.2.5.1. Insulated metal tools shall be used while performing work on energized
         equipment. Dipped coated tools adds extra protection to tools, equipment and
         personnel, and are acceptable. Taping is not an acceptable means of insulation.
         Wooden handle tools shall not be issued or used.
         25.19.2.5.2. All tools shall be maintained in a serviceable condition IAW TO 32-1-
         101, Use and Care of Hand Tools.
         25.19.2.5.3. Tools, when not in use, shall be kept in suitable containers and not in
         pockets or left on the floor of the work area.
         25.19.2.5.4. Whenever a tool develops a defect during use, the operation shall be
         stopped and the tool returned for repair or replacement.
         25.19.2.5.5. When the work is complete, all tools and equipment shall be accounted
         for before departing the work site.
      25.19.2.6. Illumination. At least 50 foot candles of illumination shall be maintained at
      the operator‘s position. Where necessary, additional artificial lighting shall be supplied.
      25.19.2.7. Occupational Health.
         25.19.2.7.1. When noise level surveys identify a need for hearing protection,
         earplugs, earmuffs or both shall be provided to all personnel and their use strictly
         enforced. Emphasis shall also be placed on all personnel who are within the area and
         may be affected by a noise hazard when noise sources are operating. If process not
         already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraphs 2.3
         and 3.1.2.11 for additional guidance.
         25.19.2.7.2. Where the eyes or body of any person may be exposed to corrosive
         materials, suitable emergency showers shall be provided within the work area for
         immediate emergency use IAW Chapter 19. If personnel are only exposed to
         materials considered to be an irritant to the eyes, a portable eyewash that provides 15
         minutes of continuous flow may be used as an alternative for a plumbed eyewash. A
         water hose may NOT be used to meet the requirement in this paragraph. Medical
         attention shall be obtained as soon as adequate flushing and drenching of the eyes or
         body has been accomplished. When work is performed at locations where it is not
         feasible to provide emergency showers or eyewash units, portable eyewash bottles
         may be used to provide initial flushing of the injured area until the affected worker
         can reach an emergency shower or eyewash unit. Supervisors will contact the
         installation Ground Safety office for assistance in determining how to meet the
         requirements of this paragraph.
         25.19.2.7.3. Where there is a possibility of injury from caustic cleaning materials,
         flying particles, splatters or chips, eye and face protection shall be worn, as
         appropriate.
         25.19.2.7.4. Training. First aid training shall be provided at installation level for
         AAS individuals in need of such training. An initial group of first aid instructors shall
         be trained either by installation medical services or the American Red Cross. These
         instructors shall be responsible for providing first aid training for AAS personnel.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       489



        IAW AFH 36-2218, Volume 1, Self Aid and Buddy Care, individuals requiring this
        training shall be locally identified by the AAS supervisor, installation FES Flight and
        BE. The installation Ground Safety office will confirm first aid training was
        accomplished during the unit‘s annual safety inspection.
     25.19.2.8. Whether by the installation Medical Group, American Red Cross or other
     appropriate organization, CPR training shall be provided for AAS individuals in need of
     such training. Each unit shall establish an initial group of CPR instructors. They may
     acquire this training from the installation medical services, the American Red Cross or
     the American Heart Association.
        25.19.2.8.1. Personnel whose normal daily job exposes them to energized electric
        circuits shall be identified by the AAS supervisor to receive this training. Identified
        personnel will recertify annually and provide written documentation of recertification.
        25.19.2.8.2. CPR training is emergency training and is not a substitute for safe
        electrical work practices.
        25.19.2.8.3. Electrical circuits shall always be de-energized before attempting any
        work unless the nature of the work itself requires that the circuits remain energized.
        Prior to working on electrical circuits, an energized work permit is required and
        prepared by a qualified supervisor prior to working on or near any energized circuit
        regardless of the task. Approval and endorsement of the work permit is accomplished
        when maintenance or repair action to energized circuits/parts is required IAW AFI
        32-1064. Installation CE endorsement/approval is not needed for tasks that place the
        circuit or part to be worked in an electrically safe condition (de-energized), inspection
        actions or voltage testing. However, an energized work permit is still required and
        shall be completed by a qualified supervisor in order to determine the proper PPE and
        work procedures to be followed.
     25.19.2.9. Points to Remember.
        25.19.2.9.1. Walking and Working Surfaces. Essential information is included in this
        standard. Refer to Chapter 7 for more detailed information on walking surfaces,
        openings and holes.
            25.19.2.9.1.1. The entrance to BAK-9 and BAK-12 pits is hazardous because of
            the ladder and hatchway counterweight proximity and the presence of the sump
            pump pit. Use extreme caution in both areas. Workers shall be trained in confined
            spaces and entry procedures IAW Chapter 23. The CSPT will determine if the
            barrier pits are classified as confined spaces.
            25.19.2.9.1.2. Use the two-person policy when working on the BAK-9 and BAK-
            12 due to pit cover weight and underground location, etc.
            25.19.2.9.1.3. Be observant of liquid spills. Most fluids associated with the AAS
            are very slippery and can result in serious injury.
        25.19.2.9.2. Active Runway Precautions. Communication is the key to controlling
        this hazard. Ensure continuous communication is maintained between the tower and
        operations during all phases of maintenance and operations. Contact installation
490                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         Airfield Manager or designated representative for training requirements and
         qualifications for operating vehicles on an airfield.
             25.19.2.9.2.1. Maintain proper runway clearance as prescribed by local
             regulation. When approaching an active runway, do not proceed to a point beyond
             the runway hold position, or an equivalent distance from the runway edge without
             proper clearance from the Air Traffic Control tower.
             25.19.2.9.2.2. Maintain adequate clearances to all types of engagements. Note:
             There is a hazard of the pendant or tape breaking, causing a whiplash of the
             extended tape or pendant.
             25.19.2.9.2.3. Rotating Machinery Precautions. Rotating machinery is a hazard
             with all AAS. Use extreme caution during rewind operations and checkouts. Refer
             to 35E-8-series TOs and Chapter 18, Machinery, for detailed guidance.
             25.19.2.9.2.4. High Voltage Precautions. High voltages are present in the BAK-9
             system and airfield lighting system components; use caution and two-person
             policy.
  25.19.3. Runway Barriers.
      25.19.3.1. When engaging aircraft, the facilities (above or below ground) housing the
      arresting equipment shall be evacuated. Dangers arise from inhaling vapors or brake pad
      dust, which may contain asbestos particles. In addition, equipment failure can cause
      debris to fly about. Operators shall remain clear of the tape sweep area. Bailout alarms
      shall be included in barrier buildings to allow notification to evacuate the facilities by the
      tower.
      25.19.3.2. When engaging an aircraft, personnel shall be behind the runway holding
      position, and at least 25 feet from the arresting system energy absorber. For MA-1A, E-5,
      and BAK-15 systems, personnel should retreat a distance equal to the span between the
      edge sheaves or 1.5 times the runway width, whichever is greater, but no closer than a
      distance equal to that of the runway holding position.
      25.19.3.3. Each operator shall be trained in the use of hand signals IAW AFI 32-1043,
      Managing, Operating, and Maintaining Aircraft Arresting Systems, and any applicable
      TOs.. Refer to Figure 35.21 for additional guidance.
      25.19.3.4. When returning to a facility (above or below ground) after an engagement or
      to clean the equipment, protective clothing and respiratory protection may be necessary.
      Refer to BE‘s OEH risk assessment to determine if type of clothing and respiratory
      protedtion are recommended. This information shall be posted in each AAS facility.
      25.19.3.5. All arresting systems (barriers) require a minimum of three (3) operators.
      Underground arresting systems require additional operators. Refer to applicable TO
      35E8-series for additional requirements.
      25.19.3.6. All operators shall be aware when cable is being rewound.
      25.19.3.7. Sufficient ventilation shall be provided during maintenance or rewinding
      operations.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       491



       25.19.3.8. Operators shall be made aware of tripping hazards when using barriers.
       Hearing and respiratory protection shall also be used, as required.
25.20. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for CE Operations. Following is a quick
reference guide to PPE that may be required for selected activities and equipment in CE
operations. It is not all inclusive and the omission of an activity or item of equipment does not
mean PPE is not required. The supervisor is ultimately responsible for providing and enforcing
wear of PPE determined as recommended or required for the process by the installation Ground
Safety or BE. Specific PPE for each work area and person is determined through coordination
with the supervisor, unit commander, Ground Safety office and BE. BE is the OPR and
installation authority for determination of respiratory protection IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137.
All questions concerning respiratory protection shall be addressed to BE. The worker is
responsible for the care and proper use of PPE provided. PPE shall be provided and used by
workers wherever inhalation, absorption or phsyical contact injuries may occur. Refer to
Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional information on PPE. Note:
For respiratory protection, consult BE‘s OEH risk assessment.

Figure 25.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) For CE Operations.
          Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) For CE Operations
OPERATION                                   MINIMUM PPE REQUIRED

Operating Construction Equipment:

   Dump Truck, Roller, Paver                            Safety-toe boots
                                                        Gloves
                                                        Head protection


   Loader, Grader, Sweeper, Backhoe, Bulldozer          Safety-toe boots
                                                        Gloves
                                                        Head protection
                                                        Eye protection (if dusty)
                                                        Hearing protection
                                                        Respiratory protection (if dusty)

   Crane                                                Safety-toe boots
                                                        Gloves
                                                        Hearing protection
                                                        Head protection
492                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Pavement Maintenance Equipment:

  Jackhammer, Pneumatic Drill/Tools        Respiratory protection
                                           Safety-toe boots
                                           Eye protection
                                           Face protection
                                           Hearing protection
                                           Gloves: Chemical resistant, vibration
                                           dampening (if required)
                                           Head protection

  Concrete Saw, Router, Pavement Grinder   Safety-toe boots
                                           Eye protection
                                           Hearing protection
                                           Respiratory protection (if dusty)
                                           Gloves: Chemical resistant, vibration
                                           dampening (if required)
                                           Head protection

  Asphalt Kettle                           Safety-toe boots
                                           Eye protection
                                           Gloves
                                           Apron
                                           Respiratory protection

   Concrete Mixer                          Safety-toe boots
                                           Eye protection
                                           Respiratory protection
                                           Hearing protection (if noisy)
                                           Head protection

Landscape Maintenance Equipment:
  Walk-Behind Mower, Powered Edger         Safety-toe boots
                                           Eye protection
                                           Hearing protection
                                           Respiratory protection (if dusty)
                                           Head protection
                                           Safety-toe boots

  Riding Mower                             Eye protection
                                           Hearing protection
                                           Respiratory protection (if dusty)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                      493



  Tractor-Towed Mower                   Safety-toe boots
                                        Eye protection
                                        Hearing protection
                                        Respiratory protection (if dusty)
                                        Gloves
                                        Head protection

  Chain Saw                             Safety-toe boots
                                        Eye protection
                                        Hearing protection
                                        Respiratory protection (if dusty)
                                        Gloves
                                        Head protection
                                        Leggings

  Powered Auger Rototiller              Safety-toe boots
                                        Eye protection
                                        Hearing protection
                                        Gloves
                                        Head protection

  Stump Cutter, Chipper                 Safety-toe boots
                                        Eye protection
                                        Hearing protection
                                        Gloves
                                        Head protection

  Lawn Roller                           Safety-toe boots
                                        Gloves

  Fertilizer Handling and Application   Safety-toe boots
                                        Eye protection
                                        Respiratory protection
                                        Coveralls
                                        Gloves (chemical resistant)

Stationary Woodworking Machinery        Eye protection
                                        Hearing protection
                                        Respiratory protection (if dusty)

  Portable Power Tools                  Eye protection
                                        Hearing protection
                                        Respiratory protection (if dusty)
 494                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   Powder-Actuated Tools                              Eye protection
                                                      Hearing protection

General Carpentry, Painting, Plumbing, Sheet Metal,   Safety-toe boots
Welding and Masonry                                   Gloves (chemical resistant)
                                                      Eye protection
                                                      Face protection
                                                      Knee pad protection (if extended
                                                      kneeling)
                                                      Hardhat (overhead hazards)
                                                      Respiratory protection (if Required by
                                                      BE)


Roofing                                               Fall protection
                                                      Eye and burn protection (if using
                                                      asphalt, e.g., gloves, long sleeve
                                                      shirts, aprons, etc.)
                                                      Head protection

Soldering, Brazing, Welding                           Safety-toe boots
                                                      Eye protection
                                                      Gloves
                                                      Respiratory protection (if required)

Spray Painting                                        Eye protection
                                                      Respiratory protection (if using dry
                                                      tints)
                                                      Gloves
                                                      Coveralls

Paint Mixing                                          Eye/Face protection
                                                      Respiratory protection (if using dry
                                                      tints)
                                                      Gloves

Working in Sewers                                     Respiratory protection
                                                      Gloves
                                                      Rubber boots
                                                      Coveralls
                                                      Head protection
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      495



Metal-Working Machinery                                Safety-toe boots
                                                       Eye protection
                                                       Gloves
                                                       Head protection (if overhead crane
                                                       system is in use)
                                                       Hearing protection

Mixing Concrete or Mortar                              Safety-toe boots
                                                       Gloves
                                                       Eye protection
                                                       Respiratory protection
                                                       Hearing protection

   Placing Brick or Block, etc.                        Safety-toe boots
                                                       Gloves
                                                       Eye protection

   Cleaning Masonry                                    Eye protection
                                                       Acid resistant gloves

Working Below Other Workers                            Eye protection
                                                       Head protection

General Refrigeration or Heating Work                  Safety-toe boots
                                                       Gloves (chemical resistant)

Exterior Electric Work or Overhead Distribution (AFI Head protection
32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, and ETL 06-9, ARC Fall protection (safety harness,
Flash PPE)                                            lanyard)
                                                      Electrician gloves
                                                      Safety-toe boots
                                                      ARC Flash PPE (if required)


General Interior Electric and Power Production Work
or Barrier Maintenance                                 Safety-toe boots ARC Flash PPE (if
                                                       required)
                                                       Eye protection
                                                       Gloves
                                                       Respiratory Protection
                                                       ARC Flash PPE (if required)
 496                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Battery Work (Liquid Electrolyte)                        Safety-toe boots
                                                         Acid resistant gloves and apron
                                                         Eye and face protection

General Water or Waste Work                              Safety-toe boots
                                                         Gloves (chemical resistant)
                                                         Splash protection for face
                                                         Life vest

Water or Waste Laboratory                                Eye protection
                                                         Respiratory protection
                                                         Chemical resistant gloves
                                                         Chemical resistant apron

General Materials Handling                               Safety-toe boots
                                                         Gloves
                                                         Hard hat (overhead hazard)
25.21. Civil Engineering Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists
in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   25.21.1. Are lines completely drained of existing air prior to opening compressed air lines
   and are new lines completely secured prior to air entry into the system? Reference 25.6.5
   25.21.2. Are the front bucket (if so equipped) and outriggers of a backhoe in fully-down
   positions before digging is attempted? Reference 25.12.1
   25.21.3. Is the entire area where the backhoe digging arm may swing cleared of personnel?
   Reference 25.12.1
   25.21.4. Is backhoe operation under energized lines permitted only when absolutely
   necessary and are these operations approved by the commander? Reference 25.12.1
   25.21.5. During travel to and from worksites, is the backhoe completely folded, secured and
   centered? Reference 25.12.1)
   25.21.6. During mobile crane operation, is a person appointed to provide signals to the
   operator? Reference 25.12.2.3.2
   25.21.7. Before leaving a crane unattended, are all shutdown procedures performed?
   Reference 25.12.2.3.5
   25.21.8. Are crane load weights determined before lifting? Reference 25.12.2.4.1
   25.21.9. Are crane outriggers, when required, set before lifting, telescoping the boom or
   turning a load within the ratings? Reference 25.12.2.4.1
   25.21.10. Are loads transported on cranes specifically designed for this purpose? Reference
   25.12.2.4.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         497



  25.21.11. Are crane outriggers used, regardless of the load, when the ground is soft or
  otherwise unstable? Reference 25.12.2.4.12
  25.21.12. When two or more cranes are used to lift one load, is one person designated as the
  responsible individual? Reference 25.12.2.4.14
  25.21.13. Are normal routes for assigned cranes designated and approved by safety?
  Reference 25.12.2.5
  25.21.14. Are required safety measures such as securing the empty hook, attaching warning
  flags (as necessary), etc., taken before the crane is moved to a new job site? Reference
  25.12.2.5
  25.21.15. Are all parts of the crane and load restricted within 10 feet of an energized power
  line? If this is not practical, is the line de-energized and visibly grounded? Reference
  25.12.2.7.2
  25.21.16. Are additional clearances assured for work near lines greater than 50 kV and are
  they listed on AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request? Reference
  25.12.2.7.3
  25.21.17. Is a permanent sign posted within the crane cab warning of electrical power line
  dangers and restrictions? Reference 25.12.2.7.4
  25.21.18. Is an approved fire extinguisher kept in the crane cab? Reference 25.12.2.10
  25.21.19. Are dump trucks operated within the load capabilities established by the
  manufacturer and consideration given to the specified weights of the material being carried?
  Reference 25.12.3
  25.21.20. If dump truck loads pose a flying debris hazard is the load covered with a tarp or
  similar covering? Reference 25.12.3
  25.21.21. Before dumping the vehicle‘s load, do operators check overhead clearance both
  directly over the vehicle and ahead of it in the direction to be traveled while the body is still
  raised? Reference 25.12.3
  25.21.22. Are sweepers operated on airfields in direct contact with control tower or escorted
  by a vehicle that is? Reference 25.12.7
  25.21.23. Is a good water supply maintained during concrete saw operations? Reference
  25.12.9
  25.21.24. Are proper lifting techniques used during pavement breaker (jackhammer)
  operation and transport? Reference 25.12.10
  25.21.25. Are concrete mixers supported in stable positions prior to operation? Reference
  25.12.12
  25.21.26. Are kettles operated only if FES Flight approval has been obtained? Reference
  25.12.14.1
  25.21.27. Is an appropriate fire extinguisher available near the kettle? Reference 25.12.14.5
498                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  25.21.28. Are kettles watched closely to ensure the safe heating temperature specified by the
  product manufacturer is maintained during heating? Reference 25.12.14.6
  25.21.29. Is material eased into the kettle to prevent splashing? Reference 25.12.14.6
  25.21.30. Are open flames or other sources of ignition not permitted near material heated to
  its flash point? Reference 25.12.14.7
  25.21.31. Are air supply lines marked or tagged to identify the maximum psi on the lines?
  Reference 25.12.17.1
  25.21.32. Are woodworking machines shut down, locked out and tagged during
  maintenance? Reference 25.13.2.1
  25.21.33. When machine guards are removed for authorized maintenance, is the machine
  locked out and tagged? Reference 25.13.2.1
  25.21.34. Are industrial ventilation systems installed where machines that develop fine dust
  or other airborne contaminants are used? Reference 25.13.3.1
  25.21.35. Do industrial ventilation systems exhaust to an enclosed collection container?
  Reference 25.13.3.3
  25.21.36. When lumber is stored in tiers, is it stacked, blocked and interlocked? Reference
  25.13.4.1
  25.21.37. When stock cannot be safely handled by hand, is suitable mechanical handling
  equipment available and used? Reference 25.13.4.2
  25.21.38. Are roofing materials segregated and stored in stable stacks that are safe from
  falling? Reference 25.13.5.2
  25.21.39. Do workers take appropriate fall prevention measures, as required? Reference
  25.13.5.4
  25.21.40. Are tar kettles and pots located so they will not pose a fire hazard during roofing
  operations? Reference 25.13.5.10
  25.21.41. Are workers aware of potential hazards associated with use of Portland Cement?
  (Reference 25.13.6.1)
  25.21.42. Are gears, pulleys, chains or belts on power mixers adequately guarded?
  Reference 25.13.6.6
  25.21.43. Is the power source for electrically operated mixers grounded? Reference
  25.13.6.6
  25.21.44. Are locations of underground utilities identified prior to any excavations?
  Reference 25.13.6.7.1
  25.21.45. Are operators trained and familiar with operating instructions of torches and
  furnaces before being permitted to use them? Reference 25.15.4.1.1
  25.21.46. Are torches and furnaces restricted from use where flammable or explosive
  environments may be present? Reference 25.15.4.1.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        499



  25.21.47. Is the use of gasoline torches and furnaces prohibited in small, unventilated
  spaces? Reference 25.15.4.1.3
  25.21.48. Are appropriate fire extinguishers available as required during torch and furnace
  operations? Reference 25.15.4.1.5
  25.21.49. Are electric soldering irons grounded unless double insulated? Reference
  25.15.4.2.3
  25.21.50. Are soldering irons placed in suitable non-combustible receptacles when not in
  use? Reference 25.15.4.2.3
  25.21.51. Are industrial waste manholes treated as confined spaces and appropriate safety
  measures taken prior to entry? Reference 25.15.5
  25.21.52. Are proper pry bar tools, special lifting tools, and additional help used when lifting
  manhole covers as necessary? Reference 25.15.6.1
  25.21.53. Are tools used to repair leaks or perform maintenance on gas lines spark-free and
  is clothing static-free? Reference 25.15.7
  25.21.54. Are atmospheric conditions tested prior to entry into tunnels, pits and sumps?
  Reference 25.15.8.1
  25.21.55. Are tunnels, pits, and sumps (which are known to be contaminated) tagged or
  identified for information of work crews? Reference 25.15.8.1
  25.21.56. Is a second person available to provide emergency assistance (without entry) for
  persons entering a confined space manhole or vault? Reference 25.15.8.3
  25.21.57. Is all gas piping guarded or shielded to protect workers from accidental contact?
  Reference 25.16.2.1
  25.21.58. Are all equipment room belts, pulleys and rotating shafts adequately guarded?
  Reference 25.16.2.2
  25.21.59. Are compressed gas cylinders adequately stored and handled? Reference 25.16.3
  25.21.60. Are written operating procedures and detailed checklists for operator guidance
  posted in all equipment rooms with boilers? Reference 25.17.1
  25.21.61. Are purge procedures with necessary interlocks developed for normal boiler start-
  up and on-line operations? Reference 25.17.1.2
  25.21.62. Is water in boilers maintained at proper levels and checked as required? Reference
  25.17.2.1
  25.21.63. Are water columns monitored to ensure connections are clear and water returns to
  proper levels when drain valves are closed? Reference 25.17.2.1
  25.21.64. Are appropriate actions taken when water is not visible in the gauge glass?
  Reference 25.17.2.1
  25.21.65. Are furnace boilers and breaching ventilated prior to lighting? Reference 25.17.2.2
500                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  25.21.66. Are boilers, flame safeguard supervisory systems and other safety controls
  inspected during scheduled shutdowns (at least annually) by authorized inspectors?
  Reference 25.17.3.3
  25.21.67. Are all 4-inch and larger steam valves or main steam valves operated only by
  authorized personnel? Reference 25.17.4.1
  25.21.68. Are high-pressure steam valves in enclosed areas or confined spaces prevented
  from releasing steam through the use of a double block and bleed or similar system?
  Reference 25.17.4.2)
  25.21.69. Are drain valves opened and water removed from steam lines prior to opening
  high-pressure steam valves? Reference 25.17.4.5
  25.21.70. Is pressure relieved through all possible means prior to dismantling a valve?
  Reference 25.17.4.8
  25.21.71. Are all vaults, manholes, and tanks considered confined spaces and proper
  precautions taken, e.g., atmospheric testing, use of respirators, etc., prior to entry or
  otherwise proven not hazardous? Reference 25.17.5.1
  25.21.72. Are all boilers equipped with steam and water gauges, gauge cocks, safety and
  blowoff valves and low water cutoff devices? Reference 25.17.6.1.1
  25.21.73. Are boiler feedlines equipped with check and cutoff valves? Reference 25.17.6.1.1
  25.21.74. Are water gauge glasses located less than 15 feet from the floor or tender's
  platform carefully guarded? Reference 25.17.6.1.1
  25.21.75. Are pressure gauges inspected and tested every 12 months? Reference 25.17.6.1.1
  25.21.76. Are safety valves for boilers tested at the frequencies and by the methods
  prescribed in the National Board Inspection Code? Reference 25.17.6.1.1
  25.21.77. Are safety and blowoff valve discharge pipes located where discharge will not
  create a hazard? Reference 25.17.6.1.4
  25.21.78. Are discharge lines from hot water heater relief valves arranged with the outlet
  within six (6) inches of the floor, and not threaded, capped or plugged? Reference
  25.17.6.1.4
  25.21.79. Are boilers operated at pressures within manufacturer‘s stamped instructions or at
  pressures determined by the most recent boiler inspection, whichever is lower? Reference
  25.17.6.1.5
  25.21.80. Are hoistways, machinery, conveyors, gears, ash sluices, and reciprocating pumps
  properly guarded? Reference 25.17.6.1.14
  25.21.81. Are all boiler furnaces operating at 30,000,000 BTU per hour or more staffed at all
  times? Reference 25.17.6.2
  25.21.82. Are all eyewash units and emergency showers operable and inspected? Reference
  25.17.6.3.4.3
  25.21.83. Are all chemicals stored properly? Reference 25.17.6.3.5.1 – 25.17.6.3.6.3
  25.21.84. Are railroad coal cars posted with signs as required? Reference 25.17.6.4.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     501



  25.21.85. Is there a qualified brakeman, other than coal-handling personnel, working with
  the crane or switch engine? Reference 25.17.6.4.5
  25.21.86. Are safety precautions established and followed whenever coal storage facilities
  are entered? Reference 25.17.6.5.2
  25.21.87. Are relief valves installed after pumps on fuel pumping lines? Reference
  25.17.6.6.3
  25.21.88. Are required procedures and methods used in all areas addressed in this chapter
  when entering system components that can be classified as confined spaces? Reference
  25.18.1
  25.21.89. Are chemical treatment rooms that are identified as potential IDLH areas equipped
  with a telephone located outside the IDLH area, or are other means of communication used?
  Reference 25.18.1.7
  25.21.90. Are mechanical exhaust systems in chemical treatment rooms turned on prior to
  entry? Reference 25.18.1.7
  25.21.91. At shredding and grinding stations, is power turned off and locked out before
  servicing? Reference 25.18.3.2.2
  25.21.92. Are guards and screens in place at shredding and grinding stations? Reference
  25.18.3.2.3
  25.21.93. Are approved life vests and lifelines located around sedimentation basins?
  Reference 25.18.3.6.5
  25.21.94. Are guards provided around moving parts of clarifiers? Reference 25.18.3.6.7
  25.21.95. Are guardrails in place for work areas and walkways around aeration tanks?
  Reference 25.18.3.13.1
  25.21.96. Are approved life vests with lifelines located at appropriate points around aerator
  rails? Reference 25.18.3.13.2
  25.21.97. Are life vests available and worn when working in a boat or raft on stabilization
  ponds? Reference 25.18.3.14.3
  25.21.98. Are laboratories clean and chemicals stored properly? Reference 25.18.5.2
  25.21.99. Is all electrical equipment properly grounded in laboratories? Reference
  25.18.5.4.4
  25.21.100. Is good housekeeping maintained in all AAS operations and maintenance areas?
  Reference 25.19.2.1
  25.21.101. Are flammable and combustible liquids stored, used and handled IAW Chapter
  22, Flammables and Combustibles? Reference 25.19.2.3
  25.21.102. When using compressed air for cleaning is air pressure less than 30 psi and is
  required PPE used? Reference 25.19.2.4.1
  25.21.103. When working on active runways, is continuous communication maintained with
  the tower and operations? Reference 25.19.2.9.2
502                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  25.21.104. Are facilities housing the AAS evacuated to proper distances prior to aircraft
  engagement? Reference 25.19.3.1
  25.21.105. Are the minimum number of operators available IAW applicable TOs? Reference
  25.19.3.5
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          503



                                            Chapter 26

          AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS AND IMPLEMENT ATTACHMENTS

26.1. Hazards and Human Factors. Injury to workers and damage to equipment are usually
the result of careless or improper handling of tractors and the attached implements. The failure of
workers to install and maintain guards at the point of operation, unauthorized removal of guards
or controls, improper maintenance and unsafe operating practices are principal sources of
mishaps. Tractor operators are exposed to many conditions which can affect their ability to
safely operate equipment. Fatigue, equipment, vibration and environmental conditions such as
noise, dust, engine exhaust, noxious fumes, temperature and climate may impair their physical
condition and affect their awareness and judgment. Tractor operators must be acutely aware of
pedestrian traffic in high noise areas such as aircraft parking ramps and taxiways, since the
equipment shall normally not be heard and other personnel will not be aware of their presence.
Operator training, environmental controls, maintenance programs and job planning shall
eliminate the majority of hazards generated by or encountered in the operation of agricultural
tractors and equipment.
26.2. Requirements.
   26.2.1. Procurement. Agricultural tractors procured for the Air Force shall meet the
   requirements of 29 CFR 1928.51, Rollover Protective Structures (ROPS) for Tractors Used
   in Agricultural Operations, and military specifications. Where commercially available,
   agricultural tractors and implement attachments shall be purchased with noise levels at the
   operator position of less than 85 Decibels-A-Weighted (dBA).
   26.2.2. Supervisor‘s Responsibilities.
       26.2.2.1. Ensure operators have completed a Commander approved training program
       IAW AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, for agricultural tractor operations. The program
       shall include, at a minimum, training on safe operating procedures and practices dictated
       by the work environment. Refer to paragraph 26.2.4 and AFI 24-301, paragraph 8.17. for
       additional information.
       26.2.2.2. Be knowledgeable of terrain conditions in all areas of operation, especially
       where the degree of slope is at or exceeds a 4-inch (20-25°) drop or rise per foot of travel.
       26.2.2.3. Identify hazardous areas to operators, particularly those where the use of
       agricultural tractors is prohibited.
       26.2.2.4. Ensure availability and use of PPE that minimizes the possibility of injury to
       operators. These shall normally consist of:
           26.2.2.4.1. Safety spectacles with side shields or goggles.
           26.2.2.4.2. Hard hats when danger exists from falling objects and overhead
           obstructions.
           26.2.2.4.3. Leather shoes or boots with a minimum of Class 75 safety-toe.
           26.2.2.4.4. Leather or coated fabric gloves.
504                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         26.2.2.4.5. Noise and respiratory protection when determined necessary by BE.
      26.2.2.5. Ensure operators understand that no other riders are permitted on the tractor.
      26.2.2.6. Ensure operator‘s manual is accessible and warning decals are properly placed
      on tractor and implement attachments.
      26.2.2.7. Ensure operators are both physically and mentally fit before operating a tractor
      or implement attachment(s). Operators shall not be fatigued, stressed or on any
      medication, alcohol or drugs that may hinder safe operation of tractor or machinery.
      26.2.2.8. Ensure the tractor is only used for tasks it was designed for.
  26.2.3. Operator‘s Responsibilities.
      26.2.3.1. Operators shall wear and maintain the required PPE during all operations.
      26.2.3.2. All guards shall be kept in place when the tractor and implement attachments
      are in operation.
      26.2.3.3. Items not permanently installed, such as tools, radios, water coolers, shall be
      secured so they do not pose a hazard to operators and equipment should the tractor
      malfunction or overturn.
      26.2.3.4. Riders other than the operator shall not be permitted.
      26.2.3.5. Tractors equipped with cabs, operators shall clear the windshield and other
      transparent surfaces of ice, snow, dirt, grass and other obstructions to vision prior to use.
      Cracked or severely scratched windshield or transparent surfaces for vision shall be
      reported and repaired or replaced.
      26.2.3.6. Operators shall ensure all other personnel are safely clear of machinery prior to
      operation of the tractor or any attachment(s).
      26.2.3.7. Operators shall stop the engine, disconnect the power source, and wait for all
      machine movement to stop before servicing, adjusting or cleaning the equipment, except
      where the machine must be running to be properly serviced or maintained. In this case,
      the operator shall follow all steps as listed within the manufacturer‘s procedures or
      technical data to safely service or maintain the equipment.
      26.2.3.8. Operators shall be especially alert when operating over rough ground and
      limited access areas, and shall reduce vehicle speed when operating on sloping terrain.
      Mowing operations shall not be performed on slopes at or greater than a 4-inch (20-25°)
      drop or rise per foot of travel. When the operator is in doubt as to the degree of slope, the
      operation shall cease until the degree of slope is confirmed. When using a sickle bar to
      mow slopes, the sickle bar shall be placed on the up-slope side of the tractor.
      26.2.3.9. Operators shall park tractors on level surfaces. The implement attachment shall
      be lowered to rest on the surface. After the engine has stopped, the transmission shall be
      placed in low or reverse. Automatic transmissions shall be placed in ―park‖ and the
      engine shall be shut off before the operator departs or dismounts the equipment. For flex-
      winged mowers, ensure that the appendages are folded in the ―up‖ position and the
      locking pins are securely in place.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      505



  26.2.4. Training. Every employee who operates an agricultural tractor shall be trained in safe
  operating procedures and practices dictated by the work environment IAW the Commander‘s
  approved training program. A training plan shall be developed and, at a minimum, shall
  include all attachments used by the organization and a copy of the most recent noise hazard
  survey. Refer to paragraph 26.2.2.1 for additional guidance. Specific requirements for
  licensing and training of operators of agricultural tractors will be documented IAW AFI 24-
  301.
  26.2.5. Inspection and Maintenance.
     26.2.5.1. The operator shall inspect the equipment prior to initial startup on each shift.
     Walk around the tractor and inspect for faults. Inspection shall also include: tire
     condition, ensure tires are properly inflated; fuel, oil and coolant levels; lubrication;
     exhaust system; lights and flashers; security of bolts and nuts; implement mountings; and
     minor adjustments, such as seat position, cutting height, tread width and tractor weights.
     The operator shall also inspect to ensure machine guards are properly installed and
     functioning, and verify safety signs are free from obstruction and ensure fire
     extinguishers are in place, as required. The AF Form 1800 shall be used as an inspection
     checklist and signed by the operator prior to use.
     26.2.5.2. Immediately upon starting the vehicle, the operator shall check for oil pressure
     and braking devices shall be checked for serviceable condition. Steering shall be checked
     for excessive play, which may cause a steering problem.
     26.2.5.3. Operators or qualified maintenance workers shall perform minor maintenance
     required to ensure safe operation of the vehicle.
  26.2.6. Rollover Protection. Agricultural tractors with engines exceeding 20 horsepower
  shall be fitted with Rollover Protection Structures (ROPS). If a tractor is not equipped with
  ROPS, it shall not be operated on sloped areas. ROPS-equipped tractors shall be furnished
  with seat belts meeting the requirements set forth in Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)
  Standard J4C, Motor Vehicle Seat Belt Assemblies. Where a suspended (i.e., air ride or shock
  absorber equipped) seat is used, the seatbelt shall be fastened to the movable portion of the
  seat to accommodate the ride motion of the operator. Safe driving and operating procedures
  shall reduce the risk of rollover. ROPS shall not prevent a tractor from overturning, but
  should a rollover occur, the protective structure shall minimize/prevent injury. Matching
  speed of the operating conditions, avoiding slopes that are too steep, watching for
  depressions on the downhill side and bumps on the uphill side, using engine braking when
  going downhill, and slowing down before turning are good operating procedures to mitigate
  or prevent rollovers. Additionally, the following practices shall reduce the risk of rear
  overturn: start forward motion slowly, change speed gradually, and, if possible, avoid
  backing downhill.
  26.2.7. Seatbelts shall be worn at all times while operating tractors equipped with ROPS.
  Seatbelts shall not be worn while operating tractors not equipped with ROPS.
  26.2.8. Hazardous Noise Warnings. If the noise level at the operator position is 85 dBA or
  greater, tractors shall be marked with a placard stating: ―Caution – Hazardous Noise –
  Operator Ear Protection Required.‖ A noise hazard survey shall be conducted IAW DoDI
 506                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   6055.12, Hearing Conservation Program, and a copy of the completed survey shall be
   attached to the unit training plan.
   26.2.9. Vehicle Emblems. Each agricultural tractor shall have a ―Slow Moving Vehicle‖
   emblem affixed on the rear that is clearly visible to all traffic approaching the tractor from
   the rear. Care shall be exercised to prevent obstructing the rear view of the operator.
   Agricultural tractors that are operated in high traffic areas and at night shall also be equipped
   with a flashing amber caution light to ensure visibility of the tractor from all directions.
   Tractors operating at night shall have headlights installed and used during hours of darkness.
   26.2.10. Guarding and Shielding.
       26.2.10.1. All power take-off shafts, including rear-, mid-, or side-mounted shafts, shall
       be shielded to protect employee from contact with moving machinery parts.
       26.2.10.2. Guards shall be capable of withstanding 250 pounds of force applied
       downward or inward.
       26.2.10.3. Guards shall be free of burrs and sharp edges or corners, and shall be securely
       fastened to the equipment.
       26.2.10.4. Guards may be removed for servicing or adjusting attachments only after the
       tractor has been stopped, the motor shut off, and all shafts, pulleys, and gears have ceased
       rotating, except where machinery must be running to be properly serviced or maintained.
       Guards shall be reinstalled prior to restart of the equipment for operation.
       26.2.10.5. Agricultural tractors and implement attachments may be ―field modified‖ for
       uses other than those intended by the manufacturer when the modification has been
       certified in writing by the manufacturer or equivalent entity. The manufacturer or
       equivalent entity must certify that the safety of the modified equipment has not been
       compromised during modification.
   26.2.11. Protection from Spillage. Batteries, fuel tanks, oil reservoirs and coolant systems
   shall be constructed and located or sealed to assure that spillage, which may come in contact
   with the operator in the event of an upset, shall not occur.
   26.2.12. Flight Line Operations. When an agricultural tractor is on or in the vicinity of the
   flight line, a ―Slow Moving Vehicle‖ emblem shall be affixed on the rear that is clearly
   visible to all traffic approaching the tractor from the rear. Passengers shall not be allowed to
   ride on tractors. Tractors shall remain in contact with the tower at all times. Operators shall
   coordinate with airfield management to remediate any FOD created by the use of equipment
   on/near the flight line. Refer to Chapter 24, Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operations and
   Activities, for further guidance.
   26.2.13. Operations during inclement weather will adhere to local policies concerning
   lightning warnings and watches. Additional weather information may be found in Chapter
   11, Weather Safety.
26.3. Agricultural Tractors and Implement Attachments Checklist. This is not an all
inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items
contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist.
Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       507



this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or
situations.
   26.3.1. Do design and operating characteristics of agricultural tractors in use by AF units
   meet OSHA Standards? Reference 26.2.1
   26.3.2. Do supervisory personnel take needed actions to ensure proper training of assigned
   operators? Reference 26.2.2.1
   26.3.3. Do supervisory personnel ensure operators are aware of area operating hazards due
   to terrain features and conditions? Reference 26.2.2.2
   26.3.4. Do supervisory personnel ensure operators are aware of hazardous or prohibited
   areas? Reference 26.2.2.3
   26.3.5. Do supervisory personnel ensure operators have PPE such as head, eye and ear
   protectors, gloves, respirators, etc.? Reference 26.2.2.4
   26.3.6. Is the operator‘s manual accessible and are warning decals properly placed?
   Reference 26.2.2.6
   26.3.7. Is the operator both physically and mentally fit, not fatigued or stressed, or on any
   medication, alcohol or drugs that may hinder safe operation of the tractor and machinery?
   Reference 26.2.2.7
   26.3.8. Is the tractor only used for tasks it was designed for? Reference 26.2.2.8
   26.3.9. Does the operator walk around the tractor and inspect for faults:
1.     Check radiator coolant level when cold?
2.     Visually inspect all tires?
3.     Ensure tires are properly inflated?
4.     Ensure lights and flashers are operational?
5.     Verify safety signs are free from obstruction?
6.     Ensure first aid kit and fire extinguisher are in place, as required?
7.     Check oil and fluid levels?
8.     Braking devices and excessive play in steering wheel after start-up?
References 26.2.3.2. and 26.2.5.
   26.3.10. Does the operator wear the required PPE during all operations? Reference 26.2.3.3
   26.3.11. Are all guards secured in place and kept in place during machine use? Reference
   26.2.3.4
   26.3.12. Are items not permanently installed, such as tools, radios, water coolers, etc.,
   secured so they do not pose a hazard to operators or equipment should the tractor
   malfunction or overturn? Reference 26.2.3.5
   26.3.13. Does the operator prohibit other riders from riding on the tractor? Reference
   26.2.3.6
   26.3.14. Does operator clean the windshield and other transparent surfaces of ice, snow, dirt,
   grass and other obstructions from tractors equipped with cabs to ensure clear vision prior to
   use? Reference 26.2.3.7
508                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  26.3.15. Does the operator ensure cracked or severely scratched windshield or transparent
  surfaces for vision are reported and repaired or replaced? Reference 26.2.3.7
  26.3.16. Does the operator keep personnel clear of operating machinery or attachments?
  Reference 26.2.3.8
  26.3.17. Does the operator stop the engine, disconnect the power sources, and wait for all
  machine movement to stop before servicing, adjusting, or cleaning the equipment (except
  where the machine must be running to properly service or maintain the equipment)?
  Reference 26.2.3.9
  26.3.18. Do mowing machine operators refrain from attempting to mow on slopes that
  exceed 4 inches (20-25°) of drop or rise per foot of travel? Reference 26.2.3.10
  26.3.19. When using a sickle bar attachment for mowing, does the operator always position
  the sickle bar on the up-slope side of the tractor? Reference 26.2.3.10
  26.3.20. Does the operator park the tractor on a level surface, lower the attachment so it rests
  on the surface, place the transmission in low or reverse after the engine has stopped
  (automatic transmission in ―park‖) and shut the engine off, before the operator dismounts the
  vehicle? Reference 26.2.3.11
  26.3.21. For flex-winged mowers, does the operator ensure the appendages are folded in the
  ―up‖ position and the locking pins are securely in place when parking? Reference 26.2.3.11
  26.3.22. Are all tractors with engines exceeding 20 horsepower fitted with ROPS? Reference
  26.2.6
  26.3.23. Are all ROPS-equipped tractors fitted with seatbelts? Reference 26.2.6
  26.3.24. Have all tractors and attachments been subjected to a noise hazard survey and those
  whose noise level exceeds 85 dBA placarded with noise hazard warning? Reference 26.2.7
  26.3.25. Are approved ―Slow Moving Vehicle‖ emblems and flashing amber light units
  installed on agricultural tractors used at night in high traffic areas? Reference 26.2.8
  26.3.26. Are all power takeoff shafts shielded? Reference 26.2.9.1
  26.3.27. Are guards capable of withstanding 250 pounds of downward or inward force?
  Reference 26.2.9.2
  26.3.28. Are guards free of burrs and sharp edges or projections and securely fastened to the
  unit? Reference 26.2.9.3
  26.3.29. Are all guards that were removed for servicing and maintenance reinstalled prior to
  placing units in use? Reference 26.2.9.4
  26.3.30. Are batteries, fuel tanks, oil reservoirs, and coolant systems constructed and located
  or sealed to assure that spillage will not occur in the event of an upset? Reference 26.2.10
  26.3.31. For flight line operations, does the operator ensure a ―Slow Moving Vehicle‖
  placard is affixed to the rear of the tractor, have a radio and keep in contact with the tower at
  all times? Reference 26.2.11
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       509



                                          Chapter 27

                          WELDING, CUTTING AND BRAZING

27.1. Hazards and Human Factors.
   27.1.1. Welding, cutting and brazing operations present hazardous situations which, if the
   proper precautions are not taken, can lead to serious injuries and/or death. Many workers
   have been injured because they failed to use proper personal protective equipment (PPE),
   used faulty equipment or from personnel error. The use of protective equipment is the least
   preferred method of controlling hazards and should not be relied on alone to provide
   protection against hazards. Protective equipment should be used in conjunction with guards,
   engineering controls and sound manufacturing practices. Refer to Chapter 3 for additional
   guidance on hazards and controls. Many Air Force welding, cutting and brazing mishaps are
   caused by:
      27.1.1.1. Inadequately trained personnel.
      27.1.1.2. Poor housekeeping practices.
      27.1.1.3. Poor shop layout.
      27.1.1.4. Inadequate lighting and ventilation.
      27.1.1.5. Improper storage and movement of compressed gas cylinders.
      27.1.1.6. Exposure of oxygen cylinders and fittings to oil or grease creating a fire or
      explosive hazard.
      27.1.1.7. Pointing welding or cutting torches at a concrete surface causing spattering or
      flying fragments of concrete.
      27.1.1.8. Electric shock when motors, generators and other electric welding equipment
      are not grounded.
      27.1.1.9. Inhalation of toxic fumes or vapors from welding metals or alloys.
   27.1.2. Numerous hazardous chemicals and metals are used in fluxes, paints, coatings and
   fillers. Toxic fumes or gases are released into the atmosphere during welding, cutting and
   brazing operations. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) provide information about the
   hazards associated with these products. All filler metals and fusible granular materials carry
   the following caution: CAUTION - WELDING MAY PRODUCE FUMES AND GASES
   HAZARDOUS TO HEALTH. AVOID BREATHING THESE FUMES AND GASES. USE
   ADEQUATE VENTILATION.
   27.1.3. Brazing and welding filler metals containing cadmium carry the following warning:
   WARNING - CONTAINS CADMIUM - POISONOUS FUMES MAY BE FORMED ON
   HEATING.
   27.1.4. Brazing and gas welding fluxes containing fluorine compounds carry the following
   precautionary wording on tags, boxes or other containers: CAUTION CONTAINS
   FLUORIDES. This flux, when heated, gives off fumes that may irritate eyes, nose and throat.
 510                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   27.1.5. Cleaning and other operations involving chlorinated hydrocarbons may generate
   toxic vapors or mists. Refer to paragraph 27.18.6 for additional guidance.
   27.1.6. Fires, explosions and injuries can occur from welding operations that are:
       27.1.6.1. In the proximity of combustible solids, liquids or dusts.
       27.1.6.2. In the presence of possible explosive mixtures of flammable gases and air.
       27.1.6.3. In the presence of an oxygen-enriched atmosphere, where hot work is
       performed.
       27.1.6.4. In close proximity of explosive hydrogen gas, which is formed when sulfuric
       acid comes in contact with mild steel.
27.2. Acquisition.
   27.2.1. Only American Welding Society approved apparatus such as torches, regulators,
   pressure reducing valves, acetylene generators, machines, manifolds, cables and hoses, etc.,
   shall be used. In locations where the acquisition of such apparatus is not feasible, contact the
   installation Ground Safety office or CE for guidance.
   27.2.2. Compressed gases may be purchased in either government-owned or supplier-owned
   cylinders. In either case, the purchase agreement shall specifically indicate that the
   compressed gas cylinders meet the marking requirements of 29 CFR 1910.253, Oxygen Fuel-
   Gas Welding and Cutting. In addition, they shall be inspected and shall have a safety relief
   device installed per the requirements in 29 CFR 1910.101, Compressed Gases (General
   Requirements). Government-owned cylinders which are not in compliance with the above
   requirements shall not be used and shall be removed from service. In locations where the
   adherence of OSHA requirements is not feasible, contact the installation Ground Safety
   office or CE for guidance.
   27.2.3. Only protective clothing and equipment approved by BE and installation Ground
   Safety office shall be used. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for
   additional guidance.
   27.2.4. Contractor activities involving welding, cutting and brazing shall meet requirements
   of 29 CFR 1910.252, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing - General Requirements, which may
   also be used as a technical reference. The contracting officer shall determine the necessity for
   specific references to OSHA standards, Air Force fire, safety and health standards, and other
   guidance as necessary in the contract. In locations where the adherence of OSHA
   requirements is not feasible, contact the installation Ground Safety office or CE for guidance.
27.3. Operating Precautions. The information listed below provides minimum guidance on
operating precautions and procedures. It shall be used in conjunction with 29 CFR 1910.252 on
all matters involving US Air Force welding operations. Information in 29 CFR 1910.252 may be
obtained by contacting your installation Ground Safety office or visiting the OSHA website:
http://www.osha.gov. Additional information is also available in NFPA 51B, Standard For Fire
Prevention During Welding, Cutting and Other Hot Work.
   27.3.1. Acetylene is extremely flammable and, when mixed with air, is highly explosive.
   Use and store acetylene cylinders in an upright position. If cylinders have been lying in a
   horizontal position, they must stand upright for a minimum of two (2) hours prior to use.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         511



  Never use acetylene at a pressure in excess of 15 pounds per square inch, gauge (psig);
  higher pressure may cause the cylinder or equipment to explode.
  27.3.2. Follow manufacturer's instructions with respect to the sequence of operations in
  lighting, adjusting and extinguishing torch flames. Purge hoses in open spaces and away
  from ignition sources. Light the torch with a friction lighter or stationary pilot flame, keeping
  a safe distance between the torch and the welder's hands. Point the torch away from persons
  or combustible materials when lighting. Do not attempt to light a torch from hot metal.
  27.3.3. When not in use for extended periods, i.e., 30 minutes or more, or when unattended
  (no one in the vicinity for observation), shut off fuel gas and oxygen supply at the tank.
  27.3.4. Do not open an acetylene valve more than one and one half turns of the spindle and
  preferably no more than three-fourths of a turn.
  27.3.5. Always open the cylinder valve slowly. Do not remove the wrench or handle used to
  open the cylinder from the stem of the valve while the cylinder is in use.
  27.3.6. If cylinders are manifold or coupled, ensure at least one wrench is always available
  for immediate use.
  27.3.7. Provide ventilation in shops or rooms where work is to be performed, but avoid
  strong drafts directed at the welding operation. Do not use oxygen to provide ventilation; this
  action shall accelerate combustion. Contact BE on proper ventilation requirements.
  27.3.8. Never attempt to preheat or weld jacketed vessels, tanks, containers or covered parts
  until precautions have been taken to adequately vent/inert the space. Do not weld or cut a
  container or piping system containing hydrogen gas, flammable or combustible liquids,
  vapors or other flammable or combustible materials without first inerting the container or
  system. Take similar precautions for new containers since preservatives or other
  combustibles may be present. When applicable, ensure that the appropriate technical orders
  are followed. Refer to paragraph 27.11 for additional guidance.
  27.3.9. Do not place work to be welded or heated on a concrete floor. Concrete, when
  heated, may spall and produce projectiles, exposing the welder to injury from flying hot
  particles.
  27.3.10. Provide appropriate fall protection for welders and helpers when on elevated
  surfaces. Keep welding areas neat, clean and free from tripping hazards. Provide protection
  for personnel on the ground or rope off area directly below the operation. Refer to Chapter
  13, Fall Protection, Chapter 16, Mobile Elevating Work Platforms, Chapter 17,
  Scaffolding, and 29 CFR 1910.28, Safety Requirements for Scaffolding, for additional
  guidance.
  27.3.11. Welding, cutting and brazing operations may produce a toxic or unhealthy
  atmosphere. Refer to AFI 90-821, Hazardous Communication, and BE guidance for
  ventilation requirements associated with welding operations.
  27.3.12. Do not perform cutting and welding operations:
     27.3.12.1. In indoor areas not approved by installation Fire Emergency Services (FES)
     Flight, Ground Safety office and BE. This shall ensure fire, safety and health protection
 512                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       considerations shall be included in the selection of indoor welding, cutting and brazing
       operations.
       27.3.12.2. In buildings with installed sprinkler systems when the system is inoperable,
       unless other means of fire detection, reporting and extinguishing have been approved by
       the installation FES Flight.
       27.3.12.3. In explosive atmospheres or where explosive atmospheres may develop.
       27.3.12.4. Within 50 feet of flammable liquids, i.e., flashpoint below 100°F.
       27.3.12.5. When unable to comply with the above requirements (paragraphs 27.3.12.1
       thru 27.3.12.4), interim procedures must be established through the installation Ground
       Safety office, FES Flight and BE.
   27.3.13. An AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, (see Figure 27.1) is required whenever
   there is cutting, welding or brazing being accomplished outside of the designated shop area.
   The directions for filling out and signing the AF Form 592 are contained in Table 27.2. The
   hot work permit must be obtained from the installation FES Flight prior to starting welding
   operations. The requirements for usage of the AF Form 592 are outlined in paragraph27.2.
   Note: BE assistance and coordination may be required, i.e., BE survey report, PPE
   listing/recommendation, etc.
27.4. Welding Equipment Precautions.
   27.4.1. Protect welding torch hoses from damage caused by contact with hot metal, open
   flames, corrosive agents or sharp edges. Release pressure on hoses at the end of each
   workday, during lunch or break periods, when not in use for extended periods or when
   unattended (no one in the vicinity for observation). Visually inspect the entire length of
   welding hose once per shift and prior to use. This inspection is not required when equipment
   shall not be used during that shift.
   27.4.2. Prior to use, repair or replace hoses exhibiting leaks, cuts, burns, worn spots or other
   evidence of deterioration. When using acetylene, ensure replacement hoses or fittings are
   approved for use with acetylene equipment. When parallel lengths of oxygen and acetylene
   hoses are taped together for convenience and to prevent tangling, not more than 4 inches in
   each 12 inches shall be covered by tape. Use a soap and water solution to check all recently
   repaired or replaced hoses for leaks; do not use an open flame. Make sure hoses and hose
   connections are in serviceable condition. Hose connections shall be of the ferrule type that
   shall withstand, without leakage, twice the normal service pressure (but not less than 300
   psi). Use oil-free air or oil-free inert gas for the test. Welding hoses are color coded: oxygen
   hoses are green, fuel gases are red and inert-gases or air are black. Hose connections are
   usually marked STD-OXY for oxygen and STD-ACET for acetylene. The acetylene union
   nut has a groove cut around the center to indicate left-hand threads. Make-shift repairs to
   oxygen/acetylene hoses or connections are not authorized.
   27.4.3. Provide shielding to protect personnel from heat, sparks, slag, light and ultraviolet
   (UV) radiation.
   27.4.4. To prevent personnel from inadvertently touching hot items, post warning signs
   around equipment or item(s) that are left unattended during welding operations.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         513



   27.4.5. Wear appropriate PPE for the welding operation being performed. Welding in
   confined spaces, manholes or other restricted areas may require additional or special PPE.
   Refer to BE‘s OEH risk assessment for appropriate PPE, and paragraph 27.7 and Chapter
   23, Confined Spaces.
   27.4.6. In case of an emergency, ensure a means to quickly extract the welders is provided.
   Refer to Chapters 14 and 23, and AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, for additional
   guidance.
27.5. Facilities.
   27.5.1. Inside Areas. A specific area shall be designated and approved by the installation
   FES Flight and BE for welding and cutting operations. It shall be of fire resistant or
   noncombustible construction appropriate for its hazard classification, free of combustible and
   flammable materials, and segregated from adjacent areas. This area shall be exempt from
   requiring an AF Form 592 on a daily basis.
       27.5.1.1. Where possible, welding activities shall be isolated from adjacent activities.
       Workers and other personnel adjacent to the welding areas shall be protected from the
       radiant energy or spatter of welding and cutting arcs by the use of noncombustible and/or
       flameproof screens.
       27.5.1.2. Welding booth walls, screens and non-rigid heat and spark barriers used to
       isolate the welding activity shall be finished to limit reflectivity. Booths, screens, etc.,
       shall be arranged to ensure adequate ventilation. Asbestos-containing materials shall not
       be used as barriers.
       27.5.1.3. Where arc-welding is regularly performed adjacent to painted walls, the walls
       shall be painted with a finish having low reflectivity to UV radiation.
       27.5.1.4. Procedures shall be established to prevent personnel entering a welding area
       from inadvertently being exposed to welding hazards. These procedures shall include, as
       a minimum, warning signs posted at all personnel entryways of designated welding areas.
       These signs shall mandate the use of PPE before entering a welding environment.
       27.5.1.5. Combustible floors shall be kept wet and covered with damp sand or protected
       by fire resistant shields. Where floors have been wet down and damp sand applied, rigid
       control shall be exercised over the grounding of equipment and personnel shall be
       protected from possible shock. Caution shall be exercised against slips and falls on any
       wet surfaces.
       27.5.1.6. A fully charged and operable fire extinguisher, appropriate for the task, shall be
       kept at the work area at all times while welding operations are in progress. Consult with
       the installation FES Flight for additional guidance.
       27.5.1.7. Whenever there are cracks or other floor openings that cannot be closed or
       covered within 35 feet of the welding or cutting operation, precautions shall be taken to
       remove or otherwise protect combustible materials on the floor below that may be
       exposed to sparks. The same precautions shall be observed with regard to cracks or
       openings in walls, open doorways, and open or broken windows.
514                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      27.5.1.8. Where a fire protection system exists, the system shall be fully operational
      while welding or cutting work is being performed and the proper fire extinguishing
      equipment shall be readily available. If welding or cutting is to be conducted within three
      (3) feet of automatic sprinkler heads, noncombustible sheet material or damp cloth guards
      shall be used to temporarily shield the individual sprinkler heads. The type of shielding
      shall be specified on the AF Form 592 by the issuing authority. Personnel authorized to
      issue permits shall:
         27.5.1.8.1. Inspect the area before allowing any welding, cutting or brazing activities
         to begin.
         27.5.1.8.2. Ensure a copy of the signed AF Form 592 is readily available in the
         immediate area of the welding, cutting and brazing operations.
         27.5.1.8.3. Fire watcher procedures shall be implemented whenever welding
         activities are within 35 feet of combustible materials, regardless of protection
         provided. A qualified individual proficient in the operation of available fire
         extinguishing equipment and knowledgeable of fire reporting procedures shall
         observe welding or cutting activities. Their duty is to detect and prevent the spread of
         fire produced by welding or cutting activities. An additional fire watcher may be
         required to observe areas that are hidden from the view of a single fire watcher (other
         side of partitions, walls, ceilings, etc.).
         27.5.1.8.4. Provide a fire watch for a minimum of 30 minutes after completion of all
         welding, cutting and brazing work. Utilize heat sensing meters to scan for hot spots in
         the work. Do not leave the work area unattended during breaks in work during a work
         shift. Walk and scan all areas of application checking for hot spots, fumes or
         smoldering, especially at wall and curb areas, prior to departure at the end of each
         work shift. Ensure any and all suspect conditions are eliminated prior to leaving the
         site each work shift.
         27.5.1.8.5. When fire watchers are required, upon completion of their duties they
         shall sign Line 14 of the hot work permit and return it to the issuing authority. If work
         continues for more than one day, the area shall be inspected prior to each day‘s
         operation to ensure that no conditions have changed and requirements of the original
         permit are in effect. The permit shall be signed and dated daily in Block 12 at the
         completion of each day‘s work until completion of operations or as required by local
         policy. Only the tasks authorized by the original permit shall be accomplished.
         Additional tasks shall require a new permit to be issued.
         27.5.1.8.6. At the completion of the fire watch, the following areas shall be
         inspected:
             27.5.1.8.6.1. The work area and all areas within five (5) feet of the work area.
             27.5.1.8.6.2. If the work area is on a roof or floor above, the ceiling area and
             floor area on the level below the work area and void areas between the
             floors/roof.
             27.5.1.8.6.3. If the work area is in or above any vertical chase area, the chase area
             on the floor below, any chase areas in the void between the work area and the
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       515



            floor below, and the lowest level of the vertical chase.
  27.5.2. Outside Areas. When work cannot be moved, the area shall be made fire safe by
  removing combustibles or protecting combustibles from ignition sources.
     27.5.2.1. The welding operation shall be roped off or segregated by physical barrier
     whenever possible. Placards reading ―WELDING OPERATIONS IN PROGRESS‖ shall
     be prominently displayed for warning purposes. Protective screens, when possible, shall
     be placed around welding operations. When screens are not feasible, workers and other
     personnel adjacent to the welding areas shall be required to wear appropriate personal
     protective goggles.
     27.5.2.2. Authorization, including an AF Form 592, to perform welding, cutting or
     brazing shall be obtained from the installation FES Flight prior to the start of such
     operations. Refer to Figure 27.1 and Table 27.2 for additional information regarding AF
     Form 592. Coordination with BE may be required for welding, cutting or brazing
     operations involving a hazardous task, i.e., BE survey report, PPE
     listing/recommendation, etc. Note: Hazardous tasks performed in an inside area shall
     comply with paragraph 27.5.1.
     27.5.2.3. Fire watcher procedures shall be implemented per requirements in paragraphs
     27.5.1.8.3 through 27.5.1.8.5.
     27.5.2.4. The welding operation environment shall be free of flammable liquids and
     vapors. Combustible materials within a radius of 35 feet of the operation shall be
     protected from activity residue (flame, sparks, slag, etc.).
     27.5.2.5. Fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained, ready for use, while welding
     or cutting operations are being performed. Equipment may consist of pails of water,
     buckets of sand, a hose or portable extinguisher, depending upon the nature and quantity
     of the combustible material exposed. The welding permit issuing authority shall identify
     the required fire extinguishing equipment.
     27.5.2.6. MAJCOMs/installations having activities involved in numerous daily welding,
     cutting and brazing operations are permitted to have a certification process whereby
     qualified and/or certified welding personnel (other than FES Flight personnel) may issue
     welding permits. If work continues for more than one day, the area shall be inspected
     prior to each day‘s operation to ensure no conditions have changed and requirements of
     the original permit are in effect. The permit shall be signed and dated daily in Block 12 at
     the completion of each day‘s work until completion of the operations or as required by
     local policy. Only tasks authorized by the original permit shall be accomplished.
     Additional tasks shall require a new permit to be issued. The following procedures are
     applicable:
        27.5.2.6.1. Personnel certified by the installation FES Flight may authorize welding,
        cutting and brazing operations, using AF Form 592 for this purpose.
        27.5.2.6.2. The installation FES Flight shall instruct and qualify welding shop
        supervisors and other selected personnel. Upon completing the required training, the
 516                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


           installation FES Flight shall certify the individuals in writing. Upon certification,
           trained personnel shall be qualified to issue permits.
27.6. Installed Equipment.
   27.6.1. Oxygen-Fuel gas system equipment devices or attachments used for the prior mixing
   of air or oxygen with flammable gases must be approved for that purpose, except devices at
   the burner or in a standard torch.
   27.6.2. When acetylene cylinders are coupled, approved flash arresters shall be installed
   between each cylinder and the coupler block. For outdoor use only, and where the number of
   cylinders does not exceed three, one flash arrester installed between the coupler block and
   regulators is acceptable.
   27.6.3. Backflow protection shall be provided by an approved device that shall prevent
   oxygen from flowing into the fuel-gas system or fuel from flowing into the oxygen system.
   27.6.4. Flashback protection shall be provided by an approved device that shall prevent a
   flame from passing into the fuel-gas system.
   27.6.5. Back-pressure protection shall be provided by an approved pressure relief device, set
   at a pressure not greater than the pressure rating of the backflow or flashback devices,
   whichever is lower.
   27.6.6. These three functions of protective equipment (backflow, flashback and pressure
   relief devices) may be separate devices or combined into one device.
   27.6.7. Clearly marked master shutoff valves shall be provided for installed systems at
   points where they shall be readily accessible. If a wrench is required to operate the master
   shutoff valves, then at least one wrench for this specific purpose shall always be readily
   available in the immediate area of the master shutoff valves.
27.7. Clothing and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Key portions of 29 CFR 1910.252
covering protective equipment are included here. Personnel engaged in or exposed to welding,
cutting or brazing activities shall be provided and use the proper PPE. The appropriate protective
clothing required for specific welding operations shall vary with the size, nature and location of
the work to be performed. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.132, Personal Protective Equipment, AFOSH
Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, and Chapter 14, for additional guidance.
   27.7.1. Clothing shall provide sufficient coverage and be made of suitable materials to
   prevent skin burns caused by sparks, spatter, ultra violet radiation or electrical shock. Front
   pockets and upturned sleeves or cuffs shall be prohibited. Sleeves and collars shall be kept
   buttoned to prevent hot metal slag and sparks from contacting the skin.
   27.7.2. All welders and cutters shall wear protective flame-resistant gloves. All gloves shall
   be in good repair, dry and capable of providing protection from electric shock by welding
   equipment. Insulated linings shall be used to protect areas exposed to high radiant energy.
   27.7.3. Durable flame-resistant aprons made of leather or suitable materials shall be used to
   protect the front of the body when additional protection against sparks and radiant energy is
   needed.
   27.7.4. For heavy work, flame-resistant leggings or other equivalent means shall be used to
   provide additional protection for the legs.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        517



  27.7.5. Cape sleeves or shoulder covers with bibs made of leather or other flame-resistant
  materials shall be worn during overhead welding, cutting or other operations, when
  necessary.
  27.7.6. Caps made from flame resistant material shall be worn under helmets, when
  necessary, to prevent head burns.
  27.7.7. Properly fitted flame-resistant plugs in the ear canals, or equivalent protection, shall
  be used where hazardous noise levels exist. Consult installation BE for additional guidance.
  27.7.8. When controls such as mechanical or natural ventilation fail to reduce air
  contaminants to allowable levels or when the implementation of such controls are not
  feasible, respiratory protective equipment shall be used to protect personnel from hazardous
  concentrations of airborne contaminants. Only approved respirator equipment shall be used.
  Consult BE and AFOSH Standard 48-137 for additional guidance.
  27.7.9. Eye Protection Requirements.
     27.7.9.1. All welding helmets must meet 29 CFR 1910.252 requirements.
     27.7.9.2. Eye and face protective equipment shall be inspected for serviceability prior to
     each use. For sanitary purposes, eye and face protectors shall not be shared by other
     employees. Helmets shall be used during all arc-welding or arc-cutting operations,
     excluding submerged arc-welding. Where the work permits, submerged arc-welders must
     be enclosed in an individual booth coated on the inside with a non-reflective material.
     When two or more welders are exposed to the hazards of each other's welding operation,
     goggles shall be worn under the welder‘s helmets or use of noncombustible or flameproof
     screens or shields to provide protection from harmful rays and flying debris. Helpers or
     attendants shall be provided with the proper PPE, to include eye protection.
     27.7.9.3. Goggles or other suitable eye protection shall be used during all gas welding or
     oxygen cutting operations.
     27.7.9.4. All operators and attendants of resistance welding, resistance brazing
     equipment or while chipping slag shall use transparent face shields or goggles, depending
     on the particular job, to protect their faces or eyes as required.
     27.7.9.5. Eye protection in the form of suitable tinted goggles or spectacles shall be
     provided for torch brazing operations or soldering operations. Spectacles shall be
     equipped with side shields.
  27.7.10. Specifications for Protectors.
     27.7.10.1. Helmets and goggles shall be made of a material which is an insulator for heat
     and electricity. Helmets, face shields and goggles shall not be readily flammable and
     shall be capable of withstanding sterilization.
     27.7.10.2. Helmets shall be arranged to protect the face, neck and ears from direct
     radiant energy from the arc.
     27.7.10.3. Helmets shall be provided with filter plates and cover plates designed for easy
     removal.
 518                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       27.7.10.4. All parts shall be constructed of a material which shall not readily corrode or
       discolor the skin.
       27.7.10.5. Goggles shall be ventilated to prevent fogging of the lenses as much as
       practicable.
       27.7.10.6. Cover lenses or plates shall be provided to protect each helmet or goggle filter
       lens or plate.
       27.7.10.7. All glass for lenses shall be tempered and substantially free from striae, air
       bubbles, waves and other flaws. Except when a lens is ground to provide proper optical
       correction for defective vision, the front and rear surfaces of lenses and windows shall be
       smooth and parallel.
       27.7.10.8. Lenses shall bear some permanent distinctive markings by which the source
       and shade may be readily identified.
       27.7.10.9. All filter lenses and plates shall meet the test for transmission of radiant
       energy prescribed in ANSI Z87.1, Occupational and Educational Eye and Face
       Protection Devices.
       27.7.10.10. Hand-held screens for shielding the face and eyes shall not be used, since
       they may be inadvertently held in the wrong position, thus not providing the proper
       protection. Refer to National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) for
       additional guidance.
27.8. Training and Qualification. Trainees may perform welding only under the direct
supervision of an instructor. Each person performing welding operations shall be qualified to
perform these operations when they have satisfactorily demonstrated their skill or proficiency to
their supervisor. Welders performing work on aircraft, aircraft components, missile or missile
components shall be certified IAW TO 00-25-252, Intermediate Maintenance and Depot Level
Instructions Aeronautical Equipment Welding.
   27.8.1. Prior to commencing a welding operation outside the welding shop, supervisors shall
   brief the welder on safety, health, weather and fire protection concerns or issues applicable to
   the specific job.
   27.8.2. Commanders shall ensure that supervisors and employees who handle, use or are
   potentially exposed to hazardous materials in the course of official Air Force duties are
   provided information and training on the AFHCP and specific hazards in the workplace.
   Refer to AFI 90-821 for additional guidance.
   27.8.3. If a welding operator requires specialized safety, health or fire protection guidance
   not addressed in this standard or in appropriate technical data, the supervisor shall instruct
   the welder prior to commencement of the job. Assistance may be requested from the
   installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE.
27.9. Gas Leaks.
   27.9.1. Check gas line connections for tightness after assembly and before lighting the torch.
   Use soapy water or the equivalent, not a flame.
   27.9.2. If a leak is found around the valve stem when the valve is opened on a fuel-gas
   cylinder, the valve shall be closed and the gland nut tightened. If this does not stop the leak,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         519



   discontinue the use of the cylinder, remove it to the outdoors, and mark it with a DD Form
   1577-2, Unserviceable (Reparable) Tag. Place the cylinder in an upright manner well away
   from an ignition source and secure it to prevent falling. In the immediate area within a 50
   foot radius of the leaking cylinder, place a sign warning personnel not to approach the
   leaking gas cylinder with any ignition source, such as a lighted cigarette or lighter. In
   addition, place similar signs in locations which shall notify personnel of the danger before
   entering into the area. These signs are intended to prevent personnel from entering into a
   danger zone while attempting to read the sign on the cylinder. Refer to Chapter 29, Mishap
   Prevention Signs and Tags, for danger signs specifications. Immediately notify the
   installation FES Flight of any fuel gas leaks.
   27.9.3. If the fuel gas should leak from the cylinder valve and cannot be shut off with the
   valve seat, follow the instructions in paragraph 27.9.2.
   27.9.4. If a leak should develop at the fusible plug or other safety device on the fuel-gas
   cylinder, follow the instructions in paragraph27.9.2. In addition, slightly open the cylinder
   valve to allow the fuel gas to escape slowly and immediately notify the installation FES
   Flight. Note: Emergency cylinder repair kits are available and may be used to contain the
   leak until it can be moved outside. Signs warning personnel not to approach the leaking gas
   cylinder with any ignition source, such as a lit cigarette or lighters, shall be placed near the
   leaking cylinder.
27.10. Welding Safety.
   27.10.1. The welder shall never permit the live metal parts of an electrode holder to touch
   their bare skin.
   27.10.2. Welding gloves shall be dry.
   27.10.3. Electrode holders shall not be cooled by immersion in water.
   27.10.4. Water-cooled holders for gas tungsten-arc, gas metal-arc, and carbon arc-welding
   shall not be used if there is a water leak or condensation which would adversely affect the
   safety of the operator.
   27.10.5. The welding machines supplying power to the arc shall always be electrically
   disconnected when changing electrodes in gas tungsten-arc electrode holders.
      27.10.5.1. A mechanical switching device (disconnecting or isolating switch) used for
      changing the connections in a circuit or for isolating a circuit and/or equipment from a
      source of power, serves the same purpose as removing a plug from an outlet.
      27.10.5.2. Never change electrodes with bare hands or wet gloves or when standing on
      wet floors or other grounded surfaces.
   27.10.6. Filter Lenses for Protection Against Radiant Energy. Table 27.1 is a guide for the
   selection of the proper shade numbers. These recommendations may be varied to suit the
   individual‘s needs. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.252 and 29 CFR 1910.133, Eye and Face
   Protection, for additional guidance.
   27.10.7. Inert Gas Welding and Brazing. When inert gas welding or brazing is performed in
   large chambers or furnaces, ensure workers are aware of and trained on dangers of inert gas
520                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  asphyxiation. Supervisors shall ensure chambers are completely ventilated and cooled prior
  to entry. Also, ensure mechanical ventilation or approved positive pressure air supplied
  respiratory protection is provided. Personnel shall comply with confined space requirements
  outlined in Chapter 23.
  27.10.8. Electron Beam Welding. Refer to manufacturer's instructions and applicable TOs.
  Centers, bases or installations performing electron beam welding shall develop operating
  instructions covering the specific equipment used.
  27.10.9. Plasma Arc-Cutting. Plasma arc-cutting operations are hazardous because of the
  high heat, brilliant light and fumes given off. Molten metal splatter and noise are also
  potential hazards. Engineering controls to mitigate these hazards should be considered during
  equipment installation. Because of the hazards involved, centers, bases and installations shall
  at a minimum:
      27.10.9.1. Provide shielding and non-reflective surfaces (walls, floors, ceilings, etc.).
      27.10.9.2. Ensure adequate ventilation is provided or that positive pressure air supplied
      respiratory equipment is used.
      27.10.9.3. Install equipment of this type in an isolated area to prevent exposing workers
      of other operations.
  27.10.10. Air-Carbon-Arc-Cutting. In addition to normal protective equipment required for
  welding and cutting, air-carbon-arc-cutting requires shielding so molten slag shall not be
  blown by compressed air onto personnel or combustibles.
  27.10.11. Induction Welding and/or Brazing. Because of potential burns, induction welders
  shall pre-place filler materials within induction coils and shall not attempt to adjust the
  placement while the welding and/or brazing equipment is activated. Inspect induction coil
  insulation prior to use to ensure serviceability. Replace or repair damaged or deteriorated
  insulation.
  27.10.12. Magnesium-Thorium Welding, Cutting and Grinding. Coordinate proposed
  welding, cutting or grinding operations on magnesium-thorium and other potentially
  radioactive materials in advance with the installation Radiation Safety Officer (usually the
  BE or assigned to BE). All personnel must comply with the Air Force requirements for
  handling and processing radioactive materials. Refer to AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive
  Materials In The US Air Force, for additional guidance.
  27.10.13. Electric Arc-Welding. Arc-welding is the fusion process based on the principle of
  generating heat with an electric arc jumping an air gap to complete an electrical circuit.
  When an electrode is touched to metal, the electrical circuit is completed and the current
  flows. Tremendous heat is concentrated at the point of contact. Hazards involved in this
  process are electrical shock-particularly in hot weather when the welder is perspiring, burns
  to the skin and eyes, and inadequate ventilation.
      27.10.13.1. Safety Precautions. Many mishaps are caused by defective equipment,
      deliberate violation of safety precautions and/or neglect of safety rules or practices.
      Consequently, prior to use, welders need to inspect welding equipment to ensure the
      electrode connections and insulation on holders and cables are in good condition. They
      must keep hands and body parts insulated from the work, metal electrode and insulation
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      521



     on holders and avoid standing on wet floors or coming in contact with grounded surfaces.
     They must never perform welding operations outside the rated capacity of the welding
     cables. When welding must be performed in the open, persons working nearby shall wear
     goggles or be warned against the hazard of exposing themselves to, or looking directly at,
     the arc.
     27.10.13.2. Inspection of Equipment. The welder shall inspect the cables periodically for
     looseness at the connections, defects due to wear or other damage. Defective or loose
     cables are a shock and fire hazard. Defective electrode holders shall be replaced and
     connections to the holder tightened prior to use.
  27.10.14. Oxyacetylene Welding. This is one of the most common and widely used welding
  processes available. It can be used for fusion welding, brazing, soldering, cutting and hard
  surfacing. Hazards include burns to the skin and eyes, gas or oxygen leaks, flashbacks, cut
  hose whipping, improper handling and storage of cylinders and the potential for a cylinder to
  become a missile if it is punctured or if the valve should break off. Both oxygen and
  acetylene cylinders are stored according to instructions in TO 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders
  (Storage Type) Use, Handling, and Maintenance.
  27.10.15. Gas-Shielded Welding. Gas-shielded welding is a fusion-welding process that uses
  the heat produced by an electric arc between a metal electrode and the work. An inert gas
  (helium or argon) is used to shield the electrode. The shielding gas flowing from the orifices
  in the torch head forms a protective blanket over the weld area. This prevents the air from
  coming in contact with the molten metal and contaminating the weld.
     27.10.15.1. Tungsten-Inert Gas Welding (TIG). TIG welding is a type of gas-shielded
     welding especially adapted for light gage metal because of its good concentration of heat,
     precise heat control and the ability to weld with or without filler metals. It is generally
     used with such metals as aluminum, magnesium and titanium. The principle hazards are
     the same as electric arc-welding (possible shock, ventilation and burns), except TIG
     welding takes place with little or no spatter, sparking or fumes.
     27.10.15.2. Metal-Inert Gas Welding (MIG). MIG welding is a type of gas-shielded
     welding similar to TIG, except it uses a wire fed electrode and is used for heavier gage
     metals. MIG welding has the same hazards as TIG welding, except it does create sparks,
     spattering and can easily cause UV radiation burns to exposed skin.
  27.10.16. Aircraft Welding.
     27.10.16.1. Gas shielded tungsten arc-welding is the approved method for welding on
     aircraft. Welding on aircraft should be performed outside of hangars, if possible. An AF
     Form 592 shall be issued prior to all aircraft welding operations IAW Figure 27.1 and
     Table 27.2 Welding shall only be performed on aircraft system components specified in
     the appropriate aircraft technical data. Specific hazards associated with the task and
     emergency procedures shall be listed in Block 10 of the welding permit. If more space is
     required to list all precautions, a welding fire safety checklist shall be prepared and
     attached to the form. The welding supervisor shall ensure identified precautions and/or
     checklist items are followed. The welding supervisor shall ensure the senior flight line
522                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      supervisor (line chief and/or production supervisor) is cognizant of the restrictions in
      paragraphs 27.10.16.2 through 27.10.16.11 below.
      27.10.16.2. Ensure the senior flight line supervisor (production supervisor) is thoroughly
      briefed on the planned welding operation. This supervisor is responsible for informing
      other senior flight line supervisors if aircraft from different units are on the ramp.
      27.10.16.3. Do not weld on an aircraft while work is in progress on any system or
      component that contains or did contain fuel or other flammable or combustible liquids.
      27.10.16.4. Prior to the start of welding operations, fuel tank, engine fuel vents and any
      fuel tank opening shall be closed/plugged on all aircraft within 50 feet from the point of
      any welding. All fuel lines, valves, manifolds and other fuel components on the aircraft
      where welding is being performed shall be in place, secured or capped prior to the start of
      and during such welding operations.
      27.10.16.5. Do not perform any other work within a 25 foot radius of any gas-shielded
      arc-welding operation.
      27.10.16.6. Do not weld on an aircraft while work is in progress on the fuel system of
      any other aircraft within 50 feet from the point of welding.
      27.10.16.7. Whenever welding is being performed in the vicinity of flammable vapors, a
      qualified person shall conduct an atmosphere analysis with a combustible gas analyzer to
      assure that flammable vapors do not reach 20 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL).
      Such analysis shall be conducted prior to the start of welding and at least every 15
      minutes during the welding operation. For confined spaces the LEL is lowered to 10
      percent. Additionally, when welding in a hangar, check floor drains in the same manner.
      Refer to NFPA 410, Chapter 6, Aircraft Welding Operations, and 29 CFR 1910.146,
      Permit-Required Confined Space, for additional guidance. NFPA standards are normally
      available for review at the installation Ground Safety office or FES Flight.
      27.10.16.8. Rope off or segregate the welding operation by physical barriers.
      Prominently display warning signs reading: ―WELDING OPERATIONS IN PROGRESS.‖
      Place screens, when possible, around welding operations.
      27.10.16.9. Keep electrical welding equipment components (other than flexible lead
      cables) at least 18 inches above the floor. Position all ground leads or cables as close as
      possible to the area being welded. The ground leads shall be as close to the weld area as
      possible, and clamps used on such ground leads shall be of the ―C‖ clamp type.
      27.10.16.10. Assign a trained fire guard to monitor the welding operation and halt the
      welding operation if a hazardous condition develops. Provide the fire guard a 20 BC
      (minimum) rated fire extinguisher in the immediate area and a back-up wheeled
      extinguisher of 80 BC rating. Ensure the fire watch is maintained for at least 30 minutes
      after completion of the welding operation to detect and extinguish smoldering fires.
      Operations on combustible metals shall include the availability of a MET-X type fire
      extinguisher. Refer to TO 00-25-252 for additional guidance.
      27.10.16.11. Aircraft welding operations performed in hangars shall conform to Chapter
      6 of this standard and NFPA Standard 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance..
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        523



   27.10.17. Welding and Cutting Tanks, Cylinders or Containers. The following procedures
   apply only to tanks too small to be entered (compressed gas cylinders and pipelines are
   excluded). Ensure welding and cutting operations on containers that have held flammable
   liquids or gases are under the direct supervision of a trained and knowledgeable supervisor.
      27.10.17.1. Inspection. All containers should be considered unsafe for welding or cutting
      unless they have been rendered safe or declared safe by a qualified person. When welding
      or cutting containers, possibilities exist for explosions, fires and the release of toxic
      vapors or fumes. Before any tank, cylinder or other container is cut, welded or other hot
      work is performed, ensure the container is purged or the item is inert. Also, ensure there
      are no substances such as grease, tars or acids present that might produce explosive or
      toxic vapors when heated. Disconnect or blank any pipe lines or connections to the
      drums, cylinders, tanks or other containers. Prior to work within, on or near the tank or
      container, test for flammable vapors with the appropriate combustible gas indicator (1)
      before commencing alterations; (2) immediately before and after starting any welding,
      cutting or heating operations; and (3) frequently during the course of the operation. All
      work shall be stopped immediately if the concentration of flammable vapors exceeds 10
      percent of the lower flammable limit. The source of vapors shall be located and removed.
      Warning: New containers must also be inert or purged; they may contain a flammable
      preservative which could form explosive vapors when heated.
27.11. Purging and Inert.
   27.11.1. Purging with Steam. Steam may be introduced into the tank or container through a
   pipe inserted through an opening and bonded to the container, or by connecting a steam hose
   directly to one of the vessel nozzles. The rate of supply of steam should be sufficient to
   exceed the rate of condensation so the whole tank or container is heated close to the boiling
   point of water. The vessel must be steamed long enough to vaporize the residues from all
   portions of the walls (shell and heads). When testing the atmosphere in the vessel with a
   combustible gas indicator, the sample should be drawn through a drying tube filled with
   calcium chloride or other drying agent to ensure that water vapor does not enter the
   instrument. If a drying agent is not available, the container must be allowed to cool off until
   excess water vapor has condensed. Hazards inherent with steam operations require the use of
   PPE. Supervisors must ensure PPE is serviceable and enforce its wear. Refer to NFPA 326,
   Safeguarding of Tanks and Containers for Entry, Cleaning, or Repair, for additional
   guidance. Warning: Steam cleaning, chemical cleaning and high pressure water blasting can
   generate static electric charges.
   27.11.2. Purging with Water. Where the liquid or gas previously contained is known to be
   readily displaced or easily soluble in water, it can be removed by completely filling the
   container with water and then draining, repeating this operation several times until clean.
   When hot work is performed on containers filled with water, extreme care shall be used to
   eliminate any possible vapor accumulation by the proper venting or positioning of the
   container during the filling operation. Consult the installation Environmental Management
   office for disposal guidelines of purged materials.
   27.11.3. Purging with Air. Hazardous vapors may be displaced from inside containers by
   purging with air. A safe atmosphere shall be maintained by continuous ventilation. Every
 524                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   precaution shall be taken to ensure all ignition sources have been removed from the vicinity
   since the concentration of vapor in the tank or container might reach the flammable range
   before a safe atmosphere is obtained. The air mover shall be electrically bonded to the tank
   or container being cleaned.
   27.11.4. Inert With Gas. Inert gas may be used to displace flammable gas from the container.
   Adequate ventilation shall be maintained during the operation to ensure gas concentrations
   remain below hazardous levels. Supervisors of this operation shall be thoroughly familiar
   with the limitations and characteristics of the inert gas being used. Examples of inert gases
   are carbon dioxide, nitrogen and argon.
   27.11.5. Venting. All hollow spaces, cavities or containers shall be vented to permit the
   escape of air or gases before preheating, cutting or welding.
   27.11.6. Atmospheric Monitoring. In all cases, during welding or cutting operations,
   continuous monitoring of the vessel's atmosphere with a properly calibrated combustible gas
   indicator is mandatory.
27.12. Vehicle Maintenance Shops. Welding or cutting in vehicle maintenance activities shall
only be conducted in areas approved by the installation FES Flight. Maintenance shop
supervision shall evaluate each welding or cutting task to determine if batteries or fuel tanks
require removal and/or need to be made inert.
27.13. Portable Gas Welding Units. Ensure portable gas welding, cutting and brazing
equipment is a type designed for the use intended.
   27.13.1. Cylinders of compressed gas must have pressure reducing regulators installed.
   27.13.2. Cylinders in use or transport must be stored in an upright position and be secured to
   prevent them from falling.
   27.13.3. Gaseous systems and containers shall be color coded. Refer to TO 42B5-1-2 for
   additional guidance.
   27.13.4. Oxygen cylinders and fittings shall be kept free of grease and oil at all times.
   27.13.5. Cylinders shall be kept away from external sources of heat at all times.
   27.13.6. Cylinders shall not be dropped or handled roughly. Cylinders or welding sets in
   excess of 40 pounds total weight shall be transported to and from work sites by cart or
   motorized vehicle. When cylinders or welding sets are moved by crane or derrick, suitable
   cradles, boats or platforms shall be used. Slings or electric magnets shall not be used to move
   cylinders or welding sets.
   27.13.7. Flashback protection shall be provided by an approved device that shall prevent a
   flame from passing into the fuel-gas system.
   27.13.8. Backflow protection shall be provided by an approved device that shall prevent
   oxygen from flowing into the fuel-gas system or fuel from flowing into the oxygen system.
   27.13.9. The flashback and backflow protection may be combined in one device or may be
   provided by separate devices. If one device is used, such as an approved mixing handle,
   additional backflow devices installed on the oxygen and fuel hoses near the regulator may be
   advisable should the mixing handle malfunction.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      525



   27.13.10. An acetylene valve shall not be opened more than one and one-half turns of the
   spindle and preferably no more than three-fourths of a turn.
   27.13.11. The cylinder valve shall always be opened slowly. The wrench used to open the
   cylinder shall be left in position on the stem of the valve while the cylinder is in use.
   27.13.12. If cylinders are manifold or coupled, at least one wrench shall always be available
   for immediate use.
27.14. Portable Electric Welding Units.
   27.14.1. Circuits shall be de-energized before testing, checking or transporting.
   27.14.2. Motor-generator sets and other electrical welding equipment shall be grounded
   prior to use.
   27.14.3. Rotary and polarity switches shall not be operated while the equipment is under an
   electrical load.
   27.14.4. Arc-welding equipment shall be inspected periodically and prior to use following
   relocation. Power cables and electrode holders shall be inspected prior to every use.
   27.14.5. These units shall be repaired by qualified electricians only.
27.15. Arc-Welding.
   27.15.1. Arc-welding equipment shall conform to the design and installation criteria of 29
   CFR 1910.254, Arc-Welding and Cutting. The frame or case of the welding machine, except
   engine driven machines, shall be grounded IAW 29 CFR 1910, Subpart S, Electrical.
   27.15.2. Before starting operations.
      27.15.2.1. All connections to the arc-welding machine shall be checked and the work
      lead shall be firmly attached to the work.
      27.15.2.2. Contact surfaces of magnetic work clamps shall be free of metal spatter
      particles.
      27.15.2.3. Coiled welding cable shall be spread out before use to avoid overheating and
      damage to insulation.
      27.15.2.4. Work and electrode lead cables shall be inspected for damage and wear before
      use. Cables with damaged insulation or exposed conductors shall be repaired or replaced.
      27.15.2.5. Electrode cables shall be joined and installed IAW applicable manufacturer‘s
      instructions or technical data.
   27.15.3. Grounding of the welding machine frame shall be checked. Special attention shall
   be given to the ground connections of portable machines.
   27.15.4. When not in use, electrode holders shall be placed where they cannot make
   electrical contact with persons, conducting objects, fuel or compressed gas cylinders.
   27.15.5. Cables with splices within 10 feet of the electrode holder shall not be used. The
   welder shall not coil or loop welding electrode cables around parts of their body.
 526                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   27.15.6. Welders shall not place welding cable and other equipment where it shall obstruct
   passageways, ladders and stairways.
   27.15.7. Machines which have become wet shall be thoroughly dried and tested before being
   used.
   27.15.8. When welders are working close to each other, where they may touch the exposed
   parts of more than one electrode holder simultaneously, the machines shall be connected to
   minimize shock hazard as follows:
       27.15.8.1. All direct current (DC) machines shall be connected with the same polarity.
       27.15.8.2. All alternating current (AC) machines shall be connected to the same phase of
       the supply circuit and with the same instantaneous polarity.
27.16. Resistance Welding.
   27.16.1. Thermal Protection. Every pair of ignition tubes used in resistance welding
   equipment shall be equipped with a thermal protection switch. When used in a series-
   connected water line, a single switch shall be adequate if related to the downstream tube.
   27.16.2. Control Safeguards. Controls, such as push buttons, foot switches, retraction and
   dual-schedule switches on portable guns, etc., shall be arranged or guarded to prevent
   inadvertent activation.
   27.16.3. Guarding Welding Machines. Multi-gun welding machines shall be effectively
   guarded at the point of operation. Devices such as electronic eyes, latches, blocks, barriers or
   two-handed controls shall be installed. All chains, gears, operating bus linkages and belts
   shall be protected by adequate guards.
   27.16.4. Electrical Hazards. All external weld-initiating control circuits shall operate on low
   voltage, not more than 120 volts for stationary equipment and not more than 36 volts for
   portable equipment. All electrical equipment shall be suitably interlocked and insulated to
   prevent access by unauthorized persons to live portions of the equipment. Only nonferrous
   welding clamps should be used to prevent magnetic induction during actuation of the
   equipment.
27.17. Welding in Confined Spaces.
   27.17.1. When a welder must enter and/or perform a welding, cutting or brazing operation in
   a confined space, the requirements for confined space entry in Chapter 23, Confined Spaces,
   and AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, shall be strictly adhered to.
   Additionally, any welding, cutting or brazing in a confined space requires an AF Form 592,
   USAF Hot Work Permit, obtained from the installation FES Flight, with coordination by the
   installation Ground Safety office and BE. Refer to Figure 27.1 and Table 27.2 for additional
   guidance. All welding, cutting or brazing equipment shall be inspected for leaks, abrasions or
   defective equipment prior to inserting into the confined space. Equipment which fails the
   inspection process shall not be authorized within the space.
   27.17.2. When working in a confined space, conduct a leak test of all joints in any gas lines
   (oxygen-acetylene) to prevent introducing gases into the confined space. Before a welder
   enters a confined space, a visual inspection shall be conducted on all electrical cables and
   connections that shall be taken into the confined space. Also, position the fuel gas cylinders,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        527



   oxygen supply and welding machines outside of the confined space in a manner which shall
   not interfere with egress. When possible, remove unused torches and hoses from the confined
   space. Before operations are started, heavy portable equipment mounted on wheels shall be
   securely blocked to prevent accidental movement. In addition, strictly adhere to all
   requirements in Chapter 23.
   27.17.3. All welding and cutting operations performed within confined spaces shall be
   adequately ventilated to prevent the accumulation of toxic materials or possible oxygen
   deficiency. This applies not only to the welder, but also to helpers and other personnel in the
   immediate vicinity. As the existing air is withdrawn, it shall be replaced with fresh air which
   is clear and respirable. A continuous monitoring system, with audible alarms, shall be used
   for confined space work. Gases such as argon, propane and carbon dioxide are heavier than
   air. Gases such as helium and natural gas are lighter than air. Oxygen shall never be used for
   ventilation.
   27.17.4. In such circumstances, where it is impossible to provide such ventilation, BE shall
   determine the appropriate level of respiratory protection required. Only positive pressure air
   supplied respirators approved for use by BE are authorized.
   27.17.5. Where welding operations are performed within confined spaces, a trained attendant
   with a pre-planned rescue procedure shall be stationed outside the confined space(s) to
   ensure the safety of those working within the space.
   27.17.6. When gas welding or cutting, the torch valves shall be closed and the fuel-gas and
   oxygen supply to the torch positively shut off outside the confined area whenever the torch is
   not to be used for a substantial period of time, i.e., when left unattended for 30 minutes or
   more. Where practicable, torches and hoses shall also be removed from the confined space.
   27.17.7. When arc-welding is to be stopped for any substantial period of time, such as during
   lunch or overnight, all electrodes shall be removed from the holders and holders carefully
   located so that accidental contact cannot occur. Also, the machine shall be disconnected from
   the power source.
27.18. Hazards Associated with Fluxes, Coverings, Filler Metals and Base Metals. Note: If
any process has not already been evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to
paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance.
   27.18.1. Fluorine Compounds. The need for local exhaust ventilation or air supplied
   respirators for welding or cutting in other than confined spaces shall depend upon the
   individual circumstances. However, such protection is desirable for fixed-location production
   welding and for production welding on stainless steel. Where air samples indicate that
   fluorides liberated are below the maximum allowable concentration, such protection is not
   necessary. However, before use, read and understand the manufacturer‘s instructions, always
   consult the MSDSs and BE when handling fluorine compounds. Even when air samples are
   below the allowable levels, ensure employees are aware of the following:
      27.18.1.1. The worker shall keep their head out of the fumes.
      27.18.1.2. Use sufficient ventilation or exhaust at the work, or both to keep fumes and
      gases from the breathing zone.
 528                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       27.18.1.3. Avoid contact of flux with eyes and skin.
   27.18.2. Zinc. Indoor welding or cutting involving zinc-bearing base or filler metals coated
   with zinc-bearing materials shall require mechanical ventilation to remove the fumes.
   27.18.3. Lead. In confined spaces or indoors, welding or cutting involving metals containing
   lead, other than as an impurity, or involving metals coated with lead-bearing materials
   including paint, shall be performed using local mechanical exhaust ventilation. Workers in
   the immediate vicinity of the cutting operation shall be protected, as necessary, by
   ventilation, or respiratory protection, as directed by BE‘s OEH risk assessment.
   27.18.4. Beryllium. Welding or cutting involving beryllium-containing base or filler metals
   shall be performed using local mechanical exhaust ventilation and positive pressure airline
   respirators unless atmospheric tests, under the most adverse conditions, have established that
   the worker's exposure is within permissible concentrations. Workers in the immediate
   vicinity of the welding or cutting operations shall be protected as necessary by local
   mechanical exhaust ventilation or respiratory protection, as directed by BE‘s OEH risk
   assessment.
   27.18.5. Mercury. Welding or cutting indoors or in a confined space involving metals coated
   with mercury-bearing materials, including paint, shall be performed using local exhaust
   ventilation or positive pressure air supplied respirators unless atmospheric tests, under the
   most adverse conditions, have established that the worker's exposure is within permissible
   concentrations.
   27.18.6. Cleaning and Other Operations Involving the Use of Chlorinated Hydrocarbons. Do
   not locate these operations in areas where vapors or mists may reach the vicinity of welding
   operations. In addition, keep trichloroethylene and perchloroethylene away from the UV
   radiation of welding operations. Note: Refer to MSDSs associated with specific chemical
   hazards and BE for determining exposures and adequacy of ventilation systems, and
   recommending appropriate respiratory protective devices where chemical hazards exist or
   may be believed to exist.
   27.18.7. Hexavalent Chromium. Welding or cutting on materials containing chromium, such
   as stainless steel and painted surfaces, to include the use of welding rods, may generate
   hazardous levels of hexavalent chromium. Contact BE for an OEH risk assessment.

Table 27.1. Selection of Proper Shade Number for Welding Operations.
              Selection of Proper Shade Number for Welding Operations
Filter Lenses for Protection against Radiant Energy
Minimum                  *Protective
Operations              Electrode Size 1/32    Arc Current        Shade
                        in.
Shielded Metal Arc-Welding
                        Less than 3            Less than 60       7
                        3-5                    60-160             8
                        5-8                    160-250            10
                        More than 8            250-550            11
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         529



              Selection of Proper Shade Number for Welding Operations
Filter Lenses for Protection against Radiant Energy
Minimum                  *Protective
Operations              Electrode Size 1/32    Arc Current        Shade
                        in.
Gas Metal Arc-Welding and Flux Cored Arc-Welding (MIG)
                                               Less than 60       7
                                               60-160             10
                                               160-250            10
                                               250-500            10
Gas Tungsten Arc-Welding (TIG)
                                               Less than 50       8
                                               50 – 150           8
                                               150 – 500          10
Air Carbon              (Light)                Less than 500      10
Arc Cutting             (Heavy)                500 – 1000         11
Plasma Arc Welding
                                               Less than 20       6
                                               20 – 100           8
                                               100 – 400          10
                                               400 – 800          11
Plasma Arc-Cutting
                        (Light)**              Less than 300      8
                        (Medium)**             300 – 400          9
                        (Heavy)**              400 – 800          10
Torch Brazing                                                     3
Torch Soldering                                                   2
Carbon Arc-Welding                                                14

Operation                Plate Thickness           Plate Thickness          Minimum
                         (Inches)                  (mm)                     Protection
                                                                            Shade
Gas Welding:
Light                     Under 1/8                 Under 3.2                4
Medium                    1/8 to 1/2                3.2 to 12.7              5
Heavy                     Over 1/2                  Over 12.7                6
Oxygen Cutting:
Light                     Under 1                   Under 25                 3
Medium                    1 to 6                    25 to 150                4
Heavy                     Over 6                    Over 150                 5
*As a rule of thumb, start with a shade that is too dark to see the weld zone. Then go to a lighter
shade which gives a sufficient view of the weld zone without going below the minimum. In oxy-
fuel gas welding or cutting, where the torch produces a high yellow light, use a filter lens that
absorbs the yellow or sodium line in the visible light spectrum of the operation.
 530                                                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


**These values apply where the actual arc is clearly seen. Lighter filters may be used when the
arc is hidden by the item being welded.

Figure 27.1. AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit.
                  USAF HOT WORK PERMIT                                             1. Control Number
                            (See instructions on reverse)

2. Date Permit Issued                       3. Time Permit Issued                  4. Expiration (Date and Time)

5. Company/Organization                                     6. Company/Organization Phone Number

7. Location       Facility Number                       Floor Number

                  Aircraft Tail Number                       Inside Hanger     Outside Hanger

                   Other:
8. Description of Work



9. Is Fire Watch required?         Yes           No

Performed by:         Permit Authorizing Individual (PAI)       Operator/Supervisor                    Fire Watch
10. Before approving any hot work permit, the PAI shall inspect the work area and confirm that precautions have been
taken to prevent fire IAW AFI 91-203 and NFPA 51B.


      Sprinklers in service

      Adequate ventilation

      Hot work equipment in good repair

      Pressure cylinders are secured properly

      Portable fire extinguishers are provided (20 BC rated - immediate area / 80 BC rating back-up wheeled
      extinguisher)

      Explosive atmosphere eliminated (WITHIN 16 M (50 FT) OF WORK)

      Flammable liquids, vapors and gases removed

      Remove combustibles where possible. Otherwise protect with fire-resistant tarpaulins or metal shields

      Floors swept clean of combustibles

      Appropriate shields are used

      Wall and floor openings are covered

      Combustible floors wet down, covered with damp sand, or fire-resistant shields

      Any special precautions needed

11. The location where the work is to be performed has been examined, necessary precautions taken and permission is
granted for stated work.
                         Name:

                        Signed:                                     Contact Number:
                                    Permit Authorizing Individual (PAI)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                       531



12. I am fully qualified to perform this operation, understand my responsibilities and my equipment meets all requirements
as outlined in AFI 91-203 and NFPA 51B.

                       Name:

                      Signed:
                                    Operator or On-scene supervisor
13. Has this process been evaluated by installation Bioenvironmental Engineering? If “Yes,” attach documentation (BE
Survey Report, PPE List, etc.). If “No,” obtain BE coordination below.
                       Name:

                      Signed/Date:                                       Duty Title:
14. FINAL CHECK: Work area and all adjacent areas to which sparks and heat might spread, including floors above and
below and opposite side of walls, were inspected at least 30 minutes or later after the work was completed and were
found fire safe.

                       Name:

                      Signed:

AF Form 592 (Supersedes OCT 80)                                                                                SEP
07




Table 27.2. How To Fill Out AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit.
Block 1.             Control Number. Control numbers should be kept in a log so duplicate
                     numbers are not assigned. A control number consists of the year, a dash,
                     and the number from the log. Example: 03-001 would be the first control
                     number assigned in the year 2003.
Block 2.             Date Permit Issued. (Self-Explanatory)
Block 3.             Time Permit Issued. (Self-Explanatory)
Block 4.             Expiration (Date and Time): Date and Time the Permit Expires.
Block 5.             Company/Organization: Name of Company/Organization Issued Permit.
Block 6.             Company/Organization Phone Number: Contact Phone Number of
                     Company/Organization Issued Permit.
Block 7.             Location: Is it located in a Facility? What Floor? Is work being done on
                     an Aircraft? What is the Aircraft Tail Number? Is the Aircraft Inside or
                     Outside a Hanger?
Block 8.             Description of Work: Give a brief description of the work.
Block 9.             Is Fire Watch required? Answer Yes or No.
                     Performed by: Who is performing the Fire Watch?
Block 10.            Permit Authorizing Individual (PAI) fills out Inspection Checklist prior
                     to execution of hot work.
Block 11.            PAI signature granting permission to execute work.
Block 12.            Operator/On-scene supervisor signature stating understanding of
                     responsibilities under AFI 91-203 and NFPA 51B.
Block 13.            Installation BE signature confirming coordination, as required.
Block 14.            Fire Watch signature confirming Final Check completion.
 532                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


27.19. Welding, Cutting and Brazing Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like
all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter.
Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs,
FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command
or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   27.19.1. Are only approved apparatuses purchased for use? Reference 27.2.1.
   27.19.2. Do personal protective clothing and equipment meet or exceed the requirements of
   Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)? Reference 27.2.3
   27.19.3. Are contractors advised that they must comply with appropriate fire, safety and
   health requirements when welding, cutting or brazing on Air Force facilities? Reference
   27.2.4
   27.19.4. Are acetylene cylinders used and stored in an upright position? Reference 27.3.1
   27.19.5. Is the fuel gas and oxygen supply to the torch shut off when left unattended or not
   used for extended periods of time, i.e., when left unattended for 30 minutes or more?
   Reference 27.3.3
   27.19.6. Are welders aware that welding on concrete floors may cause the concrete to spall
   and produce projectiles? Reference 27.3.9
   27.19.7. Are welders provided appropriate fall protection when working on elevated
   surfaces? Reference 27.3.10
   27.19.8. Does the welding operation supervisor ensure installed fire protection sprinkler
   systems are operational before the welding operation begins, or, if not, ensure other means of
   fire detection, reporting and extinguishing have been approved by the installation FES
   Flight? Reference 27.3.12.2
   27.19.9. Are welding hoses visually checked for damage once a shift, before each use?
   Reference 27.4.1
   27.19.10. Are warning signs posted to prevent personnel from inadvertently touching hot
   items when left unattended? Reference 27.4.4
   27.19.11. Have workers and other personnel adjacent to the welding areas been protected
   from radiant energy or spatter by use of noncombustible and/or flameproof screens?
   Reference 27.5.1.1
   27.19.12. Are walls, screens, and non-rigid heat and spark barriers finished to limit
   reflectivity? Reference 27.5.1.2
   27.19.13. Have procedures been established to prevent personnel from entering an inside
   welding area and inadvertently being exposed to welding hazards? Reference 27.5.1.4
   27.19.14. Where floors have been wet down or damp sand applied, have rigid controls been
   established to ensure proper grounding of equipment, and are personnel protected from
   possible electrical shock? Reference 27.5.1.5
   27.19.15. Is a fully charged and operational fire extinguisher, appropriate for the task, kept
   in the work area at all times? Reference 27.5.1.6
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     533



  27.19.16. Are welding operations roped off or segregated by physical barriers to prevent
  unauthorized entry into the area? Reference 27.5.2.1
  27.19.17. Are outside welding operations placarded to warn bystanders that welding
  operations are in progress? Reference 27.5.2.1
  27.19.18. Has a written permit been obtained from the installation FES Flight prior to the
  start of welding operations? Reference 27.5.2.2
  27.19.19. Whenever welding activities are within 35 feet of combustible materials, are
  firewatcher procedures implemented? References 27.5.2.3 and 27.5.1.8.3
  27.19.20. Has a fire watch been assigned to monitor the operation for 30 minutes after
  completion of cutting or welding operations, to detect and extinguish possible smoldering
  fires? References 27.5.2.3 and 27.5.1.8.4
  27.19.21. Is the welding operation environment free of flammable liquids and vapors?
  Reference 27.5.2.4
  27.19.22. While welding and cutting operations are being performed, is fire extinguishing
  equipment available and ready for use? Reference 27.5.2.5
  27.19.23. Are approved flash arresters installed between each cylinder and the coupler block
  when acetylene cylinders are coupled? Reference 27.6.2
  27.19.24. Has backflow protection been provided that shall prevent oxygen from flowing
  into the fuel-gas system or fuel from flowing into the oxygen system? Reference 27.6.3
  27.19.25. Has flashback protection been provided by an approved device? Reference 27.6.4
  27.19.26. Has back-pressure protection been provided by an approved relief device, set at a
  pressure not greater than the pressure rating of the backflow or flashback device, whichever
  is lower? Reference 27.6.5
  27.19.27. Are clearly marked master shutoff valves provided for installed systems at points
  which are readily accessible? Reference 27.6.7
  27.19.28. Does clothing provide sufficient coverage to prevent skin burns? Reference 27.7.1
  27.19.29. Are front pockets and upturned sleeves or cuffs prohibited? Reference 27.7.1
  27.19.30. Are flame resistant gloves, in good condition, used to protect welder‘s hands?
  Reference 27.7.2
  27.19.31. When additional protection is needed, are durable flame-resistant aprons made of
  leather or suitable materials provided to protect the front of the body? Reference 27.7.3
  27.19.32. For heavy work, are flame-resistant leggings or other equivalent means used to
  give added protection to the legs? Reference 27.7.4
  27.19.33. When necessary, are cape sleeves or shoulder covers used during overhead
  welding, cutting or other operations? Reference 27.7.5
  27.19.34. When necessary, are flame-resistant caps worn under helmets to prevent head
  burns? Reference 27.7.6
534                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  27.19.35. Is only approved respirator equipment used when working in atmospheres of
  hazardous concentrations of airborne contaminants? Reference 27.7.7
  27.19.36. Do all welding helmets meet 29 CFR 1910.252, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing -
  General Requirements, requirements? Reference 27.7.8.1
  27.19.37. When two or more welders are exposed to each other's arc, are filter lens goggles
  worn under the welders‘ helmets to protect them from the harmful rays? Reference 27.7.8.2
  27.19.38. Are goggles or other suitable eye protection used during all gas welding or oxygen
  cutting operations? Reference 27.7.8.3
  27.19.39. Is eye protection in the form of suitable tinted goggles or spectacles provided for
  brazing operations? Reference 27.7.8.5
  27.19.40. Are workers trained to arrange helmets to protect the face, neck and ears from the
  arc's radiant energy? Reference 27.7.9.2
  27.19.41. Are ventilated goggles used to prevent fogging of the lenses? Reference 27.7.9.5
  27.19.42. Are hand-held shields, designed to shield the face and eyes, prohibited from use?
  Reference 27.7.9.10
  27.19.43. Does the commander ensure workers who handle, use or are potentially exposed to
  hazardous materials provided training IAW the AFHCP? Reference 27.8.2
  27.19.44. Do welders check gas line connections after assembly and before lighting the
  torch? Reference 27.9.1
  27.19.45. Is the tungsten-arc welding machine's power supply always disconnected before
  changing electrodes? Reference 27.10.5
  27.19.46. Are welders trained to never change tungsten-arc electrodes with bare hands or
  wet gloves? Reference 27.10.5.2
  27.19.47. Is welding on aircraft accomplished outside of hangars whenever possible?
  Reference 27.10.16.1
  27.19.48. Does the welding supervisor ensure the senior flight line supervisor is thoroughly
  briefed on the planned welding operation? Reference 27.10.16.2
  27.19.49. Prior to the start of welding operations, are fuel tank and engine fuel vents
  closed/plugged on any aircraft within 50 feet of the welding operation? Reference 27.10.16.4
  27.19.50. Does the welder rope off or segregate the welding operation by a physical barrier
  prior to starting the welding operation? Reference 27.10.16.8
  27.19.51. Is the fireguard informed to stop the welding operation if a hazardous condition
  develops? Reference 27.10.16.10
  27.19.52. Do aircraft welding operations performed in hangars conform to the requirements
  of Chapter 6 of this standard and NFPA 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance? Reference
  27.10.16.11
  27.19.53. Has the tank, cylinder, or other container which is to be cut, welded or have other
  hot work performed on it been purged or inert? Reference 27.10.17.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     535



  27.19.54. Are new containers inert or purged prior to cutting, welding or other hot processes
  being applied to it? Reference 27.10.17.1
  27.19.55. Are welding or cutting operations only conducted in vehicle maintenance
  approved by the installation FES Flight? Reference 27.12
  27.19.56. Does maintenance shop supervision evaluate each welding or cutting task to
  determine if batteries need to be removed or fuel tanks require removal and/or need to be
  made inert? Reference 27.12
  27.19.57. Do cylinders of compressed gas have pressure-reducing regulators installed?
  Reference 27.13.1
  27.19.58. Are oxygen cylinders and fittings kept free of grease and oil at all times?
  Reference 27.13.4
  27.19.59. Have circuits been de-energized before testing? Reference 27.14.1
  27.19.60. Are power cables and electrode holders inspected prior to every use? Reference
  27.14.4
  27.19.61. Before starting operations, has the work lead been firmly attached to the work?
  Reference 27.15.2.1
  27.19.62. Have cables with damaged insulation or exposed conductors been repaired or
  replaced? Reference 27.15.2.4
  27.19.63. Are electrode holders, when not in use, placed where they cannot make electrical
  contact with personnel, conducting objects, fuel or compressed gas cylinders? Reference
  27.15.4
  27.19.64. Does the welding supervisor ensure all welders meet the requirements of Chapter
  23, Confined Spaces, prior to entry into confined spaces? Reference 27.17.1
  27.19.65. Has a written permit (AF Form 592) been obtained from the FES Flight, with
  coordination by the installation Ground Safety office and BE, prior to starting welding
  operations in a confined space? Reference 27.17.1
  27.19.66. When welding or cutting operations are conducted in confined spaces, is there
  adequate ventilation to prevent the accumulation of toxic materials or possible oxygen
  deficiency? Reference 27.17.3
  27.19.67. Before operations are started, is heavy portable equipment mounted on wheels
  securely blocked? Reference 27.17.2
 536                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 28

                               INTERIOR SPRAY FINISHING

28.1. General Information. Painting, doping and paint removal hazards include exposure to
toxic materials and flammable or explosive mists, particulates and vapors. Inhalation of mists
and vapors from paints, solvents, thinners, cleaning chemicals, strippers and epoxies can be
injurious depending upon the agent‘s toxic characteristics and the amount and method of
exposure. Many can injure the skin and eyes, or be absorbed through the skin. Three of the more
toxic pigment ingredients are lead, antimony and chromates. Their use shall be avoided. In
addition, paints containing epoxy or polyurethanes can cause respiratory sensitization.
Respiratory sensitization results from an allergic reaction to a given substance. This sensitivity
develops during the induction period, which may be a few days to a few months. After sensitivity
is established, exposure to even a small amount of the sensitizing material can produce a severe
reaction. Refer to AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, and Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and
BE workplace evaluations for additional guidance and information.
28.2. Safety.
   28.2.1. Equipment used in painting operations is hazardous. Therefore, functional managers
   shall ensure spray painting operations are closely supervised and equipment is in serviceable
   condition.
   28.2.2. Other Equipment. Painter‘s ladders, scaffolds, lifelines and other equipment shall be
   inspected prior to use to ensure all equipment is in a safe condition. Refer to Chapter 7,
   Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable
   and Fixed Ladders, Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and Chapter 22,
   Flammables and Combustibles, for additional guidance and information. Powered industrial
   trucks, man lifts and other AGE shall meet the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.178, Powered
   Industrial Trucks, for Class I, Division I locations.
   28.2.3. Paint Mixing. Paint or dope mixing shall be performed in designated areas, which
   will be adequately ventilated rooms constructed of fire-resistant materials. The mixing of
   paint may be accomplished out of doors with approval of the installation Environmental
   Management office. Otherwise, paint shall only be mixed in a covered, dust-controlled area
   and shall not exceed local air emission standards. All sources of ignition shall be prohibited
   in mixing areas. All electrical fixtures or equipment within 20 feet of designated paint
   preparation areas shall meet the requirements of NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, for
   Class 1, Division 1 locations. Mixing rooms shall have spill control and cleanup measures in
   place for cleaning up large and small spills.
   28.2.4. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping is essential in paint and dope shops to control
   leakage and prevent the accidental escape of flammable, combustible or toxic liquids. Spills
   shall be cleaned up promptly. Work clothing shall be stored in metal lockers that are vented
   at top and bottom. Street clothing and protective clothing shall be kept in separate lockers.
   Paint rooms, booths, etc., shall be kept clean with equipment stored in a proper and orderly
   manner. Rags or waste soiled with sprayed materials shall be deposited in approved self-
   closing metal waste containers immediately after use. IAW AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous
   Waste Management Guide, and 29 CFR 1910.107(g) (3), Residue Disposal, the contents of
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          537



   waste containers shall be disposed of at the end of each shift or at least once daily. Contact
   the installation Environmental Management office for waste disposal guidance. Paint stored
   in workshops shall be kept in tightly covered metal containers and meet the requirements of
   Chapter 22.
   28.2.5. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Personnel engaged in painting and paint
   removal shall wear protective clothing, respiratory devices (if required) and appropriate face,
   eye and hand protection. Clothing shall be changed, as needed, to minimize body
   contamination and reduce the fire hazard. Personnel engaged in the application of dopes and
   paints will wear an apron or equivalent protection impervious to paints, solvents and dopes.
   These aprons and clothing shall be kept clean and, when not in use, shall be hung in
   ventilated metal lockers. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
   28.2.6. Eye Protection. Personnel using abrasive techniques to prepare surfaces for painting
   shall wear suitable eye protection to protect their eyes from chips and flying particles. Eye
   protection and rubber gloves shall be worn when using acids, lye or noxious cleaning
   materials. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
   28.2.7. Respiratory Protection. BE‘s OEH risk assessment determines respiratory protection.
   Refer to paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
28.3. Health/Environmental Protection.
   28.3.1. Radioactive Luminous Paint. This paint presents a potential health hazard and shall
   not be used without approval of the installation Radiation Safety Officer (usually the BE or
   assigned to BE). Refer to AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials In The US Air
   Force, for additional guidance.
   28.3.2. Protective Creams. Hand protective creams are available and may be used by
   workers engaged in cleaning and painting. These creams, when applied to the skin prior to
   painting operations, help protect the skin and facilitate the removal of contaminants by
   washing in water. Refer to BE‘s OEH risk assessment and paragraph 2.3 for additional
   guidance.
   28.3.3. Personal Hygiene. IAW 29 CFR 1910.134(g)(1)(i)(A), personnel required to wear
   tight fitting respiratory protection shall be clean shaven so facial hair will not interfere with
   the face-piece seal of the respirator. Workers shall keep hands and faces clean, clothes shall
   be changed when contaminated, and hands and soiled objects shall be kept out of the mouth.
   No food or drink shall be brought into or consumed in paint and dope shops. Workers shall
   wash their hands prior to smoking or consuming food outside the work area.
   28.3.4. Air and Water Pollution. Painting and paint removal operations can cause air and
   water pollution problems impacting both the installation and local community. Liquid, solid
   and gaseous waste products from painting and paint removal operations shall be disposed of
   IAW AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management, AFI 32-7041, Water
   Quality Compliance, AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, and as specified and approved by the
   installation CE.
 538                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


28.4. Fire Prevention and Protection.
   28.4.1. Fire Prevention. Some painting operations may pose fire hazards, i.e., paint removal,
   solvent wipe and paint application by means of spray apparatus. Refer to Chapter 6, Fire
   Protection and Prevention, NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, NPFA 13,
   Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, and NFPA 33, Spray Applications Using
   Flammable and Combustible Materials, for additional guidance.
   28.4.2. Paints. Certain paints, lacquers, dopes, varnishes, shellacs, solvents, thinners and
   dilatants are very flammable. Other paints, under certain conditions, will burn violently.
   These paints, for control purposes, are classified as flammable, unless specifically stated by
   the manufacture as being combustible.
   28.4.3. Paint Remover. Paint removers are corrosive and are considered flammable or
   combustible based on their flash point. They may contain volatile ingredients and the residue
   after evaporation may also be flammable or combustible.
   28.4.4. Solvents. Solvent materials used for residual cleanup, after the initial removal, will
   have a flashpoint of 140°F or above. Cleaning operations using flammable or combustible
   solvents shall be conducted inside spray areas with ventilating equipment operating.
   28.4.5. Methyl Ethyl Ketone (MEK). MEK is used as a solvent wipe-down on aircraft just
   prior to painting. MEK is extremely flammable with a flashpoint of 21°F. At normal working
   temperatures, MEK presents a constant fire hazard. Use extreme caution to ensure there are
   no ignition sources in the area and ventilation is adequate to remove flammable vapors.
   Workers shall use approved respiratory protection IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137 and
   minimize skin contact.
   28.4.6. Storage. Paints and solvents shall be stored IAW Chapter 22.
   28.4.7. Spray Painting. Spray painting presents varying degrees of fire hazards, depending
   on the materials used. Some are particularly dangerous, and the same precautions pertaining
   to solvent wipe-down apply. Any material having a flashpoint below 140°F shall be handled
   carefully, and precautions are in order even for those having a flashpoint higher than this.
   28.4.8. Housekeeping. Solvent or paint-soiled rags, paper towels and kraft paper can produce
   spontaneous ignition. Contaminated materials shall be removed and placed in approved self-
   closing metal containers plainly marked to indicate the contents. At the end of each shift or at
   least once daily, these containers shall be emptied or removed to an approved location
   outside the shop for pickup and disposal. Contact the installation Environmental
   Management office for waste disposal guidance. Refer to AFPAM 32-7043 and OSHA 29
   CFR 1910.107(g)(3) for additional guidance.
   28.4.9. Sprinklers. Fire suppression sprinklers installed in spray finishing areas shall
   conform to NFPA 13. Dry chemical or carbon dioxide extinguisher systems may be installed
   where automatic sprinkler protection is not available. Refer to NFPA 12, Standard on
   Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems, and NFPA 17, Standard for Dry Chemical
   Extinguishing Systems, for additional guidance.
   28.4.10. Extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed near all paint spraying
   areas. Refer to Chapter 6 for additional guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       539



28.5. Ventilation Systems.
   28.5.1. Ventilation. Each spray area shall be provided with mechanical ventilation capable of
   confining and removing vapors and mists to a safe location and capable of confining and
   controlling combustible residues, dusts and deposits. Mechanical ventilation shall be kept in
   operation whenever spray operations are conducted and for a sufficient time thereafter to
   allow ventilation of vapors from drying coated objects or material and residues. An adequate
   supply of makeup air shall be provided. BE shall be consulted for questions concerning
   makeup air requirements. Ventilation and exhaust systems shall be installed and conform to
   the provisions of this chapter and NPFA 91, Standard for Exhaust Systems for Air Conveying
   of Vapors, Gases, Mists and Noncombustible Particulate Solids. Refer to ACGIH‘s
   Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and
   Maintenance, for additional guidance.
   28.5.2. Exhaust and Ventilation Units. The rotating elements of the exhaust fan shall be of
   nonferrous materials or the fan shall be constructed so that a shift of the impeller or shaft
   shall not permit two ferrous parts to rub or strike together. There shall be ample clearance
   between the rotating element and fan casing to avoid a fire caused by friction. Necessary
   allowances shall be made for ordinary expansion and loading, and to prevent contact between
   moving parts and the duct or fan housing. Fan blades shall be mounted on a shaft rigid
   enough to maintain alignment when the fan is operating under full load. All bearings shall be
   of the self-lubricating type or shall be lubricated from a point outside the duct and,
   preferably, shall be located outside the duct and the booth.
   28.5.3. Exhaust Ducts. Exhaust ducts shall be protected against mechanical damage,
   properly supported and shall normally have a separation of at least 18 inches from
   combustible materials. Ducts shall be periodically inspected for accumulation of paint
   deposits and shall be cleaned as needed.
   28.5.4. Exhaust. Exhaust air from spray operations shall be directed so it shall not
   contaminate makeup air introduced into the spraying area or other ventilation intakes. Unless
   the spray booth exhaust is from a water wash spray booth, the terminal discharge point shall
   be at least 6 feet from any combustible exterior wall or roof and will not discharge within 25
   feet of any combustible construction or unprotected opening in any noncombustible exterior
   wall.
   28.5.5. Drying. Freshly sprayed articles shall only be dried in spaces with adequate
   ventilation to prevent the accumulation of explosive vapors. If adequate and reliable
   ventilation is not provided, such drying spaces shall be considered as spraying areas.
   28.5.6. Motors. Unless approved for use in a flammable vapor/dust environment, electric
   motors driving exhaust fans shall be placed outside of booths or ducts. Drive belts shall not
   enter the duct or booth unless the belt and pulley within the duct or booth are enclosed and
   guarded.
   28.5.7. Minimum safety, fire prevention and occupational health requirements pertaining to
   ventilation are addressed in this chapter. Ventilation and exhaust systems details, including
   information on flow-rate requirements, and the design of ventilation and exhaust systems are
   in the most current edition of the American Conference of Governmental Industrial
 540                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   Hygienists‘ (ACGIH) Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
   Operations and Maintenance. BE will determine what, if any, periodic testing of ventilation
   systems is required.
28.6. Storage and Handling.
   28.6.1. Storage. Limit the quantity of paints, lacquers, thinners, solvents and other
   flammable and combustible liquids kept near spraying operations to the minimum required
   for operations, but not to exceed one day‘s supply. Storage in process areas shall be no more
   than three (3) approved flammable liquids storage cabinets in any single process area without
   the approval of the authority having jurisdiction. Storage shall be listed or designed and
   constructed to meet the requirements of NFPA 30. Any single cabinet shall contain no more
   than 454 liters (120 gallons) of Class I, Class II or Class IIIA liquids, of which no more than
   227 liters (60 gallons) shall be Class I and Class II liquids. Bulk storage of these liquids shall
   be in a separate detached building or in rooms specifically designed and constructed to meet
   flammable storage requirements, i.e., inside smaller paint booth installations. Operations
   involving water-base latex paints are exempt from the above requirements. Refer to Chapter
   22 for additional guidance and information.
   28.6.2. Containers. Flammable or combustible liquids brought into spray finishing rooms
   shall be in original closed containers, approved portable tanks, approved safety cans or by a
   properly arranged system of piping. Containers shall be marked IAW AFI 90-821. Open or
   glass containers shall not be used.
   28.6.3. Liquid Transfer. The withdrawal of liquids from containers and the filling of
   containers, including portable mixing tanks, shall be done only in a mixing room or in a
   spraying area. The ventilating system shall be in operation. Precautions shall be taken to
   prevent liquid spillage.
   28.6.4. Grounding. Whenever flammable or combustible liquids are transferred from one
   container to another, both containers shall be effectively bonded and grounded. Piping
   systems used to transfer fluids shall also be properly bonded and grounded.
28.7. Electrical.
   28.7.1. Electrical Wiring. Electrical wiring and equipment shall conform to the provisions of
   NFPA 33, Standard for Spray Application Using Flammable or Combustible Materials.
   Electrical wiring located in spray areas must be in rigid metal conduit, Type MI cable, or in
   metal boxes or fitting containing no taps, splices or terminal connections. There are
   alternative electrical wiring options when the location is adjacent to, rather than inside, a
   spray area. Refer to NFPA 33 for additional guidance.
   28.7.2. Electrical Equipment. Electrical equipment outside, but within 20 feet horizontally
   and 10 feet vertically, of any spraying area and not separated from it by partitions extending
   at least to the boundary of the Division 2 location shall be of a non-spark-producing design.
   This equipment shall also conform to the provisions of the NEC for Class 1 or Class 1,
   Division 2 locations, as applicable. Refer to the illustrations in NFPA 33 for examples of
   how these space limitations apply. If spraying operations are confined to an enclosed spray
   booth or room, the space adjacent to the booth or room shall be considered non-hazardous
   except for the space within three (3) feet (in all directions) of any opening in the booth or
   room.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           541



   28.7.3. Electric Lamps. Electric lamps outside of, but within 20 feet, of any spraying area
   and not separated by a partition, shall be totally enclosed to prevent hot particles from falling
   should breakage occur, and shall be protected from mechanical damage by guards or by
   location. Portable electric lamps shall not be used in any spraying area during spraying
   operations.
   28.7.4. Grounding. All metal parts of spray booths, exhaust ducts and piping systems
   conveying flammable or combustible liquids or aerated combustible solids shall be
   electrically grounded in an effective and permanent manner.
   28.7.5. Heaters. If a heater is used to heat the liquid being sprayed, it shall be low-pressure
   steam, low-pressure hot water or electricity. If electric, it shall be approved and listed for the
   specific location in which it is used. Heaters shall not be located in spray booths or other
   locations subject to the accumulation of combustible residue. Agitators, if used, shall be
   driven by compressed air, water, low-pressure steam or electricity. If powered by an electric
   motor, the motor shall meet the requirements of NFPA 33.
28.8. Location of Paint Shops, Dope Shops and Spray-Finishing Operations.
   28.8.1. Paint Shops. Paint and dope shops shall be located in separate one-story buildings
   with fire-resistant floors, walls and ceilings. They may be located in specially constructed
   rooms if separated from other operations by fire-resistant walls. Paint and dope shops shall
   be provided with automatic sprinkler protection. Supervisors will avoid locating these shops
   near ignition sources. Refer to NFPA 33 for additional guidance.
   28.8.2. Spray Booths. When possible, paint spray booths shall be located in the paint and
   dope shop. In industrial facilities, spray-finishing operations shall be located and protected to
   minimize possible damage to other property by fire or by extinguishing agents. All spray
   booths shall be installed and conform to the requirements in NFPA 33, the BE OEH risk
   assessment and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
   Operations and Maintenance.
   28.8.3. Prohibited Locations. Spray-finishing operations shall not be conducted in an
   administrative, educational or public assembly facility, unless in a room specifically designed
   for the purpose, protected with an automatic sprinkler system and separated vertically and
   horizontally from such occupancies by not less than 2-hour fire-resistance construction.
28.9. Paint Spray Booths.
   28.9.1. Construction. ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice
   for Operations and Maintenance, provides guidance on construction and installation of
   ventilating systems for paint spraying operations and includes illustrations of both dry and
   water wash paint spray booths.
   28.9.2. Exhaust Filters.
      28.9.2.1. Filter pads and filter rolls shall be inspected after each painting operation and
      replaced when necessary or from a tracking log based on the number of hours in use.
      Consult the manufacturer‘s manual or the installation Environmental Management office
      for the proper replacement interval.
 542                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       28.9.2.2. Automatic-advance roll filters shall be equipped with interlocks to stop the
       spraying operation should the roll advance mechanism fail.
       28.9.2.3. Filter pads and rolls shall be made of noncombustible materials.
       28.9.2.4. Both filter pads and rolls shall be changed when changing coating materials if
       the two materials are susceptible to spontaneous combustion when in contact with each
       other.
       28.9.2.5. Discarded filter pads and rolls shall be removed from the area daily unless
       water-filled metal containers are provided to hold them immersed until disposal.
   28.9.3. Baffle Plates. Baffle plates, if used, shall be made of noncombustible material and
   readily removable or accessible on both sides for cleaning. Such plates shall be grounded.
   28.9.4. Extinguishers. The appropriate type and size portable fire extinguishers shall be
   located within the work area IAW NFPA 10 and the installation Fire Emergency Services
   (FES) Flight. Refer to Chapter 6 for additional guidance.
   28.9.5. Floor Covering. The floor of paint spray booths shall be covered with a
   noncombustible mat, removable for cleaning or disposal. If an overspray covering is not
   feasible, consult the installation Ground Safety office for additional guidance.
   28.9.6. Flame-Producing Devices. Using or carrying of matches, lighters or other spark or
   flame-producing devices in or adjacent to paint spray booths is prohibited.
   28.9.7. Containers. Containers supplying spray nozzles shall be a closed type or provided
   with metal covers, which shall be kept closed. Original shipping containers shall not be
   subjected to air pressure above atmospheric for supplying spray nozzles. Containers under
   pressure exceeding atmospheric pressure shall be designed and approved for such use, shall
   be provided with a visible pressure gauge and shall be provided with both a relief valve and a
   shutoff valve.
   28.9.8. Hoses and Couplings. Pressure hoses and couplings shall be regularly inspected for
   condition and shall be replaced, as needed. When positive displacement pumps are used, a
   relief valve shall be installed in the discharge line to prevent overpressure.
28.10. Compressed Air Paint Spraying.
   28.10.1. On compressed air spraying equipment, a pressure regulator valve shall be installed
   in the air line between the compressor and painting equipment. A pressure relief valve and a
   pressure gauge shall be installed between the pressure regulator and pressurized paint
   containers and/or spray guns. Pressure relief valves shall be set to open at pressures not more
   than 10 pounds above the required working pressure. Warning: Compressed air shall not be
   directed toward a fellow worker.
   28.10.2. Air Hoses. All hoses shall be checked prior to each shift to ensure they are properly
   connected to both their pipe outlets and the equipment to be used. Air hoses shall not be
   connected to a pipe outlet unless the loose end is secured, since a loose hose connected to a
   compressed air outlet will whip. Hose couplings shall be incompatible with airline
   respiratory protection hoses and/or respirators. Note: Quick release fittings or similar
   devices that prevent flow or air when hose is not attached to a tool or other equipment, may
   be used in place of securing the loose end of an air hose.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       543



   28.10.3. Any hose showing signs of deterioration, leakage or weakness in its carcass or at
   the coupling shall be withdrawn from service and repaired or discarded.
   28.10.4. Portable Paint Spray Equipment.
      28.10.4.1. Description. Equipment usually consists of an air compressor, paint spray gun
      and hose. The paint reservoir on most portable spray guns holds one quart of fluid or less.
      When a considerable amount of paint is to be applied, a 2-1/2 or 5-gallon pressure tank is
      usually employed.
      28.10.4.2. Compressor. The air compressor shall be equipped with an ASME-rated air
      tank, a visible pressure gauge on the tank, a pressure reducer with its own gauge, a guard
      fully enclosing the drive belt and pulleys and a pressure-limiting switch to shut down the
      compressor when the system‘s working pressure has been reached. The equipment shall
      be securely mounted on a wheeled carriage for portability. For interior painting, where
      the compressor shall be located inside the facility, only electric motor-driven equipment
      shall be used.
      28.10.4.3. Overpressure Protection. When separate paint pressure tanks are used, they
      shall be equipped with a gauge and a relief valve to prevent overpressure. Hoses shall be
      rated for the maximum working pressure of the system.
   28.10.5. Maintenance.
      28.10.5.1. A preventive maintenance program covering periodic inspection and testing of
      all components shall be implemented by all organizations using this equipment.
      28.10.5.2. Compressors, hoses, paint pressure tanks and spray guns shall be stored in
      areas designated and approved by the installation FES Flight.
      28.10.5.3. All paint pressure tanks and spray guns shall be cleaned after use and before
      the equipment is stored. If solvents are used in the cleaning process, provisions of
      Chapter 22 shall be followed.
   28.10.6. Respiratory Protection. If process not already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH
   risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance. Respiratory protective
   devices shall meet the requirements of AFOSH Standard 48-137.
28.11. Drying Ovens.
   28.11.1. Principle. Most drying ovens use gas or electricity to heat air which is blown across
   the components being dried, although infrared and microwave drying ovens are also used.
   Refer to the MSDS for the specific equipment to use.
   28.11.2. Fire Prevention. When used to dry flammable finishes, the ovens must meet or
   exceed NFPA 86, Standard for Ovens and Furnaces, requirements for Class A ovens. Avoid
   using spray booths or rooms for drying purposes. Raising the temperature of a spray booth
   increases the chance of spontaneous combustion of paint residues. Do not install drying
   ovens in a spraying area if the oven contains an open flame or a spark-producing element.
   Never conduct spraying operations in proximity to an operating drying oven.
   28.11.3. Ventilation. Adequately vent the exhaust air from the oven. The oven shall have its
   own ventilation system. If spray booth ventilation systems are utilized, the oven vent shall
 544                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   enter the system downstream from filters and baffles. In addition, an interlock shall be
   installed which will automatically start the blower when the oven is turned on and
   automatically shut down the oven if the blower stops operating, either by accident or
   intentionally.
   28.11.4. Electrical Wiring. Make sure electrical wiring for drying ovens and associated
   equipment conforms to the NEC.
   28.11.5. Grounding. Ensure metal parts of drying ovens are bonded and grounded.
   28.11.6. Warning Signs. Post signs in the vicinity of operating drying ovens to warn of heat
   and to caution against conducting spraying operations.
28.12. Spray Painting of Aircraft.
   28.12.1. Aircraft Painting. Spray painting of an entire aircraft is permitted only in hangars
   specifically designed for this purpose.
   28.12.2. Fire Prevention. When painting aircraft, the aircraft shall be isolated and adequate
   fire prevention measures taken. Solvents used for cleaning operations shall have flashpoints
   at or above 100° F. The aircraft shall be properly grounded and all sources of ignition
   removed from the area. All electrical devices and equipment shall be of an approved
   explosion-proof type. Except when essential to perform concurrent operations, all aircraft
   electrical systems shall be de-energized during cleaning, painting and paint removal.
   Smoking shall be prohibited. To prevent the accumulation of static charges, all materials or
   objects shall be effectively grounded. Refer to Chapter 6 for additional guidance.
   28.12.3. Ventilation. Ventilation shall be provided and BE shall periodically check the
   adequacy of ventilation IAW paragraph 28.5.7.
   28.12.4. Housekeeping. All spraying areas shall be kept free from the accumulation of
   deposits of combustible residues. Cleaning shall be conducted daily. Scraping tools shall be
   non-sparking. Roof trusses, light fixtures and other overhead equipment shall be checked for
   accumulation of over-spray at least annually. Rags or waste soiled with sprayed materials
   shall be deposited in approved self-closing metal waste containers immediately after use.
   IAW AFPAM 32-7043 and 29 CFR 1910.107(g) (3), the contents of waste containers shall
   be disposed of at the end of each shift or at least once daily. Refer to AFPAM 32-7043 for
   waste disposal guidance.
   28.12.5. Limited Painting. Refer to TO 1-1-8, Application and Removal of Organic
   Coatings, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment, for additional guidance and
   information.
   28.12.6. Grounding. Aircraft surfaces shall be grounded to preclude the build-up of static
   electricity whenever operations involving sanding, rubbing, painting or wiping surfaces are
   performed.
28.13. Painting Radio and Radar Equipment.
   28.13.1. Fire Prevention. The paints used to spray coat radio and radar equipment are very
   flammable and shall not be used near any open flames. IAW Chapters 6 and 22, smoking
   shall be prohibited within 50 feet of painting operations.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          545



   28.13.2. These paints are toxic and shall only be used in ventilated spray booths IAW
   ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and
   Maintenance.
   28.13.3. Personal Protective Equipment. Paint shop personnel shall wear PPE as identified in
   BE‘s OEH risk assessment. While painting, personnel shall wear gloves to guard against skin
   irritation, and shall wear any other necessary PPE needed to complete the task. Refer to
   paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
   28.13.4. Drying. Radio and radar equipment that has been spray painted, shall be placed in
   the open air for several hours or, if possible, for a full day. This will prevent vapors from off
   gassing during the drying process and from being ignited by sparks generated when the
   equipment is put into operation. Emery paper or steel wool shall not be used on radio or radar
   equipment until the vapors have totally dissipated.
28.14. Electrostatic Paint Spraying.
   28.14.1. Principle. In electrostatic paint spraying, low velocity particles of paint are passed
   through a negatively charged electrostatic field. The particles of paint assume the negative
   polarity of the electrodes and are then attracted to the work, which is positively charged,
   usually by being attached to a grounded conveyor.
   28.14.2. Fire Prevention. Fire hazards involved in electrostatic paint spraying include
   solvents used with the paint, possible sparking of the unit and the use of oil-filled
   transformers. Fire-protective equipment shall be checked regularly with particular attention
   given to automatic sprinkler heads. Sprinklers protecting spraying areas shall be kept free
   from deposits by frequent or, if necessary, daily cleaning. Portable fire extinguishers shall be
   available for use. Refer to Chapter 6 for additional guidance.
   28.14.3. Daily Inspection. Spraying equipment, including spray gun tips, shall be checked
   daily. The entire electrostatic unit shall also be checked daily, including the electrical
   terminals, electrodes and insulators. On humid days, condensation shall be carefully removed
   from insulators. The conveyor system shall be checked for jerky operation, loose hooks or
   other defects that could permit swinging of the units being painted. Moisture shall be
   removed from the compressed air storage tanks. Refer to the manufacturer‘s operating
   instructions or Chapter 25, Civil Engineering, for drainage requirements.
   28.14.4. Insulators. The insulators on electrodes and conductors shall be kept dry and
   cleaned frequently to prevent flashover.
   28.14.5. Maintenance. Before cleaning a nozzle or attempting any work on a spray gun, the
   power unit shall be turned off and the nozzle shall be grounded to discharge any static charge
   remaining in the system. Maintenance shall not be completed until enough time has elapsed
   to permit the solvent vapors to be drawn out of the area. In the absence of automatic
   grounding equipment, sufficient time shall be allowed to permit any remaining electrical
   charge to drain off. Only approved spark-resistant tools shall be used during cleaning
   operations, unless other type tools are permitted by the equipment manufacturer or TO.
   28.14.6. Grounding. All metal parts, including guard rails, shields, barriers and enclosures in
   the vicinity of a unit, shall be grounded to prevent static build-up. Manual grounding wires
 546                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   shall be available and workers shall be familiar with their use. Grounding shall be IAW AFI
   32-1065, Grounding Systems.
       28.14.6.1. Items being painted in an interior spray booth shall be bonded or grounded to
       lessen possibility of static discharge and explosion.
   28.14.7. Manual Spraying. To prevent build-up of a static charge on the operator‘s body, the
   spray gun handle shall be electrically connected to ground so the operator, in normal
   operating position, is in contact with the handle by a resistance of not more than 1 megohm
   to ground. 28.14.8. Personnel. Only properly trained, qualified and physically-fit persons
   shall be permitted to work around electrostatic apparatus. Medical examinations shall be
   scheduled with base medical services, as needed.
   28.14.8. Warning Signs. Signs shall be conspicuously posted, designating the process zone
   as dangerous and indicating the necessity for grounding personnel entering the spray area. A
   red ON light shall be installed to the interlocked power transformer circuit.
28.15. Airless Paint Spraying.
   28.15.1. Principle. The principle of the airless spray method is to force paint through a small
   orifice at pressures from 1,800 to 4,000 pounds per square inch (psi). An electric or air-
   powered pump increases the hydraulic pressure of the paint in the hose and pressure vessel, if
   so equipped, and forces the paint, which may be heated to decrease its viscosity, from the
   spray gun. When the paint is forced through the orifice under high pressure, it expands and
   breaks into small particles. The atomized particles have enough velocity to carry them to the
   surface to be painted, but not enough to rebound. A spray pattern of wide coverage is created
   rapidly and with very little mist. Since the pattern has unusually sharp edges, masking and
   shielding are not necessary on most jobs. Warning: Never point an airless spray gun at any
   part of the body.
   28.15.2. Operation.
       28.15.2.1. Paint can be hypodermically injected into the body by high operating
       pressures.   Injected paint may be life threatening and requires immediate medical
       treatment.
       28.15.2.2. Do not disconnect the gun from the fluid hose or the hose from the pump until
       the pressure has been released from the hose and other components. This is accomplished
       by first closing off the electric power or air pressure to the pump and then bleeding off
       pressure in the fluid hose, by triggering the gun, before disconnecting it.
       28.15.2.3. When handling the gun, but not actually spraying (e.g., when changing parts
       or work position), hold the gun by the grip and remove the fingers from the trigger. This
       shall prevent the gun from being activated if the operator‘s hold shall inadvertently
       tighten due to slipping or stumbling. Note: Guns shall be equipped with trigger guards
       and a safety lock. The lock shall be positioned to prevent operation, except when the gun
       is actually in use.
       28.15.2.4. Ensure all hoses connections and fittings are tight and not leaking. Note: The
       fluid hose shall be designed to withstand the high pressure of the system. The hose, gun
       and pressure vessel, if so equipped, shall be equipped with special fittings that are not
       interchangeable with low pressure fittings or any other fittings.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        547



      28.15.2.5. Workers will inspect hoses prior to use to ensure they have no weak or worn
      spots. Make certain the hoses do not contact moving parts of machinery, lie over or
      around sharp edges and corners, or come into contact with objects that would damage
      them. Check for deterioration caused by exposure to chemicals and ordinary wear and
      tear. Warning: High-pressure leaks from hoses or connections may also cause
      hypodermic injection of paint. Injected paint may be life threatening and requires
      immediate medical treatment.
      28.15.2.6. Cleaning. Consult the manufacturer‘s operating instructions for cleaning
      procedures. Never pass a finger over the gun orifice to clean it, as this can result in
      hypodermic injection of paint into the finger. Injected paint may be life threatening and
      requires immediate medical treatment.
      28.15.2.7. Ground the object being sprayed, as well as the spray gun, to prevent
      accumulating of static electricity. A static electricity discharge may ignite vapors in the
      confined atmosphere. Fluid hoses with a ground wire will prevent the accumulation of a
      static charge if the airless unit is grounded and the object being sprayed is also grounded.
      Periodic continuity checks shall be performed to ensure hose grounding is intact.
      28.15.2.8. Operators shall wear eye protection and gloves to guard against accidental
      contact with the spray. Also, BE-approved respiratory protective equipment shall be worn
      if exhaust ventilation is inadequate or not available.
28.16. Aerosol Cans of Spray Paint.
   28.16.1. Availability. Pressurized cans of general purpose spray lacquers or enamels are
   available through the GSA and commercial supply systems. The lacquers are available in
   acrylic, styrene/acrylic and nitrocellulose bases in a variety of colors.
   28.16.2. Precautions. The same general safety and health precautions apply to spray painting
   from pressurized cans as to spray painting by other means.
   28.16.3. Storage. Cans of spray paint shall be considered flammable materials and stored
   IAW criteria in Chapter 22. Office desks shall not be used to store cans of spray paint.
   Office storerooms shall not be used to store cans of spray paint, unless the storage area has
   been approved by the installation FES Flight.
   28.16.4. Disposal.
      28.16.4.1. Dispose of empty and malfunctioning cans IAW AFPAM 32-7043, 29 CFR
      1910.107(g)(3), other approved hazardous waste disposal procedures and applicable
      environmental regulations. Contact the installation Environmental Management office for
      local guidance.
      28.16.4.2. Wiping rags and other hazardous waste materials shall be disposed of in self-
      closing metal containers labeled to indicate the contents and IAW the procedures
      established by the installation Environmental Management office, AFPAM 32-7043, 29
      CFR 1910.107(g)(3), other approved hazardous waste disposal procedures and applicable
      environmental regulations. Do not dispose of cans of spray paint, wiping rags and other
      hazardous waste materials in office waste receptacles.
 548                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       28.16.4.3. Personal Protective Equipment. The same general rules governing the use of
       PPE apply to painting with pressurized cans. Refer to other sections of this chapter and
       Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
28.17. Powder Coating.
   28.17.1. Principle. These operations deposit air suspended powders on components in
   specially constructed containers called fluidized beds. Some beds are designed to place an
   electrostatic charge on the powder and the opposite charge on the component being coated.
   These aerated solid powders must be trapped and not allowed to escape to the atmosphere.
   Refer to manufacturer‘s specifications and NFPA 33, Standard for Spray Application Using
   Flammable or Combustible Materials, for fluidized bed use.
   28.17.2. Fire Prevention. Electrostatic fluidized beds and associated equipment shall be
   approved types. The maximum surface temperature of equipment in the coating area shall not
   exceed 150° F. The high voltage circuits shall be designed to not produce a spark of
   sufficient intensity to ignite any powder-air mixtures or result in an appreciable shock hazard
   upon contact with a grounded object, under normal operating conditions. Transformers,
   power packs, control apparatus and all other electrical portions of the equipment, with the
   exception of the charging electrodes and their connections to the power supply, shall be
   located outside the powder coating area.
   28.17.3. Ventilation. Forced exhaust ventilation is mandatory to maintain a safe atmosphere.
   Dust collectors shall be incorporated within the ventilation system to trap all excess powder.
   Where applicable, exhaust ventilation shall be sufficient to maintain the atmosphere below
   the lowest explosive limits for the materials being applied. The electrical equipment shall be
   interlocked with the ventilation system so the equipment cannot be operated unless the
   ventilation fans are in operation.
   28.17.4. Housekeeping. All areas shall be kept free of the accumulation of powder coating
   dusts, including horizontal surfaces such as ledges, beams, pipes, hoods, booths and floors.
   Surfaces shall be cleaned in a manner that does not scatter powder or create dust clouds.
   Vacuum sweeping equipment, where used, shall be of a type approved for use in hazardous
   locations. Water-saturated cleaning cloths shall be used to remove powder dust and to
   preclude scattering dust deposits.
   28.17.5. Grounding. Objects being coated shall be maintained in contact with the conveyor
   or other support to insure proper grounding. Hangers shall be regularly cleaned to ensure
   effective electrical contact and areas of contact shall be sharp points or knife edges where
   possible. The powder coating equipment shall carry a prominent, permanently installed
   warning regarding the necessity for bonding and grounding all metal parts of the fluidized
   bed and the objects being coated.
28.18. Organic Peroxide Coating.
   28.18.1. Principle. This type coating is applied using a special purpose spray gun. The
   peroxide acts as a catalyst and is introduced through one nozzle of the gun. A second
   material, a polyester, is introduced through a second nozzle. When the two mix at the
   application point, a chemical reaction occurs producing a plastic polymer coating. Refer to
   the manufacturer‘s label for the specific material in use and NFPA 33 for additional
   guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         549



   28.18.2. Training. Only designated personnel, trained to use and handle organic peroxide
   formulations, shall be permitted to use these materials.
   28.18.3. Fire Prevention. Do not interchange equipment used for organic peroxide coating
   with that used for any other application. Peroxides are oxidizers and shall not be mixed with
   other materials. Promptly clean up any overspray or spills. Use noncombustible absorbent
   material for cleanup purposes. Do not store or place organic peroxide materials near any
   source of heat. Avoid rough handling, since these materials are sensitive to shock. Smoking
   is prohibited and NO SMOKING signs shall be posted in any area where organic peroxides
   are stored, mixed or applied. Use non-sparking tools in areas where these materials are
   stored, mixed or applied. (Note: Copper beryllium tools must not be purchased, kept or
   dressed. If a copper beryllium tool is found that has lain undisturbed for more than three (3)
   years, notify BE for assistance in removal. If there is no copper beryllium non-sparking tool
   substitute, consult with BE to determine how to apply for an exception to this requirement.)
   Dispose of this material IAW AFPAM 32-7043, 29 CFR 1910.107(g)(3), other approved
   hazardous waste disposal procedures and applicable environmental regulations. Contact the
   installation Environmental Management office for local guidance.
   28.18.4. Protective Equipment. Ensure respirators, gloves and protective clothing are used,
   as recommended or required in BE‘s OEH risk assessment.
   28.18.5. Ventilation. Ensure all spraying operations involving the use of organic peroxides
   are conducted in spray booths meeting the requirements of the BE OEH risk assessment,
   ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and
   Maintenance and NFPA 13.
   28.18.6. Storage of Organic Peroxides. Ensure personnel keep only the minimum quantity of
   peroxides needed for daily operations in the processing area. Organic peroxide formulations
   shall be stored IAW NFPA 42, Code for the Storage of Organic Peroxide Formulations, and
   the manufacturers‘ recommendations.
   28.18.7. Mixing of Organic Peroxides with Promoters. Organic peroxide formulations shall
   not be mixed directly with any cobalt compounds or other promoters or accelerations, as
   violent decomposition or explosion can result. To minimize the possibility of such accidental
   mixing, these materials shall not be stored adjacent to each other.
28.19. Interior Spray Finishing Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   28.19.1. Do functional managers ensure spray painting operations are closely supervised and
   equipment is in serviceable condition? Reference 28.2.1
   28.19.2. Are painters‘ ladders, scaffolds, lifelines and other equipment inspected prior to use
   to be certain they are in safe condition? Reference 28.2.2
   28.19.3. Is paint or dope mixing done in designated, adequately ventilated rooms constructed
   of fire-resistant materials? Reference 28.2.3
550                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  28.19.4. Are all sources of ignition prohibited in mixing areas? Reference 28.2.3
  28.19.5. Do mixing rooms have spill control and cleanup measures? Reference 28.2.3
  28.19.6. Are soiled wiping rags kept in self-closing metal waste containers? Reference
  28.2.4
  28.19.7. Is paint stored in work shops kept in tightly covered metal containers? Reference
  28.2.4
  28.19.8. Do personnel engaged in painting and paint removal wear protective clothing,
  respiratory devices (if required) and appropriate face, eye and hand protection? Reference
  28.2.5
  28.19.9. Do personnel engaged in preparing surfaces for painting by abrasive techniques,
  wear eye protection? Reference 28.2.6
  28.19.10. Are goggles and rubber gloves worn while acids, lye or noxious cleaning materials
  are used? Reference 28.2.6
  28.19.11. Are all respirators used during painting operations approved by BE? Reference
  28.2.7
  28.19.12. Has the use of radioactive paint been approved by the installation RSO prior to its
  use? Reference 28.3.1
  28.19.13. Are liquid, solid and gaseous waste products from painting and paint removal
  operations disposed of IAW AFIs 32-7040, 32-7041 and 32-7042? Reference 28.3.4
  28.19.14. Do solvent materials used for residual clean up have a flashpoint of 140° F or
  above? Reference 28.4.4
  28.19.15. Is extreme caution employed to ensure there are no ignition sources in the area and
  ventilation is adequate to remove flammable vapors when using Methyl Ethyl Ketone
  (MEK)? Reference 28.4.5
  28.19.16. Is storage of paints and solvents IAW Chapter 22? Reference 28.4.6
  28.19.17. Are contaminated materials, i.e., solvent or paint-soiled rags, paper towels and
  kraft paper, removed and placed in approved self-closing metal containers? Reference 28.4.8
  28.19.18. At the end of each day or shift, are the contents of these containers disposed of?
  Reference 28.4.8
  28.19.19. Are portable fire extinguishers installed near all paint spraying areas? Reference
  28.4.10
  28.19.20. Is mechanical ventilation in operation while spraying operations are conducted and
  for a sufficient time thereafter to ensure vapors are completely exhausted? Reference 28.5.1
  28.19.21. Are ducts periodically inspected for accumulation of paint deposits and cleaned as
  needed? Reference 28.5.3
  28.19.22. Is air exhaust from spray operations directed so it will not contaminate makeup air
  being introduced into the spraying area or other ventilation intakes? Reference 28.5.4
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       551



  28.19.23. Are freshly sprayed articles dried only in spaces with adequate ventilation to
  prevent the formation of explosive vapors? Reference 28.5.5
  28.19.24. Are ventilation systems periodically evaluated as identified in BE‘s OEH risk
  assessment? Reference 28.5.7
  28.19.25. Are the quantity of paints, lacquers, thinners, solvents and other flammable and
  combustible liquids kept near spraying operations limited to a one day‘s supply? Reference
  28.6.1
  28.19.26. Is bulk storage of these liquids in a separate building, detached from other
  buildings, or in rooms specifically designed and constructed to meet flammable storage room
  requirements? Reference 28.6.1
  28.19.27. Is the withdrawal of liquids from containers and the filling of containers including
  portable mixing tanks done only in a mixing room or in a spraying area when the ventilating
  system is in operation? Reference 28.6.3
  28.19.28. Are precautions taken to protect against liquid spillage? Reference 28.6.3
  28.19.29. When flammable or combustible liquids are transferred from one container to
  another, are both containers effectively bonded and grounded? Reference 28.6.4
  28.19.30. Are piping systems used to transfer fluids properly bonded and grounded?
  Reference 28.6.4
  28.19.31. Are portable electric lamps prohibited in spray areas during spraying operations?
  Reference 28.7.3
  28.19.32. Are all metal parts of spray booths, exhaust ducts, and piping systems conveying
  flammable or combustible liquids or aerated combustible solids electrically grounded?
  Reference 28.7.4
  28.19.33. Are filter pads and filter rolls inspected after each painting operation and replaced
  when necessary? Reference 28.9.2.1
  28.19.34. Are interlocks used with automatic-advanced roll filters to stop the spraying
  operation should the roll advance mechanism fail? Reference 28.9.2.2
  28.19.35. Are both filter pads and rolls changed when changing from one type coating
  material to another if the two materials are susceptible to spontaneous combustion on contact
  with each other? Reference 28.9.2.4
  28.19.36. Are discarded filter pads and rolls removed from the area daily unless water-filled
  metal containers are provided to hold them immersed until disposal? Reference 28.9.2.5
  28.19.37. Is the appropriate size and type of portable fire extinguisher available within the
  spray areas? Reference 28.9.4
  28.19.38. Is the use or carrying of matches, lighters or other spark or flame-producing
  devices prohibited in or adjacent to spray booths? Reference 28.9.6
  28.19.39. Are pressure hoses and couplings regularly inspected for poor condition and
  replaced, as needed? Reference 28.9.8
552                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  28.19.40. Are pressure relief valves set to open at pressures not more than 10 pounds above
  the required working pressure? Reference 28.10.1
  28.19.41. Are all air hoses checked prior to each shift to ensure they are properly connected
  to both their pipe outlets and the equipment to be used? Reference 28.10.2
  28.19.42. To prevent hose whipping, is the loose end secured prior to connecting hose to a
  compressed air outlet? Reference 28.10.2
  28.19.43. Are hose lines checked for evidence of wear and replaced as needed? Reference
  28.10.3
  28.19.44. Is the compressor and tank equipment securely mounted on a wheeled carriage for
  portability? Reference 28.10.4.2
  28.19.45. Are all paint pressure tanks and spray guns cleaned after each use and before being
  stored? Reference 28.10.5.3
  28.19.46. Is the exhaust air adequately vented from drying ovens? Reference 28.11.3
  28.19.47. Are metal parts of drying ovens bonded and grounded? Reference 28.11.5
  28.19.48. Is spray painting of an entire aircraft permitted only in hangars specifically
  designed for this purpose? Reference 28.12.1
  28.19.49. When spray painting aircraft, are the aircraft isolated and adequate fire prevention
  measures taken? Reference 28.12.2
  28.19.50. Are all aircraft properly grounded and all sources of ignition removed from the
  area prior to spray painting an aircraft? Reference 28.12.2
  28.19.51. Is smoking prohibited in the area where the aircraft will be spray painted?
  Reference 28.12.2
  28.19.52. Are all aircraft electrical systems de-energized during cleaning, painting and paint
  removal operations? Reference 28.12.2
  28.19.53. Is proper ventilation provided when spray painting aircraft? Reference 28.12.3
  28.19.54. Are all aircraft spray paint areas kept free from the accumulation of deposits of
  combustible residues? Reference 28.12.4
  28.19.55. Are all scraping tools used during spray paint of aircraft operations non-sparking?
  Reference 28.12.4
  28.19.56. Are containers emptied daily or after each shift? Reference 28.12.4
  28.19.57. Are aircraft surfaces grounded to preclude the build-up of static electricity
  whenever operations involving sanding, rubbing, painting or wiping surfaces are performed?
  Reference 28.12.6
  28.19.58. Is smoking prohibited within 50 feet of painting operations? Reference 28.13.1
  28.19.59. While painting, do personnel wear gloves or other BE-approved PPE needed to
  complete the task? Reference 28.13.3
  28.19.60. Is fire prevention equipment checked regularly, with particular attention given to
  automatic sprinkler heads? Reference 28.14.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      553



  28.19.61. Are sprinklers protecting spraying areas kept free from deposits by frequent or
  daily cleaning? Reference 28.14.2
  28.19.62. Is the entire electrostatic unit checked daily? Reference 28.14.3
  28.19.63. Are insulators on electrodes and conductors kept dry and cleaned frequently to
  prevent flashover? Reference 28.14.4
  28.19.64. Are the power unit and ground nozzle turned off, to discharge any remaining
  charge within the system before cleaning a nozzle or attempting to work on any gun?
  Reference 28.14.5
  28.19.65. Are only non-copper beryllium spark-resistant tools used during cleaning
  operations? Reference 28.14.5
  28.19.66. Are all metal parts, including guard rails, shields, barriers, and enclosures in the
  vicinity of a unit, grounded to prevent static build-up? Reference 28.14.6
  28.19.67. Is the handle of the spray gun electrically connected to ground? Reference 28.14.7
  28.19.68. Are only properly trained, qualified and physically-fit personnel permitted to work
  around electrostatic apparatus? Reference 28.14.8
  28.19.69. Are warning signs posted designating the spray process zone as dangerous ?
  Reference 28.14.9
  28.19.70. Is a red ―ON‖ light installed in the interlocked power transformer circuit?
  Reference 28.14.9
  28.19.71. Do workers make sure they do not disconnect the airless paint spray gun from the
  fluid hose, or the hose from the pump, until the hose and other components have been
  depressurized? Reference 28.15.2.2
  28.19.72. Is the safety lock positioned to prevent operation, except when the gun is actually
  in use? Reference 28.15.2.3
  28.19.73. Are all hose connections and fittings tight and not leaking? Reference 28.15.2.4
  28.19.74. Are all hoses checked for weak or worn spots? Reference 28.15.2.5
  28.19.75. Are the object being sprayed and the spray gun grounded to prevent accumulation
  of static electricity? Reference 28.15.2.7
  28.19.76. Are periodic continuity checks performed to ensure the hose grounding is intact?
  Reference 28.15.2.7
  28.19.77. Does the operator wear eye protection and gloves to guard against accidental
  contact with the spray? Reference 28.15.2.8
  28.19.78. Is BE-approved respiratory protective equipment worn if exhaust ventilation is
  inadequate or not available? Reference 28.15.2.8
  28.19.79. Are cans of spray paint stored IAW Chapter 22? Reference 28.16.3
  28.19.80. Do supervisors ensure office desks are not used to store spray paint? Reference
  28.16.3
554                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  28.19.81. Are empty and malfunctioning cans of spray paint disposed of IAW AFPAM 32-
  7043? Reference 28.16.4.1
  28.19.82. Are wiping rags and other waste materials disposed of in self-closing metal
  containers labeled to indicate the contents? Reference 28.16.4.2
  28.19.83. Do supervisors ensure office waste cans are not used for the disposal of spray
  paint cans, wiping rags or other hazardous waste materials? Reference 28.16.4.2
  28.19.84. Is the powder coating area free of accumulations of powder coating dust?
  Reference 28.17.4
  28.19.85. Are all metal parts of the fluidized bed electrically bonded and grounded?
  Reference 28.17.5
  28.19.86. Is equipment used for organic peroxide coating prevented from interchange with
  that used for any other application? Reference 28.18.3
  28.19.87. Are noncombustible absorbent materials used for clean-up purposes during
  organic peroxide coating operations? Reference 28.18.3
  28.19.88. Do supervisors ensure organic peroxide materials are not stored near any source of
  heat? Reference 28.18.3
  28.19.89. Is smoking prohibited and are ―NO SMOKING‖ signs posted in areas where
  organic peroxides are stored, mixed or applied? Reference 28.18.3
  28.19.90. Are non-sparking tools used in areas where organic peroxide coating materials are
  stored, mixed or applied? Reference 28.18.3
  28.19.91. Is the quantity of organic peroxides kept in the processing area the minimum
  required for daily operations? Reference 28.18.6
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       555



                                          Chapter 29

                        MISHAP PREVENTION SIGNS AND TAGS

29.1. General Information.
   29.1.1. Hazards.
       29.1.1.1. Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, and AFI 91-202, The US Air
       Force Mishap Prevention Program, for further information on the JSA and job safety
       training guide. Note: A JSA is not required when existing guidance adequately covers all
       safety requirements of an operation or process. Example: TO 00-25-172, Ground
       Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
       29.1.1.2. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, Chapter 3, Physical Hazards, and
       Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
       29.1.1.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. BE personnel perform
       occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments of work processes.
       Supervisors with workplace health hazards questions should contact BE. Refer to
       paragraph 2.3 for additional information.
29.2. Specific Information. This chapter outlines Air Force requirements for safety, health and
fire prevention signs and tags. It applies to all work environments, but is not intended to cover
signs or tags unique to aircraft, motor vehicle, railroad or marine operations.
   29.2.1. This chapter establishes requirements for hazard-information devices (signs and tags)
   at facilities and workplaces with conditions that pose significant hazards to personnel or
   property. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, areas with flammable or toxic
   materials, lethal electrical sources and other potentially hazardous equipment and materials.
   Rapid identification and warning of existing and potential hazards to workers is important,
   especially for individuals not routinely in these work areas.
   29.2.2. Interior and other installation specific signs shall be designed IAW UFC 3-120-01,
   Air Force Sign Standard, where applicable. This chapter also adopts occupational safety and
   health signs in 29 CFR 1910.144, Safety Color Code for Marking Physical Hazards, and 29
   CFR 1910.145, Specifications for Accident Prevention Signs and Tags. Where OSHA has
   specific requirements, they shall be followed in addition to applicable federal, state or
   municipal regulations. In the absence of OSHA requirements, ANSI standards shall be
   followed, including ANSI Z535.1, Safety Colors, ANSI Z535.2-2007, Environmental and
   Facility Safety Signs, ANSI Z535.3-2007, Criteria for Safety Symbols, and ANSI Z535.4-
   2007, Product Safety Signs and Labels.
   29.2.3. This chapter establishes and prescribes general hazard identification tags for Air
   Force use. These tags satisfy AFI 91-202 hazard notification requirements and shall be used
   when notification is required.
   29.2.4. Availability of Safety Signs and Tags. The functional manager or supervisor shall
   ensure an adequate supply of safety signs and tags is available to workers.
 556                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   29.2.5. Other signs or tags prescribed by Air Force directives for site-specific hazards shall
   be brought to the attention of HQ AFSEC/SEG, i.e., signs or tags that may be included in this
   instruction or clarification of usage.
29.3. Requirements. Signs and tags are an effective means for communicating hazard
information to workers to prevent injuries. They provide additional safety guidance and increase
workers‘ awareness of potentially hazardous conditions. However, signs and tags are not
substitutes for abatement action such as engineering controls, substitution, isolation or safe work
practices. Wording on signs and tags shall be concise, accurate, easily read, contain sufficient
information to be easily understood and make a positive, rather than negative, statement.
   29.3.1. Specifications and Use of Safety, Fire Prevention and Health Signs. Signs shall be
   uniform, properly worded and located, with a meaning immediately and clearly understood
   as an automatic warning, caution or notice to all personnel no matter where they work.
       29.3.1.1. Standard Proportions for Signs. Commercially manufactured signs are designed
       and proportioned for uniformity and legibility and shall be used, if available. If not
       available, signs may be manufactured locally IAW Table 29.1 through Table 29.6
       29.3.1.2. Sign Placement. Signs shall be located to alert personnel in time to avoid the
       hazard, not be in harm‘s way before seeing the sign. Signs may provide directions to
       eliminate or reduce the hazard and may state consequences of not avoiding the hazard.
           29.3.1.2.1. Signs shall be placed so they are visible, do not cause distractions and are
           not a hazard themselves; for example, avoid low-hanging signs or ones that protrude
           into a walkway.
           29.3.1.2.2. Signs shall have rounded corners and be free of burrs and splinters. Sign
           fasteners shall have no protruding parts that could cause abrasions or lacerations.
           29.3.1.2.3. To prevent confusion, avoid grouping too many signs together in the
           same location.
           29.3.1.2.4. Signs shall not be placed on moveable objects or adjacent to moveable
           objects like wheeled equipment, removable partitions, on doors, etc., which, if
           moved, will obscure the sign.
           29.3.1.2.5. Signs shall have adequate illumination. If illumination is inadequate
           under emergency conditions, signs shall be equipped with emergency (battery
           operated) illumination, be luminescent or both. Consult the local CE facility design
           section for lighting guidance for specific locations.
   29.3.2. Lettering. Lettering shall be of sufficient size and contrast to be readily visible and
   legible. Legibility of text is influenced by letter height, the ratio of letter height to width
   (stroke width), and spacing between letters, words and lines. Refer to UFC 3-120-01 for
   guidance on lettering size. Table 29.1 shows distances that well-proportioned letters of
   different heights can be read by persons with 20/40 visual acuity under good lighting
   conditions.
       29.3.2.1. Overall lettering size shall be determined by the distance from which the sign
       can be safely and easily read. Letters shall be adequately spaced, not crowded and the
       message as concise as practical.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     557



     29.3.2.2. A safe viewing distance shall be determined for each location where a safety
     sign is needed. The message panel text shall also meet safe viewing distance legibility
     criteria. Figure 29.7 shows examples of signs with pictograph and message panels. Note:
     A rule-of-thumb of 35-40 feet viewing distance per inch of letter height may be used.
  29.3.3. Safety Symbols. Safety symbols may be used to clarify, supplement or as a substitute
  for part or all words in the message panel. A symbol may only be used if it is
  comprehensible. Training materials and manuals can be used to train workers on a symbol‘s
  meaning.
     29.3.3.1. Safety symbols are pictorials, pictographs or other graphic representations
     chosen to clearly convey a specific safety message. Ideally, a symbol should be
     graphically simple, readily understood, make a strong impact and be easily remembered.
     29.3.3.2. A symbol shall illustrate the type of hazard, potential consequences or evasive/
     avoidance actions needed and be compatible with the word message(s).
     29.3.3.3. Well designed safety symbols cross language and literacy barriers and
     communicate hazard information quickly. Although standards allow for word-messages-
     only, safety symbols are encouraged when practical. Figure 29.6 and Figure 29.7 show
     examples of signs with pictographs and messages.
     29.3.3.4. Multi-lingual signs. The effectiveness of word-only signs is complicated by
     workers whose native language is not English. Whenever possible, use international signs
     and ensure all workers understand warnings. If additional languages are needed on safety
     signs, it is strongly encouraged to use symbols, in addition to words, to better
     communicate hazard information across language barriers.
  29.3.4. Criteria for Warning Colors. Safety color coding for warning signs and markers helps
  alert persons to the presence of hazards. Refer to Table 29.6 and 29.7 for examples of color
  use. Color specifications in this standard are IAW 29 CFR 1910.144. and 29 CFR 1910.145.
     29.3.4.1. Black or White. Black or white lettering provides contrast with basic warning
     and cautionary colors. Black lettering shall be used on a yellow, white or orange
     background. White lettering shall be used on a red, green or black background.
     29.3.4.2. Green. Green shall be the basic color for safety and first-aid equipment
     locations. Solid green, green and white stripes, green cross on white background, or white
     cross on green background can be used. Green is also used for identifying compressed
     gas cylinders and piping systems containing oxidizing materials.
     29.3.4.3. Magenta. Magenta is used to letter piping systems containers, housings,
     equipment, etc., containing radioactive substances. Approved tags and signs exhibiting
     the standard, 3-bladed magenta radiation symbol on a yellow background shall be used to
     identify the nature and magnitude of the radiation hazard, together with specific hazard
     control instructions.
     29.3.4.4. Orange. Orange, with the exception of fluorescent orange or orange-red used to
     designate biohazards, shall be used to designate electrical conduit and unguarded,
     dangerous parts of machines or energized equipment which may cut, crush, shock or
558                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      otherwise injure, and to emphasize such hazards when equipment guards are open or
      removed.
      29.3.4.5. Red. Red shall be used to mark danger and stop.
      29.3.4.6. Yellow. Yellow shall be used to designate caution, flammable materials and to
      mark physical hazards, such as strike against, stumble, trip, fall and caught-between
      types.
      29.3.4.7. Solid Yellow, Yellow and Black Stripes, and Yellow and Black Checks. These
      colors and color combinations may be used interchangeably. Using combination colors
      creates the most attention for housekeeping or aisle markings.
  29.3.5. Types of Signs - Color Identification, and Use. Note: For laser hazard warning signs
  and labels refer to AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, and ANSI
  Z136.1-2007, Standard for the Safe Use of Lasers. DoDI 6055.1., DoD Safety and
  Occupational Health (SOH) Program, outlines the military exemption for laser HAZCOM.
      29.3.5.1. Signs For Fire Hazards of Materials. A standardized system exists for
      identifying the hazards of materials. Explained in detail in NFPA 704, Standard System
      for the Identification of the Hazards of Material for Emergency Response, and used by
      CONUS installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flights, it uses three categories:
      health hazard, flammability hazard and reactivity hazard. This simple, readily recognized
      and easily understood system provides general information on the hazards of a material
      and the severity of these hazards to emergency responses. The installation FES Flight can
      provide additional information on fire hazards of materials.
      29.3.5.2. Signs and Symbols Used to Identify Explosive Materials. The AF and North
      Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) identifies items and substances assigned to United
      Nations (UN) dangerous goods Class I (explosives, munitions, propellants and
      pyrotechnics) according to the hazard they present IAW AFMAN 91-201, Explosives
      Safety Standard.
      29.3.5.3. AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard. The Notice of Hazard is considered a sign. It
      is posted at or near the identified hazard until the hazard is corrected. Standard colors for
      these signs are black letters on a white background with a red border.
      29.3.5.4. Asbestos Warning Signs. Asbestos warning signs shall meet requirements of 29
      CFR 1910.1001, Asbestos.
      29.3.5.5. Lead Warning Signs. Lead warning signs shall meet requirements of 29 CFR
      1910.1025, Lead.
      29.3.5.6. Danger Signs. Danger signs shall indicate an immediate hazard. The sign shall
      be red, black and white as shown in Figure 29.1 and sized IAW Table 29.1 Examples of
      messages for Danger signs are shown in Table 29.7
      29.3.5.7. Warning Signs. Warning signs shall be used to warn of hazards which could
      cause damage to equipment, death or serious injury to personnel. Warnings represent a
      hazard level between ―Danger‖ and ―Caution.‖ The sign shall be orange and black and
      designed as in Figure 29.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       559



     29.3.5.8. Caution Signs. Caution signs shall be used to warn of potential hazards. The
     sign shall be yellow and black and designed as in Figure 29.3 with dimensions as given
     in Table 29.2
     29.3.5.9. Radio Frequency Radiation Warning Signs. Radio frequency radiation warning
     signs signify the presence of hazardous electromagnetic energy frequencies from 10
     megahertz to 100 gigahertz. These signs shall define specific radio frequency hazards and
     provide warning data or instructions about the hazard. ―WARNING - RADIO
     FREQUENCY HAZARD,‖ or appropriate instructional or warning statements, shall be
     inserted on the sign’s lower half of the triangle as specified in AFOSH Standard 48-9,
     Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program.
     29.3.5.10. Exit Signs. Exit signs shall clearly identify the means of egress from facilities
     when required. These signs shall conform to design and color requirements in ETL 99-4,
     Fire Protection Engineering Criteria - Emergency Lighting and Marking of Exits, and
     NFPA 101, The Life Safety Code, and have lettering on an opaque background. Each sign
     shall be provided with adequate lighting to illuminate the sign‘s surface. Incandescent
     lighting may be used in existing fixtures, but new internally illuminated exit signs shall
     be a light emitting diode (LED), electroluminescent (LEC), or cold cathode type.
     Illumination of exit signs shall be continuous whenever building occupancy may require
     the means of egress be available for use. Refer to UFC 3-600-01 for further guidance.
     Exit signs containing radioactive material shall not be procured.
     29.3.5.11. Directional Signs. Directional signs, other than emergency exit signs, indicate
     the way to stairways, medical offices, health stations, emergency showers, etc., and shall
     be designed IAW UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard.
     29.3.5.12. Instruction and Identification Signs. Instruction and identification signs,
     designed IAW UFC 3-120-01, shall be used to convey general instructions or identify
     PPE or systems.
     29.3.5.13. Biological Hazard Signs. Biological hazard signs shall signify the actual or
     potential presence of a biological hazard and identify equipment, containers, rooms,
     experimental animals, etc., which contain or are contaminated with viable hazardous
     agents. The sign symbol shall be the standard fluorescent orange or orange-red color,
     with background color optional, provided there is sufficient contrast to clearly define the
     symbol. The symbol may be used on signs, warning tags or identification labels along
     with appropriate wording to indicate the nature or identity of the hazard. Wording shall
     include precautionary information and the name or job classification of the individual
     responsible (such as chemical or laboratory supervisor) for control of the biological
     hazard, but this information shall not be superimposed on the symbol. These signs shall
     be designed IAW Figure 29.6 with letters sized IAW UFC 3-120-01.
     29.3.5.14. Ionizing Radiation Warning Signs, Placards and Forms. Refer to AFI 48-148,
     Ionizing Radiation Protection, AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the U.S.
     Air Force, and 10 CFR 20, Standards for Protection Against Radiation.
  29.3.6. Electrical equipment labeling and placarding shall comply with UFC 3-560-01,
  Electrical Safety O&M.
 560                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


29.4. AF Form 1118 and AF Form 979.
   29.4.1. Use AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard, to post notices for facilities or AF Form 979,
   Danger Tag, for equipment. Note: AF Form 979 may be used temporarily until an AF Form
   1118 is issued.
   29.4.2. AF Forms 1118 are issued only by Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE to
   permanently identify a hazardous condition that could result in serious injury, disability or
   death. These 8‖ x 10‖ red bordered forms (Figure 29.9) identify hazardous conditions, any
   interim control measures in effect and permanent corrective actions underway or
   programmed. AF Forms 1118 are issued for hazards assigned a Risk Assessment Code
   (RAC) of 1, 2 or 3. See AFI 91-202 for instructions on RACs and preparing the AF Form
   1118.
       29.4.2.1. Once issued, the AF Form 1118 shall be posted by the workplace supervisor as
       near as possible to the hazard. In areas where this is not practical, the AF Form 1118 shall
       be posted in a prominent location visible to all affected workers and shall remain posted
       until the hazardous condition is abated, or for three (3) days, whichever is greater.
       Removal is authorized only after correction of hazard and verification by the issuing
       authority.
   29.4.3. The AF Form 979, Danger Tag, a temporary means of identifying hazardous
   conditions, can be issued by the supervisor as an interim device until an AF Form 1118 is
   posted. The Danger Tag provides a means for supervisors to immediately alert workers to
   existing and/or potential hazards. The AF Form 979 may be removed once an AF Form 1118
   is posted.
29.5. Specifications For and Use of Safety, Fire Prevention and Health Tags.
   29.5.1. Tags are a temporary means of warning workers of hazardous conditions, defective
   equipment, etc., including hazards that are out of the ordinary, unexpected or not readily
   apparent. Tags are not a complete warning method and shall only be used until a positive
   means can be used to eliminate the hazard. For example, a ―Do Not Start‖ tag is affixed to a
   machine until the machine can be locked out, de-energized or inactivated. ―Do Not Start‖
   tags shall be placed in conspicuous locations and, if possible, block the starting mechanism
   that would cause hazardous conditions if equipment was energized.
       29.5.1.1. Supervisors shall ensure workers are informed of the meaning of the various
       tags used throughout the workplace and what special precautions are necessary.
       29.5.1.2. Tags shall be affixed as close as safely possible to their respective hazards by a
       positive means such as string, wire or adhesive that prevents their loss or unintentional
       removal.
       29.5.1.3. Tags shall be used until the identified hazard is eliminated or hazardous
       operation is completed.
   29.5.2. All safety tags shall contain a signal word and a major message such as ―DANGER,‖
   ―WARNING,‖ ―CAUTION‖ or ―BIOHAZARD.‖
       29.5.2.1. Danger tags shall only be used where an immediate hazard (RAC 1 through 3)
       exists and specific precautions are required to protect personnel or property or when
       required by TOs or other manuals. RACs assigned by the installation Ground Safety
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        561



       office, FES Flight or BE shall be included in the ―Hazard‖ description block on the front
       side of the tag.
       29.5.2.2. Warning tags shall identify items which could cause damage to equipment or
       death or serious injury to personnel. Some events that pose a hazard to personnel and
       equipment can also be identified/classified as a warning. Warnings represent a hazard
       level between ―Caution‖ and ―Danger.‖ When in doubt, contact the unit supervisor or
       installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE for guidance on the appropriate tag to
       use.
       29.5.2.3. Caution tags shall only be used where a hazard can damage equipment, or a
       non-immediate, potential hazard or unsafe practice presents a lesser threat of worker
       injury.
       29.5.2.4. Biohazard tags shall identify the actual or potential presence of a biological
       hazard and to identify equipment, containers, rooms, experimental animals or
       combinations thereof, that contain or are contaminated with hazardous biological agents.
       29.5.2.5. Other tags may be used in addition to those required or in situations that do not
       require tags, provided they do not detract from the impact or visibility of the signal word
       and major message of any required tags.
   29.5.3. Major messages shall indicate the specific hazardous condition or the instruction
   being communicated to workers. Major messages shall be presented in pictographs, written
   text or both. The major message portion of a tag‘s inscription shall be more specific than the
   signal word. Example: ―High Voltage,‖ ―Do Not Start,‖ etc., or a corresponding pictograph
   used with a written text or alone.
   29.5.4. Signal words, used to call attention to the tag and designate the level of hazard
   seriousness, shall be readable at a minimum distance of five feet (1.52m) or a greater
   distance if warranted by the hazard.
   29.5.5. Recommended Color Coding. While not mandatory, colors may be used on accident
   prevention tags. Color schemes should follow standard color schemes of signs. OSHA
   recommends the following color scheme:
DANGER – Red, or predominately red, with lettering or symbols in a contrasting color.
WARNING – Orange, or predominately orange, with lettering or symbols in a contrasting color.
CAUTION – Yellow, or predominately yellow, with lettering or symbols in a contrasting color.
BIOHAZARD – Fluorescent orange or orange-red, or predominately so, with lettering or
symbols in a contrasting color.
29.6. General Requirements for Use of Tags.
   29.6.1. The following apply to all Air Force tags prescribed by this standard. Requirements
   unique to a particular tag appear in the tag‘s instructions. All mishap prevention tags used to
   warn of specific hazards shall be standardized Air Force forms with no variation in design of
   tags.
       29.6.1.1. User Instructions. Workers shall immediately advise supervisors of unsafe
       conditions.
 562                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       29.6.1.2. Notification. Supervisors shall evaluate the situation, ensure an appropriate tag
       is attached, if needed, and coordinate placement of tags and assignment of RACs with the
       installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE, as appropriate. The supervisor, or
       person in charge at the time, is responsible for issuing tags; if unavailable, the worker
       shall contact the installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE, as appropriate.
       29.6.1.3. RACs shall be assigned by installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE,
       as appropriate. A RAC shall not be assigned to equipment issued during routine
       maintenance or servicing. For example, TO-directed tagging of the starter switch during
       engine maintenance does not require a RAC.
          29.6.1.3.1. Verification of RAC, when required by AFI 91-202, shall be
          accomplished as soon as possible and shall not exceed 10 days from hazard
          identification.
          29.6.1.3.2. Tag placement shall not be delayed awaiting RAC verification. Changing
          an initial tag from Danger to Caution, Out of Order, Do Not Start, etc., or vice-versa,
          is the responsibility of the supervisor upon verification of RAC by the installation
          Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE.
       29.6.1.4. Notification requirements do not apply when Danger tags are installed IAW
       applicable TOs, AF instructions or other directed requirements, including routine
       maintenance functions on aircraft or missile systems. For example, ground safety
       personnel need not be notified when tagging out the circuit breaker of an air compressor
       where the motor has been removed for bearing replacement, or when machines or
       equipment are locked out for maintenance or servicing.
       29.6.1.5. Equipment records, when maintained, shall be annotated to reflect current tag
       status. Tag logs may be maintained to identify tags currently in use in a work area.
       29.6.1.6. Local commanders shall implement internal procedures to ensure coordination
       of tags between supervisors and installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE.
       29.6.1.7. Removal of Danger and Caution Tags. The supervisor, with coordination from
       the installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE, as appropriate, is responsible for
       removing the tag after the hazardous condition has been corrected. Maintenance logs, if
       maintained, shall be annotated that the hazardous condition has been corrected and tag
       removed. The installation Ground Safety office shall be notified, during normal duty
       hours, that the tag has been removed. Notification shall not be later than the following
       duty day. Refer to paragraphs 29.7.2.1 and 29.7.2.2 for additional guidance.
29.7. Specific Requirements For Use of Tags. Tag Identification and Use. Mishap prevention
tags prescribed below (Danger, Caution, Out of Order and Do Not Start) meet requirements of
AFI 91-202 and 29 CFR 1910.145.
   29.7.1. AF Form 979, Danger Tag (Figure 29.10).
       29.7.1.1. Danger tags shall only be used where an immediate hazard (RAC 1 through 3)
       exists and specific precautions are required to protect personnel or property—or as
       required by TOs, AF instructions or other requirements.
       29.7.1.2. All workers shall be instructed that Danger tags indicate immediate danger and
       special precautions are necessary.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       563



     29.7.1.3. A Danger tag shall be placed on damaged equipment and immediate
     arrangements made to take the equipment out of service until repaired. Tag wording shall
     read, ―DO NOT USE THIS EQUIPMENT‖ or ―DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT, DO NOT
     USE.‖
     29.7.1.4. Removal. Only the worker, or their supervisor, responsible for installing the
     Danger tag may remove the tag only if the hazard has been abated. The installation
     Ground Safety office shall be notified of tag removal, during normal duty hours, no later
     than the following day.
         29.7.1.4.1. Removal of Danger tags prescribed by TOs or AF instructions for routine
         aircraft or missile/munitions maintenance actions need not be coordinated with the
         installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE. Refer to paragraphs 29.6.1.7 for
         additional information.
         29.7.1.4.2. Text and Reverse Side. Tag text shall be provided by, and reverse side
         completed by, the responsible on-duty supervisor. Refer to paragraph 29.7 for
         additional information.
  29.7.2. AF Form 980, Caution Tag (Figure 29.11).
     29.7.2.1. AF Form 980, Caution Tag, shall be used by any AF worker, in coordination
     with the work area or activity supervisor, only to warn against potential hazards, caution
     against unsafe practices and to prescribe precautions to protect personnel and property.
     Assignment of RAC shall be coordinated with the installation Ground Safety office, FES
     Flight or BE, as appropriate. Tags for routine maintenance actions, required by TOs or
     AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, need not be coordinated with Ground Safety
     office, FES Flight or BE.
     29.7.2.2. Removal. Caution tags shall only be removed by the work area or activity
     supervisor when the hazard is abated. If tag placement was coordinated with the
     installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE, the supervisor shall coordinate with
     these agencies prior to removal.
     29.7.2.3. Text and Reverse Side. Tag text shall be provided by, and the reverse side
     completed by, the responsible on-duty supervisor. Refer to paragraph 29.7 for additional
     information.
  29.7.3. AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag (Figure 29.12). Out of Order tags shall only be
  used to indicate a piece of equipment, machinery, utility or system is out of order and its use
  might be hazardous. If reparable, a TO prescribed green tag may be used in place of the AF
  Form 981.
     29.7.3.1. Applicable equipment records, when available, shall be annotated in addition to
     completing the Out of Order tag. The energy source shall be locked out per Chapter 21,
     Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), if turning on the equipment could
     result in an injury or damage
     29.7.3.2. Removal. Out of Order tags shall only be removed by the supervisor assuming
     responsibility for the tag after the hazard is corrected.
 564                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       29.7.3.3. Text and Reverse Side. Tag text shall be provided by, and reverse side
       completed by, the responsible on-duty supervisor. Refer to paragraph 29.8 for additional
       information.
   29.7.4. AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag (Figure 29.13).
       29.7.4.1. AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag, shall only be used to alert personnel of
       hazards associated with restarting the equipment and only for a very short time until the
       energy isolating device can be locked out. Do Not Start tags shall be placed in
       conspicuous locations or in a manner that they effectively block the starting mechanism
       should the equipment be energized.
          29.7.4.1.1. The Do Not Start tag may be used in conjunction with AF Form 979,
          Danger tag. If a Danger tag is attached to equipment, it is not always necessary use a
          Do Not Start tag. It is the on-duty supervisor‘s responsibility to attach the Do Not
          Start tag on the equipment in question. If in doubt, contact the installation Ground
          Safety office, FES Flight or BE, as appropriate.
       29.7.4.2. Removal. Do Not Start tags shall be removed by the supervisor only after the
       condition has been corrected.
       29.7.4.3. Text and Reverse Side. The text shall be provided by, and reverse side
       completed by, the responsible on-duty supervisor. Refer to paragraph 29.8 for additional
       information.
29.8. Guidance for Completing Reverse Side of AF Forms 979, 980 and 982 (Figure 29.10 ,
29.11 and 29.13).
   29.8.1. Shop supervisors shall ensure workers are trained to properly fill out reverse side of
   AF Forms 979, 980 and 982.
   29.8.2. Installation or Facility. Name of installation, facility or annex where form will be
   used.
   29.8.3. Safe Clearance Number. Used for electrical work procedures. Refer to AFI 32-1064.
   29.8.4. Line or Equipment Involved. A brief description of equipment or machine involved.
   Refer to AFI 32-1064 for additional information.
   29.8.5. Abnormal or Special Conditions. For electrical work procedures. Refer to AFI 32-
   1064.
   29.8.6. Time and Date. Self-explanatory. Time shall consist of local time in hours and
   minutes. Date shall include day, month and year.
   29.8.7. Name, Organization, and Phone Number. Print name of supervisor placing tag and
   see AFI 32-1064 for information required of individual directing placement of tags.
29.9. Guidance for Completing Reverse Side of AF Form 981 (Figure 29.12 ).
   29.9.1. Shop supervisors shall ensure shop personnel are trained to properly fill out the
   reverse side of AF Forms 981.
   29.9.2. Part I, items 1 through 4, shall be completed by the individual who identified the
   hazard. Part II, items 5 through 7, shall be completed by the responsible supervisor.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        565



   29.9.3. MAJCOMs may supplement these procedures as needed. Prior to completing Part II,
   the supervisor shall coordinate situations requiring over 30 calendar days to correct with the
   responsible functional manager (refer to AFI 91-202). Hazards assigned RAC 1, 2 or 3
   requiring over 30 calendar days to correct shall be entered in the installation‘s formal hazard
   abatement plan using AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan, and may require posting an AF
   Form 1118.
   29.9.4. Time. Self-explanatory.
   29.9.5. Date. Self-explanatory.
   29.9.6. Shop or Office symbol. Example: 36 ABW/LGMM.
   29.9.7. Grade, Name, and Phone. Print grade, name and phone number of person placing the
   tag. Example: TSgt J. Smith, 1810. Add supervisor‘s name and phone number underneath.
   29.9.8. Risk Assessment Category (RAC). Include hazard severity and mishap probability.
   Example: RAC 2 (IIB) coordinated with Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE.
   29.9.9. Verification Date. Date verified by Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE.
   29.9.10. Functional Manager Number. Functional manager number assigned on AF Form 3.
   Example: 36 ABW/LGM. Refer to AFI 91-202 for additional guidance. Note 1: Items 8, 9
   and 10 may be left blank. Note 2: When AF Forms 979, 980 and 982 are used by CE
   personnel IAW AFI 32-1064, coordination and notification with installation Ground Safety
   office, FES Flight and BE is not required.

Figure 29.1. Danger Sign.




Note 1: Upper panel: DANGER in white within a red oval outlined in white on a black
rectangular background.
Note 2: Lower panel: Words and/or symbols in black or red on a white background.

Figure 29.2. Warning Sign.




Note 1: Upper panel: WARNING in orange within a black rectangle on an orange background.
Note 2: Lower panel: Words and/or symbols in black on an orange background.
 566                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 29.3. Caution Sign.




Note 1: Upper panel: CAUTION in yellow within a black rectangle on a yellow background.
Note 2: Lower panel: Words and/or symbols in black on a yellow background.

Figure 29.4. Directional Signs.




Note 1: Upper panel: White arrow on black background.
Note 2: Lower panel: Black letters on white background.

Figure 29.5. Instruction and Identification Signs.




Note: White lettering on green background (preferably).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                       567



Figure 29.6. Examples of Symbol/Pictograph with a Major Message.




Figure 29.7. Examples of Signs with Symbols/Pictographs and Message Panel.
 568                                                            AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012




Figure 29.8. Standard Biological Hazard Symbol.




Note 1: Upper panel: WARNING in orange within a black rectangle on an orange background.
Note 2: Lower panel: Words and symbols in black on an orange background.

Figure 29.9. AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                569



Figure 29.10. AF Form 979, Danger Tag.




Note: The AF Form 979, Danger Tag, and AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag, have the same
reverse side (will be fixed when reprinted).

Figure 29.11. AF Form 980, Caution Tag.
 570                                                           AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 29.12. AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag.




Figure 29.13. AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag.




Note: The AF Form 979, Danger Tag, and AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag, have the same
reverse side (will be fixed when reprinted).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        571



Table 29.1. Standard Criteria & Proportions for Locally Manufactured Signs (Letter Size
Versus Legibility Distance).




Note: Whenever possible, commercially manufactured signs shall be procured. When it is
necessary to locally manufacture signs, the following criteria and proportions are recommended.
1.     Crowding of letters and words reduces legibility and shall be avoided.
2.     A rule-of-thumb of 35-40 feet viewing distance per inch of letter height may be used.
3.     Above letter size versus legibility distance values assume at least 20/40 visual acuity of
       viewer, adequate lighting of sign and does not include allowance for color combinations.

Table 29.2. Standard Proportions for Danger Signs.
 572                                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 29.3. Standard Proportions for Caution Signs.




Table 29.4. Standard Proportions for Instruction and Identification Signs.
              Standard Proportions for Instruction and Identification Signs
 Sign Size, Inches/    Height of         Height of         Height of         Maximum Space
 Height/Width          Letters, Inches   Letters, Inches   Letters, Inches   Available for Sign
                       For One Line      For Two Lines     For Three Lines   Wording, Inches/
                                                                             Height/Width
 Horizontal
 7 x 10                3                 1½                1½                6x9
 10 x 14               6                 2½                2                 9 x 13
 9 x 20                3                 2½                1½                8 x 19
 14 x 20               N/A               3                 3                 13 x 19
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                    573



Table 29.5. Standard Proportions for Directional Signs.
 574                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 29.6. Examples of Color Applications.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                         575



Table 29.7. Examples of Wording for Mishap Prevention Signs.
 576                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


29.10. Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It,
like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter.
Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs,
FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command
or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   29.10.1. Is an adequate supply of safety signs and tags available for use? Reference 29.2.4
   29.10.2. Do exit signs clearly identify the means of egress from facilities? Reference
   29.3.5.10
   29.10.3. Are tags used as intended, as a temporary means of warning workers of hazardous
   conditions, defective equipment, etc.? Reference 29.5.1
   29.10.4. Do supervisors coordinate placement of tags and assignment of RACs, with the
   installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight or BE, as appropriate? Reference 29.6.1.2
   29.10.5. Is verification of a RAC, when required by AFI 91-202, accomplished as soon as
   possible but not later than 10 days from hazard identification? Reference 29.6.1.3.1
   29.10.6. Are AF Forms 979, Danger Tag, used only to identify immediate danger
   situations? Reference 29.7.1.1
   29.10.7. Are AF Forms 980, Caution Tag, used to identify or warn of potential hazards?
   Reference 29.7.2.1
   29.10.8. Are AF Forms 981, Out of Order Tag, used to warn of a hazard if the equipment,
   machinery, tool, utility or system is used? Reference 29.7.3
   29.10.9. Are AF Forms 982, Do Not Start Tag, used to warn personnel of a potential hazard
   if equipment is restarted? Reference 29.7.4.1
   29.10.10. Do shop supervisors ensure their personnel are trained to properly fill out the
   reverse side of AF Forms 979, 980, 981 and 982? Reference 29.8.1 and 29.9.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         577



                                          Chapter 30

    COMMUNICATION CABLE, ANTENNA AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS

30.1. General Information.
   30.1.1. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping shall be maintained, with all flammable wastes
   disposed of in approved self-closing metal waste containers. At the end of each day or shift,
   these containers shall be emptied or removed to an approved location outside the shop for
   pickup and disposal. If solvents are required, use only approved and authorized solvents.
   Provide adequate ventilation IAW MIL-HDBK-1190, Facility Planning and Design Guide.
   Storage is not allowed in electrical and/or electronic areas. Storage is only permitted in areas
   approved by the installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight. Consult BE for guidance
   on safe use of solvents and the adequacy of the ventilation system, and the installation
   Environmental Management office for waste disposal guidance. Refer to Chapter 5,
   Housekeeping, for additional guidance and information.
   30.1.2. Food and beverages shall not be stored or consumed in the immediate area of
   communications equipment where spills or foreign particles could present a hazard to
   personnel or cause damage to equipment.
   30.1.3. Electromagnetic Interference Sensitive Medical Implants. Workers with pacemakers
   and other electrically active implanted medical devices must not be allowed to work in areas
   where the function of their device may be adversely affected by exposure to known non-
   ionizing radiation or electromagnetic fields. All communications equipment workers should
   be made aware of this requirement. If there are questions, refer the worker for a medical
   assessment, in coordination with BE.
30.2. Specific Hazards.
   30.2.1. Electrical Hazards.
      30.2.1.1. Shock. The severity of electric shock is determined by the amount of current
      flowing through the body, the time of exposure, and the body‘s physical condition.
      Normally, any voltage capable of producing a current flow of 50 milliamperes or more
      through the body can cause a shock that may result in cardiac arrest. Any individual
      receiving an electric shock will seek immediate medical attention. Some effects of
      electrical exposure to the body are:
          30.2.1.1.1. Contraction of the chest muscles, which may interfere with breathing to
          such an extent that death will result from asphyxiation with prolonged exposure.
          30.2.1.1.2. Temporary paralysis of the nerve center, which may result in failure of
          respiration, a condition which often continues long after the victim is freed from the
          circuit.
          30.2.1.1.3. Ventricular fibrillation, an irregular and erratic heartbeat, which may
          result in cardiac arrest.
          30.2.1.1.4. Serious internal injuries to nerve and bone can occur with the passage of
          electrical current through limbs. Externally, apparent damage does not always appear
578                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         severe. If pain, loss of sensation or function occur, seek medical attention
         immediately.
      30.2.1.2. Arcing. When a metal object, such as a tool, comes in contact with an electric
      current, it will become a conductor. The electric current may result in an arc, which may
      cause serious burns to the body and temporary or permanent blindness.
      30.2.1.3. Other. A natural reaction after making contact with an electric current or seeing
      an arc is to push oneself away from the source. This can result in falls or abrupt contact
      with fixed objects causing serious or fatal injuries.
  30.2.2. Climbing Hazards. The primary hazards associated with climbing are falls and
  contact with electrical systems. Examples of climbing hazards include:
      30.2.2.1. Pole conditions such as knots, knotholes, cracks, excessive gaff marks, crooked
      or raked poles, splinters, ice on poles and heavily creosoted or arsenic-treated poles.
      30.2.2.2. Pole attachments such as conduits, molding, cable and ground wire, strain
      plates, signboards, nails and metal pole numbers.
      30.2.2.3. Tower conditions such as cracks, rust, corrosion, loose/missing hardware, ice
      on climbing surfaces, bent/broken steps, improper grounding, dirt and excessive grease
      and oil.
      30.2.2.4. Improper clothing such as badly worn shoes (e.g., loose heels, thin soles), low-
      cut shoes, trouser legs not folded properly under climbing irons and jackets too loose or
      too long.
      30.2.2.5. Equipment items that do not fit properly, such as loose, short or dull gaffs;
      climber straps too tight, too loose, too long or broken; or the wrong sized climbers.
      30.2.2.6. Failure to follow approved methods for climbing and working on poles and
      tower structures.
      30.2.2.7. Wearing climbers while working on wooden poles and tower structures.
      30.2.2.8. Failure to maintain good physical condition.
  30.2.3. Radiation Hazards.
      30.2.3.1. Non-ionizing Radiation. Non-ionizing radiation produces heat in body tissues.
      Absorption by the body is both frequency and body-shape dependent. Thus, it is possible
      for a person to selectively absorb damaging amounts of non-ionizing radiation in deep
      tissue and organs with little or no sensation of skin heating. Refer to AFOSH Standard
      48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, and 29 CFR 1910.97,
      Nonionizing Radiation, for additional guidance on management of hazards associated
      with non-ionizing radiation.
      30.2.3.2. Ionizing Radiation. Radioactive material contained in electron tubes presents
      no significant hazard as long as the tube is intact. The level of radiation from a small
      number of electron tubes at maintenance shops does not approach a dangerous level;
      however, at major supply points, the storage of large quantities of radioactive tubes in a
      relatively small area may create a hazard. Further, a broken radioactive tube is potentially
      hazardous since the radioactive material may be inhaled or ingested. Radio frequency
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     579



     generators such as certain klystrons, thyratrons, magnetrons, transmit-receive tubes and
     similar high voltage devices emit ionizing radiation. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.1096,
     Ionizing Radiation, for additional guidance .
     30.2.3.3. Electron Tubes. Many electron tubes such as spark gap, glow lamp, cold
     cathode, transmit-receiver and anti-transmit-receiver contain radioactive materials. The
     amount of radioactive material is such that no significant external radiation hazard is
     present when the items are handled singly or in small numbers. However, breakage of
     one or more may present a potential hazard to personnel in the area. Broken tubes may
     release radioactive material that may be ingested or inhaled by exposed personnel.
     Radioactive material may also contaminate exposed skin or clothing. If breakage does
     occur, do not touch the tube or the immediate area. Seek immediate medical attention if
     personnel are exposed to broken electron tube material. Notify the immediate supervisor
     plus the installation Radiation Safety Officer. Carefully handle tubes and ensure they are
     packaged correctly to prevent breakage. The use of cushioning material is necessary.
     Leave tubes in the packing, shipping or storage container and remove them just prior to
     installation. Control of the disposition operations, i.e., packaging, marking, identifying
     temporary storage and shipping, is the responsibility of assigned radiological monitors
     with guidance from the installation Radiation Safety Officer.
     30.2.3.4. Chemical. Chemicals used in conjunction with communications equipment
     maintenance can present health hazards due to skin contact and/or inhalation of toxic
     vapors. Disposal of hazardous waste will be coordinated with the host installation
     environmental management office. Note:         Ensure all personnel receive hazard
     communication training IAW AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, and have access to
     material safety data sheets (MSDS) for chemicals used in work processes. Refer to CFR
     1910.1200, Hazard Communication, for additional guidance.
  30.2.4. Fabrication with Lead. Maintain a clean working area free of combustible materials.
  Ensure fire extinguishers are accessible in the work area. Set lead pots on a noncombustible
  level surface to prevent turnover and do not leave them unattended. Do not drop cold lead or
  any cold liquid into molten lead. This action may cause splashing, rapid separation and
  serious burns. Wear a face shield or safety goggles and gloves when fabricating in place.
  Ensure the work area is well ventilated IAW the requirements in the BE OEH risk
  assessment and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
  Operations and Maintenance. Consult with the installation Public Health office or BE for
  appropriate training on working with lead and to determine if medical examinations are
  required.
  30.2.5. Compressed Gases. When using or transporting compressed gas cylinders (such as
  dry nitrogen cylinders) in a horizontal position, special compartments, racks or adequate
  blocking shall be provided to prevent cylinder movement and the cylinders shall be secured
  with safety straps or chains. Regulators shall be removed and safety caps installed before a
  cylinder is transported or when not in use.
     30.2.5.1. Compressed gas cylinders shall be kept away from excessive heat and protected
     from direct rays of the sun, and shall not be stored where they might be damaged or
     knocked over by passing or falling objects. Cylinders shall be secured and stored at least
 580                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       50 feet away from combustible materials. Refer to TO 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders Use,
       Handling, and Maintenance, for additional information.
       30.2.5.2. Cylinders shall be stored and used in a vertical position only, valve-end up.
       30.2.5.3. Dispose of compressed gas cylinders in a manner consistent with approved
       hazardous waste disposal procedures and applicable environmental regulations. Contact
       the installation Environmental Management office for guidance.
30.3. General Safety Practices.
   30.3.1. Safety-related work practices shall be employed to prevent electric shock or other
   injuries resulting from the direct or indirect electrical contacts, when work is performed near
   or on equipment or circuits which are or may be energized. Specific safety-related work
   practices shall be consistent with the nature and extent of the associated electrical hazards
   and comply with Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout),
   requirements. Workers near exposed electrical circuits or maintenance and installation
   activities, regardless of location, shall not wear rings, watches or other conductive objects
   that may increase the shock risk or be the source of potentially severe burns when energized.
   Do not use or carry in pockets metallic measuring rules, tools or metal-cased objects. Metal-
   framed eyeglasses may be worn if secured with a nonmetallic cord to prevent them from
   falling into an energized circuit. Additionally, avoid working in wet clothes. Never attempt
   adjustments on a potential ground when any portion of the body may come into contact with
   equipment frames or other ground connections. Recommend placing one hand in a pocket or
   under a layer of clothing while making adjustments on energized circuits, except where use
   of both hands is necessary to perform the work.
   30.3.2. Two qualified technicians or one qualified technician and one safety observer will
   work together when exposed to high voltage of 600 volts, nominal, or more or current flow
   of 50 milliamperes or more. All necessary PPE and special tools shall be available and used.
   30.3.3. Protect the hearing of assigned personnel by ensuring protective engineering
   controls, administrative controls and PPE are used correctly by all workers; ensure workplace
   complies with all OSHA, DoD and Air Force Hearing Conservation Program requirements.
   When exposed to potentially hazardous noise levels, consult BE for guidance on hearing
   protection. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation
   Program, for additional information.
   30.3.4. Supervisors shall consult installation medical services personnel to determine if first
   aid equipment should be available and determine the type and quantity of supplies needed.
   30.3.5. Electrical circuits shall always be de-energized and locked and tagged out before
   attempting any work, unless the nature of the work requires the circuits remain energized. Do
   not rely on safety devices such as interlocks, high voltage disconnect relays, or automatic
   circuit grounds. Each of these is subject to failure. When working on exposed circuits of 50
   volts or more, arc-fault protective clothing shall be worn IAW UFC 3-560-01, Electrical
   Safety, O&M.
   30.3.6. All workers, including safety observers, will know the location and on-off operation
   of the power distribution panels, power control switches and stations, and electrical danger
   areas in their work area. This knowledge is essential to de-energize equipment in the event of
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       581



  a fire or accidental electrical contact. In addition, emphasis shall be placed on the need to
  maintain clear, unrestricted access to these controls at all times. Workers will open and close
  all equipment switches quickly and positively. The doors to high voltage racks shall be
  closed at all times except for authorized maintenance and repairs.
  30.3.7. Interlocks shall not be permanently disconnected or bypassed. Interlocks can be
  disconnected during maintenance or adjustments only when prescribed by applicable TOs.
  During these periods, AFVA 91-305, DANGER—INTERLOCKS DISABLED, or a sign, either
  locally manufactured or the nearest commercially available equivalent, shall be placed on the
  equipment or nearest available equipment. If the equipment has a defective interlock, all
  workers shall be made aware of the hazardous condition, and a warning sign or tag shall be
  posted on the equipment.
  30.3.8. Grounded railings, barriers or enclosures shall be used to protect workers from shock
  resulting from contact with conductors, bus bars, switches, control panels, etc. All contacts,
  terminals, and devices having voltages between 50 and 599 volts RMS or DC with respect to
  ground will have barriers or guards to prevent accidental contact by personnel. Holes in the
  barrier may be provided for maintenance testing. Assemblies operating at potentials in excess
  of 600 volts RMS or DC shall be completely enclosed from the remainder of the assembly.
  The barrier, guard, or enclosure shall be marked to indicate the approximate highest normal
  voltage (nearest round number) which may be encountered upon its removal.
  30.3.9. Suitable eye protection shall be worn during unpacking, removal and installation of
  transformers, capacitors and diode stacks or when the potential for exposure to arc flash
  exists. Workers shall be especially watchful for any sign of oil or fluid leakage, as it is
  possible this oil or fluid is Askarel. Askarel, used for many years as a dielectric, contains
  high concentrations of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), which is extremely toxic. Any sign
  of leakage from components mentioned above shall be reported to the nearest BE and
  Environmental Management office. Workers shall not touch or disturb the leaking fluid
  without the approval of the appropriate medical activity.
  30.3.10. Safety Observers. When installing or repairing C&I systems, communication cables
  and antenna systems that may expose workers to energized equipment, high voltage circuits,
  600 volts or above, or low voltage power if it has a high current flow, work shall not begin
  until a qualified safety observer is present. An individual shall not be assigned other duties
  while serving as safety observer. Normally, the supervisor is also the safety observer.
  30.3.10.l.   When repairing or troubleshooting energized high voltage communications
  equipment, the safety observer does not have to be proficient in the task being observed.
     30.3.10.2. Safety observers shall be trained IAW paragraph 30.4.1, current in CPR
     procedures and familiar with local installation procedures to obtain medical assistance.
     30.3.10.3. While the task is being performed, the safety observer shall stand where he or
     she can plainly see all personnel who are working on the equipment, have access to the
     main power switch, and give a positive warning of potential danger to anyone
     approaching the equipment. If unable to maintain visual contact with the main power
     switch, the lockout and/or tagout procedure shall be used. Additionally, the safety
     observer will have ready access to safety equipment when high voltage is involved.
582                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      30.3.10.4. When performing aerial work on communication cable and antenna systems,
      safety observers must be qualified to operate the equipment in use and shall have a
      current climbing aerial rescue certification, be proficient in CPR and administering
      emergency first aid treatment that involves control of bleeding, shock, open wounds and
      burns and procedures for obtaining medical assistance.
      30.3.10.5. Ensure a means of communication is available in remote locations.
  30.3.11. Provide the installation FES Flight and the emergency response units with maps
  indicting routes to locations of remote sites. Where practical, establish a letter of agreement
  with the installation FES Flight and emergency rescue units to conduct actual tests to
  evaluate the route suitability and response times. Ensure all areas containing flammable
  materials have appropriate fire prevention signs posted and fire extinguishers available.
  Note: Off-base facilities/sites shall coordinate and plan with the nearest local area medical
  facility for emergency medical services, if the host installation medical facility is too far to
  provide immediate emergency medical attention.
  30.3.12. Ensure all grounding of electrical and electronic equipment is sized IAW NFPA 70,
  National Electrical Code. Where possible, use a copper strap or heavy gauge copper wire as
  the ground connection. Ensure water or cooling pipes meet the requirements of UFC 3-520-
  01, Interior Electrical Systems, AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, and NFPA 70, NEC
  250.52(A)(I). Never use nonmetallic water or cooling pipes as the grounding electrode.
  Where equipment is installed to meet red and/or black criteria, ensure grounding of the
  electrical and electronic equipment follows the applicable installation requirements in the
  National Agency Communications Security (COMSEC) Installation Manual (NACSIM)
  5203, Guidelines for Facility Design and RED/BLACK Installation, National Security
  Agency. Do not fill ground strap ends with solder to facilitate clamping, as the solder may
  melt and leave a loose connection, thus defeating the ground. Install an earth electrode
  subsystem, consisting of a ring ground or interconnected ground rods, for lightning
  protection purposes and for grounding of all communications systems equipment utilizing
  high voltages. If possible, provide duplicate bleeder circuits on high voltage capacitors to
  reduce the voltage to a non-hazardous level as rapidly as practical. Dual resistor banks are
  recommended.
  30.3.13. Grounding or Shorting Sticks. Electronic equipment with high voltage shall have
  grounding sticks installed for discharging capacitors in case of automatic discharge circuit
  failure. They shall be used to check for and discharge residual and stray high voltage. Where
  physical size precludes using a permanently attached grounding or shorting stick, a portable
  grounding or shorting stick shall be used. At least one grounding stick shall be provided at
  every communications equipment area and shall be supplied in addition to any that may be
  included as integral components of electronics equipment. If an electrical safety board is
  utilized, the grounding stick provided with the electrical safety board shall suffice if readily
  accessible.
  30.3.14. Grounding and Bonding. Most electricians and electronics workers consider the
  ground to be a stake or other direct connection into the ground (earth) to which the electrical
  system of the facility is connected. In a two-wire electrical cord, there is a neutral or ground
  wire and a hot wire. The neutral or ground wire for the system shall be white. The other wire
  is the hot wire and it may be any color other than white or green. In a three-wire system, the
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        583



  third wire is the ground wire and it is always green or green with one or more yellow stripes.
  Bonding, on the other hand, consists of interconnecting two (2) or more pieces of conductive
  equipment with a suitable wire or strap to equalize the resistance and, in effect, make them as
  one piece of equipment as far as electrical potential is concerned. For specific guidance, refer
  to TO 31-10-24, Communications Systems Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding.
     30.3.14.1. Electrical and electronics equipment shall be grounded so a potential cannot
     exist between the unit and the ground. Fixed electrical equipment shall be electrically
     bonded to a grounding connector. Special protection shall be provided to safeguard
     grounding wires from mechanical damage. Metal workbenches and metal framed or
     legged workbenches used for repairing and testing of electronic equipment shall be
     grounded. The size and type of material for grounding conductors will be selected
     according to the NFPA 70, National Electric Code, Article 250, Grounding. All
     workbenches used for ―power on‖ maintenance of any electronic equipment shall be
     provided with a means for grounding the equipment. This shall be interconnected to the
     facility ground system.
     30.3.14.2. Grounding circuits, as a minimum, shall have a separate circuit for each
     chassis, cabinet and frame. Each chassis ground may terminate at its cabinet or frame
     ground. Additionally, ground circuits shall have a neutral circuit and connections that are
     mechanically secured by:
         30.3.14.2.1. A spot-welded terminal lug.
         30.3.14.2.2. A portion of the chassis or frame that has been identified as a grounding
         point.
         30.3.14.2.3. The use of a terminal on the ground wire by a lock washer and screw or
         a lock washer and nut.
         30.3.14.2.4. Grounding braids installed on panels and cabinets that are removable or
         hinged so bonding is not accomplished through hinges, slides or mounting hardware.
         Nonconductive panels and cabinets that are removable or hinged need not be
         equipped with grounding braids.
     30.3.14.3. System grounding within mobile equipment shall be by means of a grounding
     conductor. As these grounding conductors are replaced, they shall be of the appropriate
     gauge and shall have a green insulated cover.
     30.3.14.4. Bus bars shall be clean and free of corrosion, splices shall be tight, and paint
     shall be removed from all vertical angles at the point of attachment to the ground bus bar.
  30.3.15. Soldering Precautions. Ensure fire extinguishers are accessible in the soldering area.
  Remove combustible materials from the work area to prevent fires. Never sling excess solder
  from a soldering iron; wipe it off with a damp cloth or sponge. Always place the soldering
  iron in the proper holder when not in use, and never leave the iron plugged in and
  unattended.
     30.3.15.1. Wear a face shield or safety goggles when soldering. Normal prescription
     glasses or plain safety glasses may be used in place of safety goggles for light electronic
     equipment soldering.
 584                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       30.3.15.2. Ensure the work area where soldering is performed is well ventilated IAW the
       requirements in the BE OEH risk assessment and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A
       Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance. Ensure all power
       unit exhausts are vented to the building exterior. Use approved respiratory devices when
       working in permit-required confined spaces that are not adequately ventilated. Refer to
       AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, and Chapter 23, Confined
       Spaces, for additional guidance and information.
   30.3.16. Heaters and Torches Used in Ground and Aerial Tents. Flame-type heaters shall not
   be used within ground tents or on platforms within aerial tents unless the tent covers are
   constructed of fire-resistant materials and adequate ventilation is maintained. Torches may be
   used on aerial splicing platforms or in buckets enclosed by tents, provided the material is
   constructed of fire-resistant material and the torch is turned off when not in actual use. The
   tent shall be adequately ventilated while torch is in use.
30.4. Training.
   30.4.1. First Aid, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Bloodborne Pathogen (BBP)
   Training. Refer to paragraph 1.12 for guidance.
   30.4.2. Rescue Training.
       30.4.2.1. Climbing. Pole Top rescue shall only be attempted by personnel who are
       certified or in a training status under the supervision of an instructor. A record of
       climbing certification shall be maintained on AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification
       and Recurring Training, for military, and AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief, for
       civilian personnel, or an approved computer automated system. Personnel who have not
       climbed within the last 12 months as a part of their normal job will require refresher
       training under the supervision of a qualified instructor. The amount of training required
       shall be determined by the climbing instructor. Records shall be updated whenever re-
       certification is accomplished. Consult the installation FES Flight for all other rescues.
       Refer to paragraph 30.9 for additional guidance.
       30.4.2.2. Confined Spaces. Workers required to enter confined spaces, such as manholes
       or underground vaults, shall be trained in self-rescue. Safety observers or attendants shall
       be trained in rescue procedures for each type of confined space to be entered. Refer to
       Chapter 23, applicable TOs and 29 CFR 1910.146, Permit-Required Confined Spaces,
       for additional information.
       30.4.2.3. Hazard Communication Training. All workers who may be potentially exposed
       to chemical hazards during the course of work shall require hazard communication
       training IAW AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, upon initial assignment and refresher
       training annually. Additionally, training shall be required when a new hazard or chemical
       is introduced into the work area/shop or a worker is assigned new or different tasks with
       new hazards. Prior to any task requiring the use of or exposure to hazardous materials,
       safety precautions for materials shall be covered in the pre-task safety briefing.
   30.4.3. Training Documentation. All training shall be documented on the AF IMT Form 55
   or AF Form 623 for military and AF Form 971 for civilian personnel or an approved
   computer automated system. Additionally, initial safety-related training shall be documented
   on the individual‘s training records IAW AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        585



   Program. Recurring safety-related training may be documented in a computer automated
   system.
30.5. Safety Equipment and Devices.
   30.5.1. Manholes, Aerial Cables and Pole Lines. Motor vehicle traffic is a hazard to
   personnel working in and around manholes on streets and highways. Warning devices,
   barriers and guarding shall be used to protect personnel working at these locations. Workers
   working on aerial cable installation and pole line construction along streets and highways
   will use the same barriers, and warning and guarding devices as required for manholes.
   Figures 30.1 through 30.5 contain additional information regarding the placement of
   warning devices. Ventilating equipment shall be positioned so the air intake is located away
   from vehicular exhaust. Refer to TO 31W3-10-12, paragraph 10.2., for additional guidance
   on guarding requirements and warning devices.
   30.5.2. Safety Straps, Harnesses, and Lanyards. Nylon straps, not leather safety straps, shall
   be used on steel structures. Safety harnesses, straps and lanyards shall be provided and
   supervisors shall ensure their use when work is performed at positions more than four (4) feet
   above the ground, on poles and on towers. Safety harnesses, straps and lanyards are not
   required for portable ladders. Refer to Chapter 13 and 29 CFR 1910.268(g)
   Telecommunications, Personal Climbing Equipment, for additional guidance. Note: If
   personnel can sustain a fall of more than two (2) feet while wearing climbing equipment, fall
   arrest procedures and equipment guidance in Chapter 13, UFC 3-560-01, 29 CFR 1910.66,
   Appendix C, Personnel Fall Arrest System, and ANSI Z359, Fall Protection series standards,
   shall be followed. Safety straps and harnesses shall also be worn when working at elevated
   positions on poles, towers or similar structures, which do not have adequately guarded work
   areas. Supervisors shall ensure all safety climbing equipment is inspected by a qualified
   individual to determine if it is in safe working condition. Each person using safety harnesses,
   straps and lanyards shall inspect the equipment prior to each use.
   30.5.3. Climbing Safety Devices. Climbing safety devices shall be installed on all ladders
   that are an integral part of the antenna support. Where climbing safety devices are not
   installed, installation or maintenance shall be performed only by a certified climber using
   prescribed fall protection. Personnel climbing metal antenna support poles equipped with
   metal steps will use climbing safety devices. Note: All Cyber Support field technicians
   required to climb un-stepped communication poles will use the squeeze pole fall protector
   (pole choker) arrest system. Users of the pole chokers will comply with TO 00-25-245,
   Operations Instructions Testing and Inspection Procedures for Personnel Safety and Rescue
   Equipment, and manufacturer‘s instructions regarding inspection, maintenance, cleaning and
   storage of PFAS equipment.
   30.5.4. Signs or Visual Aids.
      30.5.4.1. Signs. Portable emergency signs shall be constructed of nonconductive
      materials. Refer to Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags, for additional
      information and guidance. Note: Consideration shall be given to providing bilingual
      signs when located in areas where people speak or read a primary language other than
      English.
586                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         30.5.4.1.1. AFVA 91-303, DANGER — DO NOT ENERGIZE — PERSON
         WORKING ON ANTENNA. This sign shall be placed on the radio frequency (RF)
         power control switch or transmitter before any work is started and when the
         alternating current (AC) power to the transmitter has been disabled. If lockout
         capability exists, the RF control switch shall also be locked out IAW local lockout
         procedures. Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout)
         for additional guidance on lockout/tagout requirements and procedures and Chapter
         29 for additional guidance on signs.
         30.5.4.1.2. AFVA 91-304, DANGER — DO NOT ENERGIZE — WORK IN
         PROGRESS ON EQUIPMENT. This sign may be used in applications where power
         has been de-energized. In all cases where lockout capability exists, the signs shall be
         used in conjunction with lockout procedures.
         30.5.4.1.3. HARD HAT AREA. This sign shall be placed around any job site when
         work is being performed aloft, i.e., where falling object hazards are present.
         30.5.4.1.4. AFVA 91-305, DANGER — INTERLOCKS DISABLED. This sign shall
         be placed on equipment that has had interlocks temporarily disabled during
         maintenance as required by TOs.
         30.5.4.1.5. AFVA 91-306, DANGER — HIGH VOLTAGE. This sign shall be
         prominently posted around areas containing circuits, conductor sets or exposed points
         of contact with the potential of exceeding 600 volts AC or direct current (DC),
         nominal or more, or current flow of 50 milliamperes.
         30.5.4.1.6. UNAUTHORIZED CLIMBING PROHIBITED. This sign shall be placed
         at the installation aerial structures. Several signs strategically located will satisfy
         warning requirements for antenna farms.
         30.5.4.1.7. RADIO FREQUENCY RADIATION. These signs shall be posted at access
         points to all areas where RFR levels exceed permissible exposure limits (PEL).
         Specific requirements are provided in AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radio Frequency
         Radiation (RFR) Safety Program.
  30.5.5. Markings. All antenna support, power, telephone and transmission line poles shall be
  marked 12 feet from the butt of the pole to determine the depth of the pole. The 12-foot mark
  shall be indicated with aluminum pole tags or marker nails. If these are not available, 1-inch
  galvanized steel roofing nails shall be driven into the pole to form the numerals ―12.‖
  30.5.6. Proximity Warning Devices. These devices may be used on cranes or aerial lifts.
  Refer to Chapter 16, Mobile Elevating Work Platforms, Chapter 35, Materials Handling
  Equipment, 29 CFR 1910.67, Vehicle-Mounted Elevating and Rotating Work Platforms, and
  29 CFR 1910.180, Crawler Locomotive and Truck Cranes, for additional guidance.
  30.5.7. Electrical Safety Boards. Refer to paragraph 8.12 for required items in an emergency
  equipment kit or board.
  30.5.8. Hard Hats.
      30.5.8.1. Commanders, supervisors and team members shall ensure all those working on
      or near underground or aerial installation, removal and maintenance jobs wear an
      approved hard hat at all times. Specifically, it shall be worn while working on or around
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       587



      poles, overhead structures, vaults, manholes, excavations, demolition areas and tower and
      antenna construction jobs. The chinstrap shall be worn during work aloft.
      30.5.8.2. Hard hats shall be the electrical worker‘s safety helmet, Class G, IAW Chapter
      14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and ANSI Standard Z89.1, Protective
      Headwear for Industrial Workers. The preferred color for hard hats is yellow due to its
      high visibility during inclement weather and darkness. Hard hats shall not be painted.
      Markings on hard hats shall be of the stick-on type and shall be limited to the name of the
      owner (letters no more than 1/2-inch high by 1/2-inch wide) and a unit emblem (no more
      than 3 inches in diameter). All markings shall be conservative and will not degrade the
      effectiveness or non-conductivity of the hard hat.
   30.5.9. Reflective Clothing. When mission requirements dictate, light-reflective clothing or
   accessories shall be worn IAW Chapter 14 or other applicable guidance.
   30.5.10. Electrical Hazard Shoes. Electrical hazard shoes are not a replacement for
   electrically rated matting in high voltage situations. Shoes are designed to be used when
   working on low voltage circuits and, even then, as a secondary means of protection.
   Additional information can be found in Chapter 14.
   30.5.11. Fire Extinguishers. Supervisors/functional managers shall ensure appropriate fire
   extinguishers shall be provided. The installation FES Flight shall be consulted to determine
   types, quantities and locations of this equipment.
30.6. Tools and Equipment.
   30.6.1. The supervisor shall ensure all tools and equipment are maintained in a safe
   condition. All workers are responsible for the condition and correct use of the tools and
   equipment they use.
   30.6.2. Nonconductive tools shall be used while performing work on energized
   communications systems equipment. Taping or plastic coating is not an acceptable means of
   insulation. Wooden handle tools shall not be used on energized communications systems
   equipment.
   30.6.3. All tools shall be kept clean and free of grease, oil, paint or other foreign material
   IAW TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools. Exception: This
   does not prevent the use of a light film of oil on tools for rust protection.
   30.6.4. Wood or reinforced fiberglass ladders shall be used for work performed on or near
   electrical equipment. Wood ladders shall not be used on electrical equipment if ladder is wet.
   30.6.5. Metal ladders or ladders with metal reinforced side rails shall not be used when work
   is being performed in, on or near electrical equipment, and shall not be stored in any area
   where electronic equipment may be in operation. If ladders are not marked by manufacturer
   with a safety statement that reads, ―Do not use around electrical equipment,‖ then stencil
   ladder with DANGER — DO NOT USE AROUND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, in two-inch
   high red letters or contrasting letters on both ladder side rails. Refer to Chapter 7 for
   additional guidance.
   30.6.6. Equipment and/or component cleaning. Vacuuming is the preferred method of
   cleaning electronic equipment. If compressed air is used, workers will limit the air pressure
 588                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   to less than 30 psi, use effective chip guarding and wear required PPE. Refer to Chapter 18,
   Machinery, for additional guidance and information.
   30.6.7. Test Equipment Set Up. Test operators and technicians shall follow the exact
   methods of adjustment, operation and repair of test equipment given in TOs, manufacturer‘s
   instructions and manuals or applicable diagrams. Workers shall be knowledgeable of the
   characteristics and safe operation of the various instruments before being permitted to use
   them. This shall be accomplished by briefings and warning signs at affected locations. Before
   voltage is applied, cable conductors shall be isolated to the maximum extent practicable.
   30.6.8. Test equipment shall be designed, constructed and installed to provide safe work
   procedures and to minimize personnel exposure to hazardous work situations. When tests
   involve live circuits, the area shall be enclosed. Only authorized personnel who have been
   briefed about the potential hazards involved shall be in this area when tests are performed. At
   least one safety observer shall be present when high voltage is involved.
   30.6.9. Approved and effective warning signs and/or signals shall be used to indicate when
   power is on. A means of emergency power shutdown shall be provided outside the test area
   in addition to the main power switch within the test area.
   30.6.10. Connections to test tables, bus bars, plug racks, terminal cabinets and distribution
   boards shall be secure.
   30.6.11. Other Tools and PPE. All workers involved in test operations shall be provided with
   approved PPE. Refer to Chapter 14, 29 CFR 1910.268(e) and 29 CFR 1910.268(i) for
   additional mandatory requirements for head and eye protection, portable lights, protective
   devices on tools and appliances, soldering devices and lead work.
30.7. High Voltage. High voltage is defined as 600 volts (root-mean-square [RMS]) or greater.
However, much lower voltage can be lethal. The design and development of all military
electronic equipment shall provide fail-safe features for safety of workers during the installation,
operation, maintenance or interchanging of a complete equipment assembly or component part.
Operators and technicians shall not attempt to adjust any electronic equipment when there is a
possibility of injury from unprotected high voltage. Adjustments on operating high voltage
equipment, other than those specified by TO or manufacturer‘s manuals, shall only be authorized
by the unit commander. The unit commander shall consider all operational requirements, TOs,
manufacturer‘s guidance, safety precautions and emergency procedures before authorizing work
to proceed. Workers using high voltage to troubleshoot and/or test cables shall be instructed in
the precautions necessary for their safety and the safety of others. Workers shall be warned to
stay clear while voltage is applied.
   30.7.1. Only qualified personnel shall perform work near energized overhead power lines.
   Approach distances for qualified workers shall be IAW UFC 3-560-01, Table 3-1. Before
   starting any communications work near overhead power lines, coordinate the work with CE‘s
   electrical shop. IAW 29 CFR 1910.268, Telecommunication, and 1910.333, Selection and
   Use of Work Practices, the following safety precautions shall be considered when working
   near overhead power lines:
       30.7.1.1. Any vehicle or mechanical equipment which may have parts of its structure
       elevated near energized overhead power lines shall be operated so a clearance of at least
       10 feet (305 centimeter [cm]) is maintained. If the voltage is higher than 50 kilovolt (kV),
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        589



      the clearance shall be increased 4 inches (10 cm) for every 10 kV over that voltage or
      twice the length of the line insulator, but never less than 10 feet .
      30.7.1.2. If the vehicle is in transit with its structure lowered, the clearance may be
      reduced to 4 feet (122 cm). If the voltage is higher than 50 kV, the clearance shall be
      increased 4 inches (10 cm) for every 10 kV over that voltage.
      30.7.1.3. If insulating barriers are installed to prevent contact with the lines, and if the
      barriers are rated for the voltage of the lines being guarded and are not a part of or an
      attachment to the vehicle or its raised structure, the clearance may be reduced to a
      distance within the designed working dimensions of the insulating barrier.
      30.7.1.4. If the equipment is an aerial lift insulated for the voltage involved, and if the
      work is performed by a qualified person, the clearance (between the uninsulated portion
      of the aerial lift and the power line) may be reduced to the distance given in UFC 3-560-
      01, Table 3-1.
   30.7.2. If an aerial lift or equipment contacts an electrical conductor, the vehicle, equipment
   and attachments shall be considered energized. Personnel standing on the ground shall not
   contact any part unless using protective equipment rated for the voltage.
   30.7.3. Tree branches hanging on an energized conductor shall be removed only with
   appropriate electrically insulating equipment, and only by authorized personnel.
   30.7.4. Line workers‘ electrical safety boots shall be worn to provide additional protection
   against electrical hazards. Rubber footwear or line workers‘ overshoes shall not be worn.
   30.7.5. Warning signs or Air Force Visual Aid (AFVA) 91-306, DANGER — HIGH
   VOLTAGE, shall be prominently posted in all areas housing high voltage equipment; the
   highest expected voltage shall also be posted.
30.8. Rubber Insulating Floor Matting.
   30.8.1. Insulating matting shall be used near electrical apparatus or circuits in high voltage
   maintenance areas as an additional safety measure to protect workers. Insulating matting is
   for protection against accidental shock only and shall not be depended upon for protection
   when handling energized wires and circuits. Refer to TO 00-25-232, Control and Use of
   Insulating Matting for High-Voltage Application, TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice
   Requirements For The Repair, Maintenance and Test of Electrical Equipment, and MIL-
   DTL-15562G, Matting or Sheet, Floor Covering, Insulating for High Voltage Application,
   for information and instructions for the control, use and marking of insulating matting.
   Approved electrical insulating matting is permanently marked IAW MIL-DTL-15562G.
   30.8.2. Upon request, the supervisor, with the assistance of the installation Ground Safety
   office, shall inspect areas where electrical facilities are located and determine whether
   insulating matting is required for worker protection. Typical examples of high voltage areas
   requiring insulating matting are where potential shock hazards exist and additional resistance
   is required; floor resistance is lowered due to dampness; high voltages (above 600 volts) may
   be encountered, such as high voltage consoles; and areas with electrical repair or test benches
   (shops), motors or equipment and control panels.
 590                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   30.8.3. Cleaning shall be accomplished as often as necessary to prevent contamination,
   utilizing domestic cleaners such as carpet cleaner or any other locally approved cleaner
   required for special situations.
   30.8.4. Insulating matting shall be replaced when worn to one-half its original thickness or
   the manufacturer‘s suggested replacement requirements. Note: Shoes with nails shall not be
   worn on insulating matting.
   30.8.5. Insulating matting on floors in front of and around electronic workbenches, high
   voltage cabinets, switch panels, etc., shall be of one continuous length or strip. Where
   possible, the matting shall continue for 24 inches beyond the end of the equipment.
   Overlapping at corners is not required if it produces a tripping hazard. If more than one run
   or strip of matting is required, the activity supervisor shall determine the amount needed.
   30.8.6. Insulating matting shall be seamless and markings shall be non-conducting and not
   impair the insulating qualities of the equipment.
   30.8.7. Matting shall be capable of withstanding the AC prooftest voltage specified in Table
   14.1 or the DC prooftest voltage specified in Table 14.3
   30.8.8. The voltage test shall be applied continuously for three (3) minutes for equipment
   other than matting and applied continuously for one minute on matting.
   30.8.9. Insulating matting shall not be used for nonskid applications such as walkways or
   hallway runners, in front of workbenches (non-electronic) or on work- and test-benches, etc.
   For these applications, general-purpose matting shall be used. This is a low-cost matting and
   is satisfactory for use in areas where shock protection is not required. No certification for use
   of general-purpose matting is required.
30.9. Aerial Work.
   30.9.1. The only personnel authorized to climb poles and towers are those who have been
   properly trained and who are certified or in a training status under the observation of a
   qualified instructor. Appropriate safety equipment shall be worn while performing aerial
   work. Refer to TO 31-10-3, Air Force Communications Command (E-I Standard) – Standard
   Instl Practices – Outside Plant Instl, for proper climbing techniques.
   30.9.2. Commander responsibilities.
       30.9.2.1. Unit commanders shall designate, in writing, all personnel required to maintain
       climbing proficiency.
       30.9.2.2. Commanders shall restrict climbing authorizations to structures that must be
       climbed to accomplish mission requirements.
   30.9.3. Initial Certification Procedures.
       30.9.3.1. Upon assignment to a unit, each individual whose future duties will require
       climbing poles and towers where they may be subject to a fall of four (4) feet or more in
       height shall be trained and certified, as applicable. The requirements ensure workers who
       must climb use proper PPE, are fully qualified and physically capable of climbing and
       working aloft.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     591



     30.9.3.2. For Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSEC) other than 3D1X7, commanders shall
     restrict climbing authorizations to those structures that must be climbed to accomplish
     mission requirements.
  30.9.4. Supervisors/trainers responsibilities.
     30.9.4.1. Climbing recertification is an annual requirement.
     30.9.4.2. Annual recertification may be satisfied by demonstrating climbing proficiency
     any time climbing is performed while completing actual job requirements or training
     events under supervision of qualified certifier.
     30.9.4.3. Decertify personnel not qualified to perform climbing tasks and restrict from
     climbing until recertified. The certifier will determine the training requirements.
     30.9.4.4. Supervisors must have a rescue plan in place in the event a climber cannot
     descend the tower on their own.
     30.9.4.5. Supervisors shall ensure personnel on the ground or in the air do not remove or
     tamper with guy wires, guying hardware or supporting ropes when workers are aloft.
     30.9.4.6. Supervisors and each team member have the responsibility to prohibit persons
     from climbing if it would be potentially unsafe due to mental or physical condition, such
     as a fear of heights or dizziness, fainting or lack of experience.
  30.9.5. Climbing Certifier Requirements. Climbing certifier must:
     30.9.5.1. Complete a climbing certification training course or commercial equivalent.
     Tower certifier training, J3AZR3D157 0C1A, can be found at website:
     https://etca.randolph.af.mil/. ANG offers climbing course Cable/Antenna SIPT, and
     information           can          be             found          at         website:
     http://www.milvet.state.pa.us/air_national/lightningforce/index.htm.
     30.9.5.2. Be designated, in writing, by the commander to conduct climbing certification.
     30.9.5.3. Be current in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first aid training.
     30.9.5.4. Demonstrate ability to perform and teach complex tasks aloft.
     30.9.5.5. Be certified to train individuals in pole top and tower rescue.
     30.9.5.6. Use a training plan to conduct pole top and tower rescue training and climbing
     certification.
     30.9.5.7. Maintain climbing proficiency and knowledge of current OSHA requirements.
     30.9.5.8. Determine and arrange for the specific safety equipment to use during
     performance evaluations.
     30.9.5.9. Evaluate a written and/or oral knowledge test.
  30.9.6. Climbers responsibilities.
     30.9.6.1. Each team member has the responsibility to ensure all personnel are prepared
     for the climbing task.
592                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      30.9.6.2. Personnel handling or using the equipment will inspect to determine if the
      climbing equipment is in safe working condition. Refer to TO 00-25-245, Operations
      Instructions Testing and Inspection Procedures for Personnel Safety and Rescue
      Equipment, for additional guidance.
      30.9.6.3. Climbers must maintain three points of contact while climbing at all times.
      Either one hand and two feet or two hands and one foot must be in contact with the tower
      or pole at all times while ascending or descending.
  30.9.7. Safety Observers. When performing aerial work on communication cable and
  antenna systems, safety observers must be qualified to operate the equipment in use and shall
  have a current climbing certification, be proficient in CPR and administering emergency first
  aid treatment that involves control of bleeding, shock, open wounds and burns, and
  procedures for obtaining medical assistance.
  30.9.8. Documentation.
      30.9.8.1. Military: Document certification in the IMDS training subsystem. A record of
      climbing certification shall be maintained on AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification
      and Recurring Training, and AF Form, 623 Individual Training Record Folder.
      30.9.8.2. Civilian: AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief, or an approved computer
      automated system.
  30.9.9. The potential of falling is the most obvious hazard encountered while climbing. It is
  extremely important that your safety gear is used and worn properly. The personal fall arrest
  system (PFAS), i.e., climbing harness, lanyard and other safety equipment must be inspected
  prior to each use. Workers shall inspect the equipment prior to use. Refer to paragraph
  30.9.15 for additional guidance on PFAS.
  30.9.10. Steps and ladders shall be installed on all antenna towers and structures when the
  design permits. These steps and ladders shall be equipped with cages or safety devices where
  possible. Exceptions to this requirement are structures designed to provide equivalent
  protection of a safety cage, e.g., triangular antenna towers that are climbed internally where
  structural members provide approximately the same protection normally afforded by a safety
  cage. Safety cages, ladder devices or similar equipment are not required on wooden poles.
  Design specifications for protective devices on existing facilities shall be retrofitted as
  required in coordination with the installation CE. New towers, poles and masts shall have
  protective devices included in the original design. When installed, use of protective devices
  shall be strictly enforced.
  30.9.11. Certification is not required, for example, to walk up and down stairways. Refer to
  Chapter 7, TO 31-10-3, Outside Plant Installation, 29 CFR 1910.24., Fixed Industrial
  Stairs, and 29 CFR 1910.27., Fixed Ladders, for additional precautions and guidance.
  30.9.12. Workers engaged in climbing communication poles, antenna supports, etc., shall be
  issued suitable PPE, i.e., line worker boots, hard hat with chinstrap, safety harnesses and
  safety straps, which shall be worn at all times while climbing and working aloft. When PPE
  is not used during climbing, it shall be attached to the harness or elsewhere as prescribed. It
  shall not be carried in the hand, over the shoulder or by other unauthorized methods. Hard
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      593



  hats shall be worn and secured with chinstraps while climbing and working aloft. Climbing
  equipment shall be inspected IAW Chapter 13, Fall Protection.
  30.9.13. Elevated Areas. Elevated areas of C-E facilities and mobile electronic equipment
  vans, where work such as calibration, adjustment and maintenance of electronic equipment is
  required on a frequency of more than once per month, shall be provided with safety railings
  IAW Chapter 7.
  30.9.14. Environmental Factors.
     30.9.14.1. Check Weather Forecast Prior to Climbing.
     30.9.14.2. Personnel shall not climb if lightning is within five miles.
     30.9.14.3. Personnel shall not climb if winds are in excess of 25 MPH.
  30.9.15. Personal Fall Arrest System (PFAS).
     30.9.15.1. OSHA requires that employers provide fall protection for any worker whose
     work requires them to be four (4) feet or more above a lower level or off the ground. The
     use of full body harness is required. This harness shall be part of a PFAS. There are three
     parts to a PFAS: an anchor, a body harness and a connecting device. Refer to Chapter 13
     for additional guidance.
     30.9.15.2. Users of PFAS shall comply with TO 00-25-245, Operations Instructions
     Testing and Inspection Procedures for Personnel Safety and Rescue Equipment, -
     regarding inspection, maintenance, cleaning and storage of PFAS equipment. Refer to
     Chapter 13 for additional guidance.
     30.9.15.3. Kernmantle rope is rope that is constructed with the interior core (the kern)
     surrounded by and protected by a woven sheath (the mantle) designed to maximize
     strength, durability and flexibility. Kernmantle ropes come in a variety of different sizes
     and ratings; for example, the 5/8‖ diameter kernmantle rope is rated at 12,000 lbs. and the
     1/2‖ diameter is rated at 10,000 lbs.
     30.9.15.4. There are mainly two (2) different types of kernmantle rope: static and
     dynamic. Static rope is used in situations where little stretching is required, mainly for
     hauling items, rappelling and other applications. Dynamic rope is used to secure climbers
     and is designed to stretch under heavy loads to absorb the shock of a fallen climber.
     Dynamic ropes are only rated to handle a certain number of falls and shall be discarded
     once signs of stress appear. These signs show up as a tapered appearance in the rope.
     30.9.15.5. Kernmantle rope shall never be stepped on. Getting fine rock and dust
     particles in the sheath (mantle) will happen with everyday work. However, stepping on
     the rope will grind these particles into the inner core (kern) and cause damage to the rope
     internally.
     30.9.15.6. Test the rope grab for proper operation. Ensure the rope grab is installed with
     the arrow pointed in the up position and properly locked down onto the rope. Slide the
     rope grab up and down the rope to ensure it slides freely. When a sharp downward pull is
     applied, the braking mechanism shall activate, preventing the rope grab from moving
594                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      downward. The rope grab must be the proper size for the rope used, for example, use a
      5/8‖ rope grab on a 5/8‖ rope.
      30.9.15.7. Some towers are equipped with a safety rail and sliding sleeves. Sliding
      sleeves are similar to rope grabs in that they have an arrow on them which shows the
      proper installation direction. The arrow must be installed pointing up or the brake won‘t
      activate during a fall. Inspect the sliding sleeve for cracks, corrosion and pitting before
      use. If any of these conditions exist, the sliding sleeve must be replaced before use.
      30.9.15.8. Carabineers are simply a clip or hook. When used for climbing, they must
      have a spring loaded gate (keeper) and the gate must self-lock. Carabineers must be rated
      to handle 5,000 lbs.
  30.9.16. Equipment For Un-stepped Communications Poles. All Communications-Electronic
  (C-E) field technicians required to climb un-stepped communications poles will use the
  squeeze pole fall protector (pole choker) arrest system. Users of the pole chokers will comply
  with TO 00-25-245 and manufacturer‘s instructions regarding inspection, maintenance,
  cleaning and storage of PFAS equipment.
  30.9.17. Tower Rescue.
      30.9.17.1. All tower workers shall be qualified in first aid, buddy care and CPR.
      30.9.17.2. Use the following steps for descending/suspension method of rescue.
         30.9.17.2.1. Climb the tower using the ―Y‖ lanyard and attach a snatch block to the
         tower.
         30.9.17.2.2. Install a rope through the snatch block. This shall be used to raise the
         other equipment that shall be used for rescue.
         30.9.17.2.3. Attach the canvas bucket to the rope and raise it to the anchor position.
         30.9.17.2.4. Attach the anchors; one for the victim‘s rope grab, and another for the
         rescuer‘s rope grab. The third anchor for the Fisk Descender, which shall be attached
         in the middle, with the victim to the right and the rescuer to the left.
         30.9.17.2.5. Rig the three termination plates and attach them to the anchor straps.
         30.9.17.2.6. The rescuer shall attach to the rope grab and rig the descender and
         prepare to rescue the victim.
         30.9.17.2.7. The rescuer shall not disconnect from the rope grab until on the ground.
         30.9.17.2.8. Once in position, the rescuer shall descend to the victim and
         permanently lock-off the Fisk Descender.
         30.9.17.2.9. After permanent lock-off has been accomplished, the rescuer shall attach
         to the victim using a carabiner.
         30.9.17.2.10. After connecting to the victim, the rescuer shall cut the mule tape
         which will cause the victim to fall about two (2) inches. The Fisk Descender shall
         take on the weight of the victim, and the rescuer will not feel the affect of the victim‘s
         weight.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       595



        30.9.17.2.11. Once attached to the victim, the rescuer shall position the victim on
        his/her right hip.
        30.9.17.2.12. After getting the victim positioned properly, the rescuer shall place the
        descender in the descend position and lower him or herself and the victim to the
        ground.
        30.9.17.2.13. The rescuer shall apply first aid, buddy care or CPR, if needed, while
        awaiting the arrival of emergency services.
  30.9.18. General Tower Climbing Precautions.
     30.9.18.1. Check tower antenna supports and mounts for corrosion. Note: Check bolts
     on towers, because they corrode before tower sections. Refer to TOs 31-10-19, Antenna
     Systems —Anchors and Supports, and 31R-10-5, Air Force Comm Commands (E-I
     Standards) – Antenna Systems, Maintenance, Repair and Testing, for additional
     guidance.
     30.9.18.2. Before starting work, ensure power to antennas is turned off and locked out,
     the capacitors are discharged and appropriate signs or tags are posted.
     30.9.18.3. Check natural fiber, nylon and wire ropes, used in dismantling of antenna
     supports, for deterioration and splices, and discard them if found to be unsafe. Make sure
     wire ropes are made of improved plow grade steel. Ensure loads placed on ropes do not
     exceed the safe working load limits prescribed for the diameter of the rope.
     30.9.18.4. Do not carry bulky and heavy tools, parts or other materials on safety
     harnesses while climbing.
  30.9.19. Pole Top Rescue.
     30.9.19.1. Pole top rescue shall only be attempted by personnel who have been properly
     training and who are certified or in a training status under the observation of a qualified
     instructor.
        30.9.19.1.1. All pole workers shall be qualified in first aid, buddy care and CPR.
        30.9.19.1.2. If no aerial lift devices are available for rescue, get help and call or
        assign someone to call the local emergency medical service (EMS) or FES Flight.
        Artificial respiration can be applied to an unconscious victim on a pole, and the best
        position shall be slightly above the victim. If CPR is required, the victim must be
        lowered as quickly as possible, and then CPR administered.
        30.9.19.1.3. Climb to rescue. Climb the pole and free the victim from the energized
        line if necessary. Take great care to ensure the rescuer is not also electrocuted. If CPR
        is not required, mouth-to-mouth resuscitation can be attempted before lowering the
        injured worker to the ground. If resuscitation necessary, the best position for the
        rescuer is slightly above the victim. When the victim begins breathing naturally, keep
        the victim in position and under control until additional help is available for lowering
        the victim to the ground, using rope rigging if possible.
        30.9.19.1.4. Take a position below the victim on the pole and place your safety strap
        around the pole. Then climb up the pole with the victim‘s legs straddling your safety
 596                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          strap, and with the victim‘s body between you and the pole. When the safety strap is
          sufficiently high, the victim‘s weight can then be taken on your safety strap. Do not
          unfasten the victim‘s safety strap. 30.9.19.1.5. Use a handline to lower the victim for
          either one or two rescuers.
       30.9.19.2. Pole Top Rescue Training Requirements.
          30.9.19.2.1. Graduates of the communications cable and antenna systems apprentice
          course or other accredited climbing courses are recognized by the Cyber Systems Air
          Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) as qualified climbers for a period of 90 days
          from the graduation date. At those units with existing climbing capabilities, the
          gaining unit must evaluate the graduates within 90 days from the graduation date to
          verify and document qualifications. The individual shall be tested, orally and/or in
          writing and by practical demonstration, to ascertain knowledge of standard climbing
          safety practices and proficiency in climbing practices and procedures. This
          requirement ensures individuals who must climb and use protective devices are fully
          qualified and physically capable of climbing and working aloft. Decertify the
          individual if the initial evaluation exceeds the 90-day period.
       30.9.19.3. General Pole Climbing Precautions.
          30.9.19.3.1. Inspect the pole for unsafe conditions both before and during the climb.
          30.9.19.3.2. Check poles for deterioration. Prior to placing body weight on step,
          check steps on poles for proper depth and tightness.
       30.9.19.3.3. Unsafe conditions include such things as rake (leaning of the pole), shell rot,
       cracks, breaks, knots, woodpecker holes and foreign attachments to the pole.
   30.9.20. Radome Installation, Maintenance and/or Removal. Workers engaged in radome
   work shall be experienced riggers and work under the direction of a qualified supervisor.
   Those who work on or in the immediate vicinity of the radome shall wear hard hats and
   safety-toed shoes. Workers shall make frequent checks with the nearest weather forecasting
   agency to allow time to lash down equipment for impending inclement weather. Also,
   workers shall never try to replace panels when the wind is blowing more than 30 miles per
   hour and shall never remove more than one panel at a time under normal conditions. When
   mixing resin, workers shall follow the manufacturer‘s instructions. Workers shall use the
   maintenance rope to lift the maintenance ladder to the top of the radome. Prior to each use,
   the rope shall be inspected for frayed or worn spots and replaced, if required.
30.10. Antenna Supports (Towers and Poles).
   30.10.1. Before starting work, ensure power to antennas is turned off and locked out, the
   capacitors are discharged and appropriate signs or tags are posted IAW Chapter 21,
   Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout). Check poles for deterioration. Prior to
   placing body weight on step, check steps on poles for proper depth and tightness. Do not
   carry bulky and heavy tools, parts or other materials on safety harnesses while climbing.
   Refer to TO 31-10-3, Outside Plant Installation, TO 31R-10-5, Antennas Systems:
   Maintenance Repair and Testing, and Chapter 21 for additional guidance.
   30.10.2. Check guy wires for proper tension and attachment hardware and anchor rods for
   corrosion. If hardware shows signs of corrosion, dig down 18 inches around the anchor rod to
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     597



   determine the extent of corrosion to the anchor rod. Additionally, check tower antenna
   supports and mounts for corrosion. Note: Check bolts on towers because they corrode before
   tower sections. Refer to TOs 31-10-19, Antenna Systems —Anchors and Supports, and 31R-
   10-5, for additional guidance and information.
   30.10.3. Check natural fiber, nylon and wire ropes, used in dismantling of antenna supports,
   for deterioration and splices, and discard them if found to be unsafe. Make sure wire ropes
   are made of improved plow grade steel. Ensure loads placed on ropes do not exceed the safe
   working load limits prescribed for the diameter of the rope. Refer to TOs 31-10-3, 31-10-28,
   Erection of Steel Towers, and 31R-10-5 for further guidance.
   30.10.4. Ensure only special purpose vehicles designed for heavy antenna erection and
   removal, which are capable of handling the maximum weight of items to be lifted, are used.
   Check the vehicle manufacturer‘s specifications and handbook for safe operation and proper
   use.
30.11. Single Phase Portable and Vehicle-Mounted Generators.
   30.11.1. Portable Generators. Under the following conditions, the frame of a portable
   generator is not required to be grounded and may serve as the grounding electrode for a
   system supplied by the generator when:
      30.11.1.1. The generator supplies only equipment mounted on the generator and/or cord-
      and plug-connected equipment through receptacles mounted on the generator.
      30.11.1.2. The non-current-carrying metal parts of equipment and the equipment
      grounding conductor terminals of the receptacles are bonded to the generator frame.
   30.11.2. Vehicle-Mounted Generators. Under the following conditions, the frame of a
   vehicle may be permitted to serve as the grounding electrode for a system supplied by a
   generator located on the vehicle:
      30.11.2.1. The frame of the generator is bonded to the vehicle frame.
      30.11.2.2. The generator supplies only equipment located on the vehicle and/or cord- and
      plug-connected equipment through receptacles mounted on the vehicle or on the
      generator.
      30.11.2.3. The non-current-carrying metal parts of equipment and the equipment
      grounding conductor terminals of the receptacles are bonded to the generator frame.
   30.11.3. Neutral Conductor Bonding. A neutral conductor shall be bonded to the generator
   frame when the generator is a component of a separately derived system. The bonding of any
   conductor other than a neutral within the generator to its frame shall not be required.
   30.11.4. Metallic Encased Tools. The tools and equipment being powered by generators
   shall contain three-wire cords with grounded plugs.
   30.11.5. Fixed Wiring Systems. Portable and vehicle-mounted generators that supply fixed
   wiring systems shall be grounded IAW NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, Article 250,
   Grounding.
30.12. Repairs and Adjustments.
 598                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   30.12.1. Repairs and adjustments shall be made to energized circuits only when a power-on
   condition is essential. Refer to applicable TO for additional guidance.
   30.12.2. Repairs and adjustments of components, when the equipment slides are extended
   from their cabinets and voltages are applied, shall be permitted only when specified by
   applicable TOs, manufacturer‘s manuals or approved isolation and troubleshooting methods.
   Personnel not essential to the operation shall be removed from the area before power is
   applied. When high voltages are present or transmitters of 1-kilowatt (kW) power rating or
   higher are involved, unit commander will approve procedures and adjustments not specified
   by TO or manufacturer‘s manuals. Additionally, insulated gloves shall be used when directed
   by TOs or the manufacturer‘s manuals. Ensure insulated matting is used and a qualified
   safety observer is present.
30.13. Power Distribution Panels.
   30.13.1. Power Distribution Panels and Interlocks. Power distribution panels and interlocks
   shall be secured to prevent personnel contacting energized circuits. When equipment must be
   removed from service for inspection or repair, the appropriate circuit breaker or interlock
   shall be locked open (off), if possible, and posted with a danger tag, warning sign, AFVA or
   other suitable identification until the equipment is again ready for use. Tape shall not be used
   to ―lock‖ open circuit breakers. Refer to Chapter 29 and paragraph 30.5.4 for additional
   guidance and information on signs and visual aids.
   30.13.2. Fuses and Circuit Breakers. The inside cover of fuse(s) and circuit breaker panels
   (or area adjacent if not equipped with a cover) shall indicate in writing the equipment
   controlled by which fuse or circuit breaker. Whenever possible, over-current devices shall be
   installed in electrical circuits of a size and type to interrupt the current flow when the current
   exceeds the current rating of the equipment or exceeds the capacity of the conductor,
   whichever is smaller. Blown fuses shall be replaced by the type required by the
   manufacturer. When possible, clip type or flat-mount cartridge fuses shall only be removed
   and replaced by using insulated fuse pullers. Wire, foil, solder and similar materials shall not
   be used as substitutes for fuses.
   30.13.3. Carbon Blocks and Heat Coils. Prior to removal of operating carbon blocks or heat
   coils, a measurement of line potential shall be made using a voltmeter having a minimum
   input impedance of 20,000 ohms per volt to ensure the foreign electromotive force (FEMF)
   which energized these protective devices is no longer present. Carbon blocks and/or heat
   coils shall not be removed or replaced if the FEMF is still present.
30.14. Cathode Ray Tubes (CRT). Precautions shall be taken to minimize the danger of
breaking the glass envelope of a CRT. For protection of both tubes and personnel, tubes are
packaged and centrally positioned in shipping and storage containers. They shall be retained in
their original containers until removed for actual installation or for inspection and test. A tube
shall not be stored without its original packaging. In addition to the danger of implosion due to
breakage, rough handling may also cause displacement of the electrodes within the tube. A sharp
blow on the service bench can displace the electrodes enough to cause faulty operation of the
tube and even destroy it. Tubes shall be exposed or changed only in areas where a minimum
number of personnel are present. All personnel working in the vicinity shall wear eye protection
whenever a CRT is removed from its container. Handling of large diameter tubes shall be done
by two (2) workers. Workers who handle tubes will:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          599



   30.14.1. Wear PPE, consisting of an apron, gauntlet-type gloves, goggles and full-face
   shield, during tube installation or removal of CRTs larger than six (6) inches in diameter.
   30.14.2. Remove tube from its shipping or storage container face up by grasping the larger,
   or bell end. Avoid handling large tubes by the neck since the narrow portion of the tube is
   particularly susceptible to breakage from bumping or striking other objects. This will also
   minimize strain due to mechanical misalignment. Do not place a tube on its side on a flat
   surface. Instead, place the tube face down on a nonabrasive pad or suitable material. Avoid
   scratching the glass of a tube since such scratches weaken the tube and can cause failure.
   30.14.3. Special handling instructions are normally provided by the manufacturer for tubes
   having an external insulation coating applied to areas of the bell end. If not otherwise
   instructed, grasp the rim of the bell, holding the neck end only to guide the base into position.
   30.14.4. Permanently mount a protective shield on tubes used regularly for testing
   equipment. For those tubes not having integral implosion protection, use a safety glass
   faceplate over the screen. Note: New tubes use a bonded faceplate or a similar method of
   integral implosion protection, eliminating this requirement. However, the older type tubes
   may still be in use and the safety precautions cited herein shall be observed.
   30.14.5. Handle old or unusable tubes with the same precautions for new tubes. Unless
   otherwise directed, destroy old or unusable tubes prior to disposal. Place the tube into a steel
   container or sealed carton that has a hole in the top just large enough for a crowbar or similar
   instrument and smash the tube. An alternate method is to break the evacuation tube located at
   the end of the neck. After destroying the tube, and before placing into bulk waste containers,
   seal the residue in the original or an equivalent container, using tape. Contact the installation
   Environmental Management office and BE for potential radiation issues prior to destroying
   the tube and for disposal guidance.
   30.14.6. Immediately wash the cut(s) to remove dirt, phosphorus or other particles, and
   obtain immediate medical attention if broken glass from a tube cuts the skin.
   30.14.7. In the event of equipment fires, use only approved extinguishers on CRTs. Refer to
   paragraph 30.5.11 and the installation (FES) Flight for additional guidance.
   30.14.8. Contact BE for an evaluation of the X-ray hazard of all color video display tubes
   (VDT) manufactured before 1970 and operating at voltages greater than 16 kV, or for VDTs
   manufactured after 1970 when maintenance procedures have the potential for violating
   manufacturer-applied warning labels.
30.15. Radar and Microwave Equipment.
   30.15.1. Radar and microwave equipment are sources of non-ionizing radiation. Personnel
   shall be instructed in the hazards of non-ionizing radiation and shall not be exposed to non-
   ionizing radiation levels above the permissible exposure limits outlined in AFOSH Standard
   48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program. .
   30.15.2. Exercise caution when working on or adjacent to transmitter antennas. Special
   precautions shall be taken to ensure a transmitter, connected to an antenna that is being
   inspected or worked on, is locked out IAW Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout
   and Tagout), requirements and cannot be energized. Ensure adjacent antennas, which create
 600                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   hazardous levels of RF radiation at the work location, are also secured. Ensure workers
   remove all jewelry prior to performing any task on equipment. Review the site standard
   operating procedures (SOP) for radiation hazard control and site RF hazards reports and
   drawings. This will ensure locations where RF hazards exist are known and appropriate
   measures (shutdown or blanking of antennas) are taken to prevent exposure of personnel
   working in those areas. A danger tag, warning sign, AFVA or other suitable identification
   advising others of the nature of work in progress shall be posted on the console of the
   transmitter and in all other critical locations.
   30.15.3. Workers shall not look into an open waveguide that is connected to an energized
   source of microwave radiation.
   30.15.4. A non-ionizing radiation warning sign shall be posted in areas where a hazard may
   exist. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-9 for additional guidance.
30.16. Entering Manholes and Unvented Vaults.
   30.16.1. Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, requirements shall be met during all entry
   operations. Manholes and vaults shall be evaluated and tested to determine the classification
   of the confined spaces and whether entry permits shall be required. Additionally, manholes,
   vaults and handholes shall be positively identified as to utility type (communication,
   electrical power distribution, sewer, etc.) prior to entry. In the absence of positive
   identification, personnel shall coordinate with the installation Ground Safety office and
   contact the appropriate installation organizations to establish positive identification. These
   shall normally include the installation CE electrical shop, communication unit and FES
   Flight.
   30.16.2. Unidentified cables shall be positively identified as to the utility type. Cables shall
   be evaluated using a nonintrusive device, such as a clamp-on voltmeter, to determine the
   absence or presence of electrical voltage and current prior to beginning any work on the
   cable. Although discouraged, a small percentage of manholes, vaults or handholes may be
   joint use. In these few instances, extreme caution shall be used and the communication cable
   shall be positively identified. When requested, the installation civil engineering electrical
   shop shall provide an electrician to assist in determining guarding and safe procedures.
30.17. Cables.
   30.17.1. Aerial Cables. Maintain minimum distances (42 inches up to 87,000 volts and 48
   inches over 87,000 volts) between power and communications cables on joint-use poles. If
   minimum distances cannot be maintained, de-energize the power line before performing
   installation or maintenance work. Workers shall comply with the requirements in UFC 3-
   560-01, Table 3-1.
   30.17.2. Observe caution when installing messenger strand so the loose ends do not make
   contact with power lines.
   30.17.3. When crossing over roadways, railroads, walkway, etc., ensure proper overhead
   clearances are maintained. Refer to TO 31W3-10-19, AF Communication SVC (E-I
   Standard) — Standard Installation Practices, Telephone, Outside Plant Installation, Pole
   Line, for additional guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           601



   30.17.4. Before riding or placing a ladder against an aerial strand, test the strand by
   suspending approximately 300 pounds in the middle of the span. An easy test method is to
   place a rope over the strand and have two (2) workers suspend their weight on it.
   30.17.5. Never ride a cable car over power lines (primary or secondary).
   30.17.6. Check handlines for serviceability prior to use. The line worker shall remove the
   handline from the safety harness when they reach the work position and secure it to the pole.
   30.17.7. Use safety straps and safety harnesses while working on elevated work platforms
   such as aerial splicing platforms, pole platforms, ladder platforms and terminal balconies.
   Wear insulating rubber gloves when handling suspension strand that is being installed on
   joint-use poles. TO 31W3-10-19 contains additional guidance and information for these
   requirements.
   30.17.8. Underground and Buried Cables. Refer to TO 31W3-10-12, AF Comm Command
   (E-I) Standard Installation Practices – Outside Plant Cable Placement, for guidance and
   requirements.
   30.17.9. Pressurized Cables. Refer to TO 31W3-10-16, Outside Plant Cable Pressurization,
   for information and guidance.
   30.17.10. Trenching and Excavations. Refer to TO 3lW3-10-12, Outside Plant Cable
   Placement, US Army Corps of Engineers Manual (EM) 385-1-1, Safety and Health
   Requirements Manual, and 29 CFR 1926.652, Excavations — Requirement for Protective
   Systems, for information and guidance.
30.18. Special Purpose Vehicles. See AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, for guidance.
   30.18.1. Inspection. Prior to operation, visually inspect the vehicle and check vehicle
   documentation, i.e., AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report, and
   AF Form 1807, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (Fuel Servicing
   Vehicles/Equipment) to determine if it is safe, serviceable and in good condition. Inspect for
   correct assembly, storage of equipment and worn equipment. After operation, document and
   correct any operating deficiencies, report defects that require repair to the unit vehicle control
   officer and/or organizational maintenance section, and replace unserviceable equipment.
   30.18.2. Truck-Mounted Winches. Telephone line and maintenance trucks are equipped with
   front- and/or back-mounted drum-type winches. A safety observer will stand to the front and
   well clear of the winch when used. Winches are extremely powerful tools and extreme
   caution shall be exercised when used. The winch operator shall be thoroughly trained and
   familiar with both the operation of a winch gear train and power takeoff lever movement.
      30.18.2.1. Winch operators shall wear leather gloves when handling a winch line and
      never hand feed the line onto the drum. Inspect the winch line before use for defects such
      as broken or worn strands, kinks, flat spots and worn eye loops. Remove damaged or
      badly kinked winch lines from service. Never rig a winch line so it will pull against the
      flange of the winch drum. Note: Some winches are designed for pulling while others are
      designed for raising or lowering. Ensure each winch is being used for its designed
      purpose.
 602                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   30.18.3. Cable Reels. The safe handling, moving, and positioning of cable reels require well-
   trained operators in good physical condition. Pre-planning the move and final positioning
   will identify any problems with the surface condition and the best methods to use. Always
   use a spotter when backing cable reel trailers. Caution shall be used when handling cable
   reels and cable reel trailer. A full reel of large cable may weigh as much as 10 tons.
   Therefore, it is necessary to carefully control the movement of the reel. Never permit the reel
   to tilt. On uneven or soft ground, provide a substantial runway of heavy planks. Level the
   reel by blocking it in a manner that prevents tilting. After positioning in the desired storage
   location, block the reel to prevent rolling.
30.19. Ground Controlled Approach (GCA) Radars. Before ascending to the roof of the
GCA trailer or other rotating antenna location, the supervisor shall inform all nearby personnel
that work is being performed on the roof and shall ensure the following is accomplished:
   30.19.1. The surveillance antenna control switch is turned off, locked out, and a warning
   sign or AFVA 91-303, DANGER — DO NOT ENERGIZE — PERSON WORKING ON
   ANTENNA, is placed on the high voltage power supply switch. The roof-mounted antenna
   safety switch shall be turned off. Refer to Chapter 21 for additional information on lockout
   and tagout requirements and paragraph 30.5.4 for signs and visual aids.
   30.19.2. TO 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention and Control, Cleaning, Painting, and Marking of
   USAF Support Equipment (SE), requires rooftops of mobile GCA vans be painted to warn
   personnel of rotating antenna hazards. Note: In combat areas, the sweep area covered by
   antenna rotation may be indicated by a broken line of 3/4-inch-wide red dashes.

Figure 30.1. Location of Warning Devices – Manhole Off Highway.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                    603



Figure 30.2. Location of Warning Devices – Manhole in Two-Lane Highway.




Figure 30.3. Location of Trailer.




Figure 30.4. Night Warning – Arrangements of Warning Signs.
 604                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 30.5. Night Warning – Use of Floodlights.




30.20. Communications Cable, Antenna and Communications Systems Checklist. This is
not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical
items contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the
checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall
add to this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements
and/or situations.
   30.20.1. Are flammable wastes disposed of at the end of each shift in clearly marked metal
   containers? Reference 30.1.1
   30.20.2. Are workers aware of the risk of electromagnetic interference for persons who have
   electrically active medical implants? Reference 30.1.3
   30.20.3. Are procedures established to protect personnel and notify the installation Radiation
   Safety Officer if an electron tube containing radioactive materials is broken? Reference
   30.2.3.3
   30.20.4. Are regulators removed, safety caps installed and compressed gas cylinders
   properly secured during transport or when not in use? Reference 30.2.5
   30.20.5. Are compressed gas cylinders secured, stored away from excessive heat and
   protected from the direct rays of the sun? Reference 30.2.5.1
   30.20.6. Do workers adhere to established safety practices when working near exposed
   electrical circuits or maintenance and installation activities, such as not wearing rings,
   watches or other conductive objects; not using or carrying in pockets, metallic measuring
   rules, tools or metal-cased objects; and avoiding working in wet clothes? Reference 30.3.1
   30.20.7. Are electrical circuits de-energized, and locked and tagged out before attempting
   any work, unless the work requires the circuits to remain energized? Reference 30.3.5
   30.20.8. Do workers wear arc-fault protective clothing when work tasks expose them to a
   potential for arc flash? Reference 30.3.5
   30.20.9. Are workers trained on the proper procedures to be accomplished if leakage of
   suspected PCBs is detected during work on transformers? Reference 30.3.9
   30.20.10. Have the installation (FES) Flight and the emergency response personnel been
   provided maps with routes to locations of remote work sites? Reference 30.3.11
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     605



  30.20.11. Are metal workbenches and those that are metal framed or metal legged, which are
  used for repairing and testing electronic equipment, grounded? Reference 30.3.14.1
  30.20.12. Is the soldering work area free of combustible materials and equipped with fire
  extinguishers? References 30.3.15
  30.20.13. Is proper face protection used by personnel performing soldering tasks? Reference
  30.3.15.1
  30.20.14. Is the soldering work area properly ventilated? Reference 30.3.15.2
  30.20.15. Do workers who use heaters and torches in tents ensure the tent material is fire
  resistant and the tent is adequately ventilated during use of this equipment? Reference
  30.3.16
  30.20.16. Have all workers required to perform duties on communications systems or act as
  safety observers received first aid and CPR training? Reference 30.4.1
  30.20.17. Are personnel who are required to enter confined spaces trained in self-rescue?
  Reference 30.4.2.2
  30.20.18. Is a pre-task safety briefing performed prior to any task requiring the use of or
  exposure to hazardous materials? Reference 30.4.2.3
  30.20.19. Is the training for all workers required to perform duties on communications
  systems or act as safety observers documented properly? Reference 30.4.3
  30.20.20. Are warning devices and barriers used when motor vehicle traffic is a potential
  hazard to personnel working in manholes or on aerial lifts? Reference 30.5.1
  30.20.21. Are appropriate warning signs or AFVAs available and used when working in and
  around communications systems work sites? Reference 30.5.4
  30.20.22. Is emergency equipment available to personnel exposed to high voltage when
  performing communications maintenance tasks? Reference 30.5.7
  30.20.23. Are hard hats issued to personnel who work on and around poles, overhead
  structures, tower and antenna construction jobs? Reference 30.5.8.1
  30.20.24. Are all tools and equipment maintained in safe condition? Reference 30.6.1
  30.20.25. Are nonconductive tools used when performing work on energized C-E
  equipment? Reference 30.6.2
  30.20.26. Are all ladders used to support electrical work of proper design (wood or
  fiberglass)? Reference 30.6.4
  30.20.27. If metal ladders or wood ladders with metal reinforced siderails are used, are they
  stored away from electrical equipment and are the side rails of metal ladders stenciled
  ―DANGER-DO NOT USE AROUND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT‖? Reference 30.6.5
  30.20.28. When working close to energized overhead power lines, are procedures in place to
  prevent equipment or aerial lifts from violating minimum distances? Reference 30.7.1
  30.20.29. Are workers assigned duties that require climbing poles or structures trained?
  Reference 30.9.3.1
606                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  30.20.30. When performing work on aerial communication cable and antenna systems, are
  safety observers current in climbing certification? Reference 30.9.7
  30.20.31. Prior to climbing communication poles or antenna supports, are workers equipped
  and wearing suitable PPE? Reference 30.9.12
  30.20.32. Are natural fiber, nylon, or wire ropes inspected for deterioration, fraying or
  broken strands prior to use and discarded if found to be unsafe? References 30.9.18.3
  30.20.33. During work on or near radomes, are personnel required to wear hard hats and
  safety-toed shoes? Reference 30.9.20
  30.20.34. Are workers instructed in the hazards of non-ionizing radiation associated with
  radar and microwave equipment? Reference 30.15.1
  30.20.35. Are workers instructed on the hazards of working with RF transmitters and
  antennas? Reference 30.15.2
  30.20.36. Do workers check handlines for serviceability prior to use? Reference 30.17.6
  30.20.37. Do workers wear safety straps and harnesses when working on elevated work
  platforms? Reference 30.17.7
  30.20.38. Do workers wear insulating rubber gloves when handling suspension strand that is
  being installed on joint-use poles? Reference 30.17.7
  30.20.39. Prior to operating a special purpose vehicle, is the vehicle visually inspected for
  serviceability, condition, correct assembly for the operation, proper storage of equipment and
  worn equipment? Reference 30.18.1
  30.20.40. Prior to the operation of a winch, is a safety observer positioned in the front and
  well clear of the winch being used? Reference 30.18.2
  30.20.41. When operating a truck-mounted winch, is the vehicle operator trained and
  familiar with the operation of a winch gear train and power takeoff lever movement?
  Reference 30.18.2
  30.20.42. Do winch operators wear leather palm gloves when handling a winch line?
  Reference 30.18.2.1
  30.20.43. Prior to use, do winch operators inspect the winch line for defects such as broken
  or worn strands, kinks, flat spots and worn eye loops? Reference 30.18.2.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          607



                                           Chapter 31

   BATTERIES – MAINTENANCE, HANDLING AND STORAGE REQUIREMENTS

31.1. General Information. This standard provides basic background information for safe
battery operations and is not intended to be all-inclusive. Much of the following information is
derived from TO 8D2-62-1, Operation and Maintenance Instructions with IPB – Naval Aircraft
and Naval Aircraft Support Equipment Storage Batteries, and other documents which provide
additional guidance for aircraft and support equipment battery operations.
   31.1.1. Air Force battery shops, rooms and areas contain space and equipment for shipping,
   receiving, cleaning, charging, discharging, storing and repairing storage batteries for aircraft,
   vehicles and ground support equipment. Personnel engaged in these activities shall use
   approved Air Force TOs. Commercial manufacturer‘s manuals are not authorized for Air
   Force use on aircraft batteries and must be converted to TO guidance by the appropriate AF
   Engineering Support Specialist or Systems Program Office (SPO).
   31.1.2. The battery shop, room or area shall be designed to eliminate certain hazards
   associated with battery maintenance and shall conform to the specific requirements in this
   document and 29 CFR 1910.178, Powered Industrial Trucks, 29 CFR 1926.403, General
   Requirements (Electrical), 29 CFR 1926.441, Batteries and Battery Charging, NFPA 70,
   National Electrical Code, including Articles 480, Storage Batteries, and Chapter 5, Special
   Occupancies, which includes Article 500, Hazardous (Classified) Locations, Article 501,
   Class I Locations, and Article 503.14, Storage – Battery Charging Equipment. The
   installation Ground Safety office, BE, Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight and
   Environmental Management office shall evaluate and certify battery rooms, shops or areas to
   ensure they conform to safe design and operating practices. Refer to the provisions of AFH
   32-1084, Facilities Requirements, paragraphs 7.6.1. through 7.6.5., for additional guidance.
   31.1.3. Whenever a facility deficiency is identified, appropriate controls and corrective
   actions are required. If the deficiency involves a local requirement and cannot be corrected, a
   waiver letter shall be obtained from the applicable base agency. For deficiencies involving
   AF or AFOSH requirements, identify the deficiency to the parent Numbered Air Force or
   MAJCOM for additional guidance on resolving the deficiency.
31.2. Safety.
   31.2.1. Appropriate PPE, approved and certified in BE‘s OEH risk assessment, shall be worn
   whenever charging, maintaining, removing and/or replacing batteries. PPE required when
   working with batteries shall be documented IAW AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap
   Prevention Program. PPE is required when:
       31.2.1.1. Cleaning batteries, battery connection points and/or cables, servicing fluid
       level, connecting or disconnecting a battery charger at the battery, jump-starting a battery
       installed in a vehicle or piece of equipment, or any other type of service activity, requires
       ANSI Z87.1 approved eye protection with side shields. When handling electrolyte, a face
       shield, splash resistant chemical goggles and chemical resistant gloves and apron shall be
       worn. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional
       guidance and information.
608                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      31.2.1.2. Handling vented lead acid vehicle or support equipment batteries (removing or
      installing in vehicles or equipment or transporting them) or when working in the battery
      room or maintenance area, requires personnel to wear acid resistant gloves, arm
      gauntlets, aprons, face protection and ANSI Z87.1 approved eye protection with side
      shields. Acid resistant safety shoes or acid resistant rubber knee length safety toed boots
      shall also be worn. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance and information.
  31.2.2. Electrical components and systems shall be de-energized and isolated from other
  energized circuits and/or power sources before working on, servicing, removing or replacing
  a battery, unless specifically directed by a TO or specific requirement.
  31.2.3. In areas where battery maintenance is performed on a regular basis, a permanent
  eyewash station shall be installed. If battery electrolyte comes in contact with the skin, the
  worker shall immediately flush the skin with tepid water. If electrolyte is splashed into the
  eyes, they shall be flushed with tepid water for at least 15 minutes. The worker shall seek
  immediate medical attention. Note: Portable eyewash stations shall be located in areas not
  affected by extreme temperatures (under 60°F or over 95°F), unless protected from such
  temperature extremes.
  31.2.4. Battery Safety Practices. Nickel cadmium and silver-zinc batteries shall be serviced
  in an area isolated from lead-acid batteries. When both acid and potassium hydroxide
  electrolyte batteries are handled in the same shop, specific equipment for the two kinds of
  batteries shall be kept separate and carefully labeled. Tools and implements used to service
  nickel-cadmium, silver-zinc, nickel-iron or other alkaline batteries shall be used on those
  types only. Note: Basic safety practices for all lead-acid batteries are similar and only vary
  with specialized construction or conditions of use. Therefore, guidance given for one type of
  battery usage can and shall be followed with other uses, when applicable.
  31.2.5. Battery Equipment and Charging Operations. Only trained and qualified personnel
  shall be permitted to change, maintain or charge batteries. Personnel assigned to the battery
  shop shall be qualified on all equipment and TO procedures. Qualification shall be
  documented in their individual training records. Only qualified personnel or those
  accompanied by qualified personnel shall be allowed access to battery shops, rooms or areas.
  Refer to ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
  Operations and Maintenance and NFPA 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance, for
  additional guidance and information.
      31.2.5.1. Battery charging operations shall be conducted in adequately ventilated areas
      designated for that purpose.
      31.2.5.2. ―No Smoking‖ signs shall be posted in plain view of incoming personnel, to
      prohibit smoking in the charging area.
      31.2.5.3. Tools and other metallic objects shall be kept away from the top of uncovered
      batteries.
      31.2.5.4. When charging batteries, the vent caps shall be kept in place to avoid
      electrolyte spray.
      31.2.5.5. The battery compartment or covers shall be open to dissipate heat.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        609



   31.2.6. Servicing Batteries. Servicing of batteries, i.e., changing and charging, shall only be
   performed by trained and qualified equipment operators. If services other than removal and
   replacement of batteries are performed, operators shall wear appropriate protective
   equipment, i.e., rubber apron, face shield and gloves. Additionally, when working with
   corrosives, an emergency shower or eyewash unit shall be provided for emergency use.
   Rings, watches and similar jewelry shall not be worn. Refer to Chapter 19, Emergency
   Shower and Eyewash Units, for additional information on emergency showers and eyewash
   units.
31.3. General Facility and Equipment Requirements for Battery Rooms and Areas. A
battery shop, room or area is where batteries are charged, maintained or stored. The shop, room
or area shall be sized to accommodate the operation and workload. Storage batteries shall be
located within a protective enclosure or area accessible only to qualified personnel. There are
three common lead-acid battery technologies: flooded, gel and absorbed glass mat. A valve-
regulated lead-acid (VRLA) battery, i.e., the absorbed glass mat (AGM) and the gel battery (gel
cell), is a type of low-maintenance lead-acid rechargeable battery. Because of their construction,
VRLA batteries do not require regular addition of water to the cells. The charging, maintaining
or storage of the VRLA batteries shall follow the manufacturer‘s recommendations and
guidance. The requirements apply to flooded (wet) lead-acid batteries.
   31.3.1. Emergency Eyewash. Procedures shall be developed for flushing and neutralizing
   spilled electrolyte in work areas where batteries are charged, maintained or stored.
   Emergency eyewash and/or water facilities for rinsing eyes and skin shall be provided in the
   battery charging rooms and areas IAW Chapter 19, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units.
   31.3.2. The FES Flight shall prescribe the quantity and placement of extinguishers for
   battery shops, rooms or areas based on the size of the operation. Battery shops shall have
   ready sources of running tap water, with a hose provided for washing the work area and
   emergency eyewash/showers.
   31.3.3. Exit Doors. Battery shop, room or area doors shall swing outwards.
   31.3.4. Floors shall be of acid-alkali-resistant construction or be protected from acid-alkali
   accumulations. Floors, walls, ceilings, doors and other painted surfaces in battery rooms and
   areas shall be painted with an acid-alkali-resistant epoxy-poly-urethane paint. Note: The
   battery shop can be painted any color. It is highly suggested to paint the floors gray and the
   walls white. An acid-alkali-resistant epoxy-poly-urethane paint with primer (i.e., Grainger
   Company, or equivalent, as listed below) shall be used. These paints provide the most
   protection against corrosion. Always follow the manufacturer‘s Technical Data Sheets, the
   applicable Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) and the Electro-Environmental Maintenance
   Standardization Evaluation Program (MSEP) checklist for these paints. Also, refer to TO
   8D2-1-31, Operation, Service Instruction (Shop Manual) – Aircraft Storage Batteries (Lead-
   Acid Batteries), for additional guidance and information.
Paint Color                                         Part Number
WHITE (primer)                                      4CJ36
GRAY (primer)                                       4CT32
Activator (1 can activator to 1 can of paint)       4CH84
610                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  31.3.5. All mechanical equipment and fixtures shall be designed and specified to withstand
  the corrosive acid-alkali atmosphere from battery operations.
  31.3.6. Racks and Tools. Racks used to support batteries during charging shall be made of or
  coated with non-sparking materials and designed to permit free access for servicing batteries.
  Metal racks shall be protected with an acid-alkali resistive coating and the actual supports on
  which a battery rests shall be made of non-conductive materials or be suitably insulated. To
  facilitate battery handling and proper maintenance, low racks (close to the floor) shall be
  used when feasible. Tools used during battery charging or servicing shall be non-conductive
  or coated with non-conductive materials.
  31.3.7. Work Surfaces. Work surfaces shall be non-conductive, and resistant to both acid
  and alkali. Whenever possible, battery servicing and maintenance shall be performed on
  elevated, non-conductive racks. These racks shall allow air to flow under the battery to
  provide additional cooling to dissipate heat generated during charging and discharging.
  31.3.8. Charging Bench Floor Matting. Provide three-foot wide non-slip matting in front of
  all charging benches. The matting protects personnel from electric shock and slipping
  hazards. Matting shall conform to TO 00-25-232, Control and Use of Insulating Matting for
  High-Voltage Application.
  31.3.9. Warning signs shall be posted inside and outside the battery shop, room or area,
  prohibiting smoking, sparks or flame-producing items. Signs shall also be posted warning of
  electric shock and slipping hazards. For guidance on construction and use of warning signs,
  refer to Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags.
  31.3.10. Battery Chargers.
      31.3.10.1. Chargers shall be turned off before a battery is connected or disconnected.
      Failure to follow this practice can cause sparks, arcing and pitting of contact surfaces of
      mating plugs or connectors. Connections between a battery and charger shall be through a
      mating plug or connector assembly.
      31.3.10.2. Some multiple battery and charger installations are equipped with polarized
      connectors of identical form on the battery and charger cables. Workers shall trace each
      plug or connector assembly back to its original source to ensure the correct
      interconnection between the battery and charger. This practice shall also be used to
      prevent inadvertent connection of two batteries or two chargers.
      31.3.10.3. If charger or battery connectors are the same, additional steps shall be taken.
      Some connectors are available in various colors to identify a series of integral,
      mechanical interlocks, while others can be field-equipped with interlocking voltage keys
      to avoid improper voltage connections. If interlocking devices are not available,
      consideration shall be given to another means of identification, such as number coding.
      31.3.10.4. To prevent ignition of accumulated gases, work shall not be conducted on
      batteries while they are being charged or discharged unless otherwise specified by the
      applicable TO.
      31.3.10.5. Before performing work on charger plug contacts, workers shall ensure
      chargers are turned off and disconnected from the input power source. Refer to Chapter
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         611



      21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), for additional lockout/tagout
      guidance.
      31.3.10.6. Provide chargers in the battery charging area ample ventilation and protection
      from damage by nearby vehicles, hand trucks or batteries. Charger leads shall be kept off
      the floor and out of aisles to avoid damage and potential tripping hazards. Overhead
      leads shall be plainly marked and be high enough to keep personnel from walking into
      them.
      31.3.10.7. A carboy tilter or siphon shall be provided for handling electrolyte.
      31.3.10.8. When charging batteries, acid shall be poured into water; water shall NOT be
      poured into acid. Warning: A severe reaction occurs when water is poured into acid and
      splattering of the acid can cause acid burns on exposed personnel. When pouring acid, the
      required PPE shall be worn. Refer to paragraph 31.2.1 for further guidance.
31.4. Fire Protection and Prevention.
   31.4.1. Explosive Hazards. Always assume explosive gases exist in and around batteries,
   unless positive steps have been taken to eliminate them. For this reason, smoking, open
   flames, sparks, arcs and other sources of ignition shall be prohibited in the immediate vicinity
   of batteries that are being charged or discharged. The following ignition sources shall not be
   permitted in the vicinity of batteries:
      31.4.1.1. Sparks, from any source, which could ignite explosive gases in or around
      batteries. Avoid shorting out a battery with metal tools or objects. Extreme care must be
      taken not to short out a battery with tools or metal objects.
      31.4.1.2. Sparks from connecting or disconnecting batteries while they are in use, i.e.,
      jump-starting a vehicle. Also, connecting or disconnecting a battery from a charger
      before turning the charger off, or while removing or installing a battery in a vehicle when
      current is flowing in the battery circuit.
      31.4.1.3. Sparks occurring during vent cap removal. Combustible gases shall be flushed
      out of each cell with a gentle stream of air, i.e., by fanning each vent opening with a stiff
      piece of cardboard or other suitable non-conductor.
      31.4.1.4. Sparks or short circuits in the presence of flammable or combustible liquids. If
      installing or replacing electrical components in the presence of flammable or combustible
      liquids, the worker shall keep battery ground cable disconnected until liquids are no
      longer present.
      31.4.1.5. Sparks occurring when cleaning batteries or terminals. Never clean batteries
      with metal brushes or other metal devices which may generate sparks or contact both
      terminals and short circuit the cells.
31.5. Ventilation Systems.
   31.5.1. Battery shops, rooms and areas shall be ventilated, either by a natural or powered
   ventilation system, for dispersal of airborne contaminants from batteries. The ventilation
   system shall ensure the maximum gas-air mixture generated during charging is maintained
   below 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL). The ventilation system shall provide for
 612                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   automatic cutoff of charging equipment if the ventilation blower or fan fails. BE‘s OEH risk
   assessment will identify ventilation needs for battery shops, rooms and areas IAW ACGIH‘s
   Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and
   Maintenance. Note: NEC Article 480.9(A), Ventilation, requires adequate ventilation to
   prevent classification of a battery location as a hazardous (classified) location. Without
   adequate ventilation, NEC Article 500, Hazardous (Classified) Locations, requires
   installation of explosion proof lighting fixtures and receptacles.
   31.5.2. Ventilation in battery charging rooms shall be sufficient to keep batteries and
   chargers from overheating and shall conform to applicable local codes and ordinances.
   Ventilation in battery charging rooms shall be sufficient to keep rooms or areas maintained
   between 68° F and 85° F, unless permitted by a TO or other appropriate guidance. Consult
   the installation Ground Safety office, BE, CE and Environmental Management office for
   guidance on ventilation requirements.
   31.5.3. Vented lead-acid and vented nickel-cadmium (NICAD) battery rooms, shops or areas
   shall have their own ventilation systems. They cannot share a ventilation system. This
   ventilation system shall be either a natural or powered ventilation system, which must be able
   to disperse airborne contaminants from gassing batteries.
   31.5.4. Floor fans with explosion-proof motors can help keep battery temperatures from
   rising above 120° F. Batteries shall never be operated, charged or discharged at temperatures
   above 120° F, if normal service life is expected.
31.6. Storage and Handling.
   31.6.1. Chemical Spills and Environmental Issues.
       31.6.1.1. Precautions shall be taken to prevent the electrolyte from spilling. Batteries
       shall not be laid on their side unless permitted by TO. Batteries shall not be transported
       without being properly secured with straps or other restraint devices.
       31.6.1.2. BE shall provide instructions on how to flush and neutralize electrolyte spilled
       on workers. Spill control procedures shall be developed and coordinated with the
       installation Ground Safety office, BE, CE and Environmental Management office.
       31.6.1.3. Dispose of waste batteries and fluids in a manner consistent with approved
       hazardous waste disposal procedures and applicable environmental regulations. Contact
       the installation Environmental Management office for waste disposal guidance.
   31.6.2. Vented lead-acid and vented NICAD batteries shall be maintained and stored in
   separate rooms or areas. The battery shop supervisor shall ensure all visitors entering the
   battery shop receive a safety briefing on the hazards located in the battery room or area
   before entry is authorized. If maintenance is performed while visitors are in the battery shop,
   the visitors shall also wear required PPE as prescribed in paragraph 31.2.1.
   31.6.3. Sealed lead-acid batteries and sealed NICAD batteries do not require a dedicated
   battery room or area, and can be charged in the same battery room or area as long as a five-
   foot minimum clearance is maintained between the different batteries. A sealed lead-acid
   battery can be charged in a dedicated NICAD battery shop as long as a minimum distance of
   five feet is maintained between the different battery chemistries.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        613



   31.6.4. The electrolyte in lead-acid batteries contains water. These batteries are subject to
   damage in freezing temperatures and shall be stored in temperature-controlled areas. Lower
   battery charges shall allow for freezing at higher temperatures.
   31.6.5. Batteries of different chemistries shall be stored as directed by the installation
   Ground Safety office, BE, CE and Environmental Management office. Ensure NICAD and
   silver-zinc batteries are serviced in areas isolated from lead-acid batteries. Batteries of
   different chemistries must be kept at least five feet apart when charging, discharging or being
   serviced.
   31.6.6. Batteries received during cold weather or which cannot be disposed of during warm
   weather, shall be stored in heated or protected storage areas (temperature-controlled) to avoid
   broken cases and/or contamination of storage areas from electrolyte spill caused by freezing
   or overheating.
   31.6.7. Industrial motive power batteries vary widely in the number of cells, size, weight and
   configuration. Handling these batteries is different from handling automobile batteries and
   shall not be attempted without proper equipment. The battery weight is usually stamped on
   the steel tray near one of the lifting ears. The battery manufacturer shall be consulted if the
   weight of a battery is not known and it cannot be weighed.
31.7. Electrical.
   31.7.1. Electrical test equipment shall be de-energized prior to being disconnected from
   energized circuits or power sources unless specifically directed by the appropriate TO.
   31.7.2. Receptacles and lighting switches shall be located outside the battery maintenance or
   storage area. Lighting fixtures shall be protected from physical damage by guards or
   isolation.
   31.7.3. Flexible cords used for charging shall be suitable for the type of service used and
   approved for extra-hard usage. Connectors shall have a rating not less than the current-
   carrying capacity of the cord.
   31.7.4. Refer to Chapter 9, Jewelry, on the wear of jewelry and eyeglasses/safety goggles.
31.8. Installation and Care of Vehicle and Support Equipment Batteries.
   31.8.1. Proper installation and care of batteries shall help ensure maximum life and
   performance. Batteries shall always be installed in a level position to prevent leakage of
   electrolyte. Excessive tightening of hold-down brackets can distort or crack the battery case.
   Cable clamps shall not be pounded on battery terminals, but shall be spread until they can be
   seated properly. Battery housings shall be free of dirt, moisture, corrosion and electrolyte to
   prevent self-discharge of the battery. When handling batteries, take precautions not to short
   the battery terminals together.
   31.8.2. When removing a battery from a vehicle, the battery ground cable shall be
   disconnected FIRST to prevent the possibility of a spark. Upon reinstallation, the battery
   ground cable shall be installed and tightened LAST to prevent a short or spark and possible
   explosion. Caution: Some vehicles have two or more batteries, hooked in parallel, with
   one or more of the batteries remotely located. When the positive and negative cables are
   removed from one battery, the spark potential can still exist until the ground cable has been
614                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  removed from the other batteries. Personnel shall consult the appropriate TO to determine
  the number of batteries within the vehicle or equipment before maintenance is performed.
  31.8.3. Use straps for lifting and carrying batteries. If straps cannot be used, exercise
  extreme caution when lifting to prevent worker strain, particularly when removing batteries
  installed in vehicles. When possible, use two people to handle batteries located in places that
  put a person in an awkward position or if the battery weighs more than 25 pounds.
  31.8.4. Use mechanical lifting devices when handling batteries that cannot be safely handled
  by two people. Chain hoists that are used to handle batteries shall have a chain container or
  bucket to prevent the dangling chain from shorting out a battery.
  31.8.5. When removing or replacing a battery, if there is a possibility of shorting out the
  battery, the battery terminals shall be covered with a non-conductive material, such as rubber
  or a piece of plywood.
  31.8.6. Ensure tools and other metallic objects are kept away from the top of uncovered
  batteries and stored such that there is no possibility the tool will fall on the batteries.
  31.8.7. Vent Cap Maintenance. Vent caps are designed to help keep the electrolyte or
  chemical paste within the battery and to keep dirt and other contaminants out. Vent caps shall
  be kept clean and firmly in place to avoid electrolyte spray, unless authorized by the
  applicable TO. 31.8.8. Vehicle Battery Jump-Starting. Battery jump-starting procedures
  shall only be accomplished by trained and qualified personnel. Follow TO guidance for
  proper jump-start procedures. If not available, follow manufacturer‘s guidance. If
  manufacturer‘s guidance is not available, follow steps in Figure 31.1, Jump-Start Diagram.
  Workers shall identify the positive and negative terminals on both batteries. Improper
  connections may cause a large flaming spark and cause both batteries to explode. Note:
  Workers shall NOT connect positive (+) to negative (-) or negative (-) to positive (+) when
  jump-starting a vehicle. Jumper cables shall be grasped by the insulated handles and not by
  the bare metal ends. Additionally, workers shall not place their heads close to the battery
  when connecting jumper cables.
  31.8.8. Exercise care when handling and storing batteries to prevent damage to the cases and
  to avoid electrolyte spills. Caution: Use care when handling broken battery cases to avoid
  acid-alkali burns from spilled electrolyte. When handling damaged batteries, follow specific
  equipment TO maintenance procedures for damaged batteries.
  31.8.9. The battery in most industrial trucks also serves as a counterweight for the carried
  load. A replacement battery shall never be installed when its service weight is not within the
  range of battery weights marked on the truck nameplate. A lighter weight battery could
  change the truck‘s center of gravity and upset a loaded truck.
  31.8.10. Batteries encased in steel trays have lifting holes for moving the battery. Lifting
  devices shall be designed so vertical lifting stresses are confined to the battery tray. Lifting
  batteries with two chains attached to a hoist at a single central point (to form a triangle with
  the battery) is unsafe. Not only does the safe load capacity of a double sling decrease as the
  angle increases, but the angular stress on the lifting ears of the battery may cause the chain
  hook to tear out of the steel battery case. A properly insulated spreader bar, or other device as
  permitted by the applicable TO or manufacturer‘s instructions, of ample size shall be used
  with any overhead hoist.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        615



   31.8.11. Before a battery is removed from a truck or is recharged in a truck, the electrical
   circuit of the truck shall be open, the battery unplugged from the truck and the brakes set or
   the wheels chocked. When moving a battery to a recharging location by overhead crane, the
   battery shall not be pulled or led by the battery cables. Personnel shall not stand under
   suspended loads.
   31.8.12. When an enclosed/covered battery is charged, the cover of the steel tray of the
   battery shall always be kept open throughout the entire recharging period. If a battery
   remains in the truck for recharging, all battery compartment covers of the truck shall be kept
   open to help promote cooling of the battery and release of the gases freed during the
   recharging process. Excessive charging of batteries shall not be permitted, as hydrogen gas is
   generated. Batteries shall not be disassembled when taken directly from the charger or
   worked on immediately after being discharged under a heavy load. In either case, the battery
   may be off-gassing rapidly and may explode if an ignition source is present.
   31.8.13. The contact surface of mating plugs or connectors on vehicles/equipment, batteries
   and chargers shall be maintained free of pitting or oxidation to prevent a high-resistance
   contact condition. Such a condition can result in a decrease of voltage delivered to the truck,
   with possible premature or sudden stopping of the vehicle. This could be a hazard if rapid
   withdrawal from a hazardous situation is required. Any work on battery plug contacts shall
   include precautions to avoid shorting out the battery.
   31.8.14. Visual inspections are usually sufficient to determine the condition of contacts,
   which shall be cleaned or replaced if they show evidence of oxidation or pitting. Excessive
   heating of current-carrying parts indicates a poor electrical contact which shall be
   investigated.
31.9. Aircraft Battery and Electrical System Specific Requirements.
   31.9.1. Aircraft Electrical System Maintenance. Only personnel qualified on aircraft battery
   and electrical systems shall perform maintenance on aircraft battery and electrical systems.
   Potential hazards involving aircraft electrical system maintenance include: overloading, poor
   electrical contacts and wiring short circuits. Specialists shall follow TO guidance whenever
   troubleshooting aircraft electrical systems. When the TO does not cover a specific
   troubleshooting procedure, reference the aircraft wiring schematics. The specialists shall
   exercise extreme caution and ensure each step of the TO is followed before proceeding to the
   next step.
   31.9.2. Electrical systems shall be de-energized whenever possible. If the approved
   procedure requires work on an energized circuit, the sequence of steps shall be followed and
   other maintenance personnel must be informed of this action. If the system has been de-
   energized, procedures shall include a provision to effectively lockout or tagout the power
   source while work is in progress. An AF Form 1492, Warning Tag, authorized by AFI 21-
   101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, shall be used IAW local
   procedures. Refer to Chapter 29 for additional guidance.
   31.9.3. Aircraft Battery Shop Requirements. Batteries shall never be charged while in the
   aircraft, unless permitted by the aircraft TO. Batteries being charged, battery chargers and
   their control equipment shall not be positioned in Class I locations as classified in NFPA 70,
 616                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   National Electrical Code, 511-3, Class 1 Locations, or defined in NEC 513-3, Wiring and
   Equipment in Class 1 Locations. These locations include pits or depressions below floor
   level, areas from floor level up to 18 inches above the floor and within 5 feet of aircraft fuel
   vents, tanks or engines. Chargers shall be located in a separate building or in an area (as
   described in NEC 513-3) which is adequately ventilated and effectively separated from the
   hangar, shelter or nose dock by walls or partitions. Battery chargers shall carry at least one
   permanently affixed warning sign which reads: Warning—Keep 25 Feet Clear of Aircraft
   Engines and Fuel Tank Areas.

Figure 31.1. Jump-Start Diagram.




31.10. Batteries – Maintenance, Handling and Storage Requirements Checklist. This is not
an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items
contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist.
Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to
this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or
situations.
   31.10.1. Is appropriate PPE used when charging, maintaining, removing or replacing
   batteries? Reference 31.2.1
   31.10.2. Is ANSI Z87.1 approved eye protection with side shields worn when servicing,
   jump-starting batteries or connecting or disconnecting a battery charger at the battery?
   Reference 31.2.1.1
   31.10.3. Do workers wear a face shield, splash resistant chemical goggles and chemical
   resistant gloves and apron when handling electrolyte? Reference 31.2.1.1
   31.10.4. Do workers wear acid resistant gloves, arm gauntlets, aprons, face protection and
   ANSI Z87.1 approved eye protection with side shields when handling vehicle or support
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      617



  equipment batteries, or working in the battery room or maintenance areas? Reference
  31.2.1.2
  31.10.5. Are battery and charging system electrical components and systems de-energized
  and isolated from other energized circuits or power sources, unless specifically directed by a
  TO, before being worked on? Reference 31.2.2
  31.10.6. Do exit doors of battery shops/rooms swing outwards? Reference 31.3.3
  31.10.7. Are warning signs posted inside and outside the battery room prohibiting smoking,
  sparks, flames and warning of electric shock and slipping hazards? Reference 31.3.9
  31.10.8. Are battery chargers turned off before connecting or disconnecting batteries?
  Reference 31.3.10.1
  31.10.9. Do workers ensure battery chargers are turned off and disconnected from the input
  power source before performing work on charger plug contacts? Reference 31.3.10.5
  31.10.10. Does management ensure vented lead-acid and vented NICAD battery rooms have
  their own separate ventilation systems? Reference 31.5.3
  31.10.11. When removing a battery from a vehicle, is the battery ground cable(s)
  disconnected first to prevent the possibility of a spark? Reference 31.8.2
  31.10.12. Are mechanical lifting devices used on batteries that cannot be safely handled by
  two people? Reference 31.8.4
  31.10.13. Is jump-starting of vehicles only accomplished by qualified personnel? Reference
  31.8.8
  31.10.14. Do workers adhere to the Note against connecting positive (+) terminal to negative
  (-) terminal and vice versa when jump-starting a vehicle? Reference 31.8.8
  31.10.15. Do workers exercise care when handling broken battery cases to avoid the
  possibility of acid-alkali burns from spilled electrolyte? Reference 31.8.9
  31.10.16. Do workers ensure the electrical circuit of the vehicle/equipment is open, the
  battery is unplugged from the vehicle/equipment and the brakes set or wheels chocked,
  before a battery is removed or recharged in the vehicle/equipment? Reference 31.8.12
  31.10.17. Do workers ensure the cover of the steel battery tray is kept open throughout the
  recharging period when an enclosed/covered battery is charged? Reference 31.8.13
  31.10.18. Is the contact surface of mating plugs or connectors on vehicles/equipment,
  batteries and chargers maintained free of pitting or oxidation to prevent high-resistance
  contact? Reference 31.8.14
  31.10.19. Do specialists follow TO guidance when troubleshooting aircraft electrical
  systems? Reference 31.9.1
  31.10.20. Are batteries not charged while in the aircraft, except as permitted by the aircraft
  TO? Reference 31.9.3
 618                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 32

               MOTOR VEHICLE—OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE

32.1. Specific Hazards.
   32.1.1. Vehicle maintenance hazards include hazardous noise, compressed gases,
   pressurized air, toxic materials, flammable or explosive mists, particulates and vapors.
   During servicing of single piece rim wheels, pressurized air in the tire may release suddenly
   either by bead break-in or by the bead slipping over the rim flange. Brake and clutch
   assemblies on military vehicles may contain asbestos, which poses an inhalation hazard.
   Inhalation of mists and vapors from nearly all fuels, paints, solvents, thinners, cleaning
   chemicals, strippers and epoxies can be hazardous depending upon the material‘s toxic
   characteristics and amount and method of exposure. Further, many chemicals/solvents can
   cause skin irritations, burns and/or defatting of the skin. These chemicals/solvents can also be
   absorbed through the skin and cause internal damage. In addition, paints containing epoxy or
   polyurethanes can cause worker sensitization, which causes an allergic reaction to a given
   substance. Sensitivity usually occurs after exposure of a few days to a few months. After
   sensitivity is established, exposure to even a small amount of the sensitizing material will
   likely produce a severe reaction. Refer to AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, and Chapter
   3, Physical Hazards, for additional guidance and information on chemical exposures.
   32.1.2. Compressed Gas Hazards. Compressed gases can be hazardous. Depending on the
   particular gas, there is a potential for simultaneous exposure to both chemical and mechanical
   hazards. Gases may be combustible, explosive, corrosive, poisonous, inert or a combination
   of hazards. If the gas is flammable, flash points lower than room temperature compounded by
   high rates of diffusion (which allow for fast permeation throughout the laboratory) present a
   danger of fire or explosion. High concentrations of seemingly ―harmless‖ gases such as
   nitrogen can pose an asphyxiation hazard. Since compressed gases are contained in heavy,
   highly pressurized metal containers, the large amount of potential energy makes the cylinder
   a potential rocket or fragmentation bomb. Gas cylinders shall be properly identified, handled
   and secured. Vehicle maintenance personnel shall be aware of proper procedures for
   handling the various compressed gases, the cylinders containing the compressed gases,
   regulators or valves used to control gas flow, and associated piping systems. TO 42B5-1-2,
   Gas Cylinders (Storage Type) Use, Handling and Maintenance, provides gas cylinder
   precaution guidance.
   32.1.3. Tool misuse or abuse and failure to properly use protective equipment can cause eye
   injuries, lacerations, punctures, burns, pinching and bruises. These mishaps result from:
       32.1.3.1. Catching fingers, hair, necktie and other loose clothing or jewelry in moving
       pulleys and belts in the fan area.
       32.1.3.2. Removing radiator cap on an overheated engine. Caution: Removing the
       radiator cap from a vehicle that has been operating (hot engine) is equally dangerous, i.e.,
       fluids are hot and under pressure.
       32.1.3.3. Working under vehicles without safety glasses or goggles, thus allowing rust or
       other debris to fall into the eyes.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        619



      32.1.3.4. Elevating a vehicle using jacks or ramps that are not resting on a firm, level
      surface.
      32.1.3.5. Crawling under a vehicle supported only by a jack and not using jack stands for
      additional support.
      32.1.3.6. Placing hands or feet directly under the wheel while changing a flat tire.
      32.1.3.7. Peering directly into the throat of a carburetor when engine is running, resulting
      in face and hair burns or eye damage (or both) if engine backfires through the carburetor.
      32.1.3.8. Leaving creepers on the floor.
      32.1.3.9. Failing to properly deflate tires on split rim wheels before dismantling for
      repairs.
32.2. General Safety.
   32.2.1. Vehicle maintenance personnel shall not wear neckties, loose flowing clothing, loose
   sleeves or gloves which can become entangled when working on or around shop equipment
   or vehicles. Open footwear and canvas or cloth shoes without safety toes shall not be worn in
   maintenance shops. Long hair (including facial hair) or pony tails shall be secured to prevent
   becoming tangled when working around shop equipment or vehicles.
   32.2.2. Compressed air shall not be used to clean dirt and dust from clothing or the body.
   Compressed air shall be regulated to less than 30 psi when used for cleaning and only when
   effective chip guarding is used. Appropriate eye protection shall be worn at all times while
   using compressed air.
   32.2.3. Mechanics shall never place any part of their body directly under the wheels or tires
   of a vehicle on jacks without jack stands being in place .
   32.2.4. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping is essential to safe operations. Vehicle
   maintenance operations are prone to oil spillage, debris on work surfaces and cleaning
   materials and tools lying around. Housekeeping requirements include:
      32.2.4.1. Clean up spills promptly.
      32.2.4.2. Perform motor vehicle maintenance activities, such as painting, welding,
      battery work and wheel and tire maintenance in separate parts of the shop, where one
      type of operation will not become hazardous to another.
      32.2.4.3. Paint rooms, booths, etc., shall be kept clean with equipment stored in a proper
      and orderly manner.
      32.2.4.4. Keep street clothing and protective clothing in separate lockers. Work clothing
      shall be stored in metal lockers, vented at top and bottom.
      32.2.4.5. Approved self-closing metal waste containers shall be provided wherever rags
      or waste are impregnated with flammable or combustible materials and all such rags or
      waste deposited therein immediately after use. IAW AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous Waste
      Management Guide, and 29 CFR 1910.107(g)(3), the contents of waste containers shall
      be disposed of at least once daily or at the end of each shift. Contact the installation
      Environmental Management office for waste disposal guidance.
 620                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       32.2.4.6. All flammable and combustible materials stored in vehicle maintenance shops
       shall be kept in tightly covered metal containers IAW Chapter 22, Flammables and
       Combustibles. Refer to Chapter 5, Housekeeping, for additional guidance on
       housekeeping.
       32.2.4.7. Floor surfaces shall be cleaned as often as necessary to maintain a safe walking
       surface. Personal protective equipment (PPE) shall be worn whenever toxic or hazardous
       cleaning materials are used. As a minimum, eye protection, nonslip rubber boots and
       rubber gloves shall be worn.
   32.2.5. Where snow and ice conditions are present, personnel shall keep walkways,
   emergency exits and personnel and vehicle door openings free of snow and ice. If these areas
   become slippery, they shall be treated with sand, ashes, calcium chloride or other similar
   materials. Overhangs above personnel walkways or doorways and vehicle entrances and exits
   shall be kept free of ice or snow that could fall and injure personnel or damage equipment.
   Install icefall protection in hard to access areas. Snow removal equipment and other vehicles
   with large amounts of snow and ice accumulation on the vehicle shall be brought into the
   shop and snow or ice allowed to melt before repairs are started. If this is not practical, the
   vehicles shall be washed with water to remove snow and ice. Melted snow and ice deposits
   from each vehicle shall be washed down the floor drains before work is started or another
   vehicle is moved into the area. In areas where maintenance on vehicles during winter months
   causes constantly wet floors, the floor surface shall be covered with nonskid materials, if
   possible.
   32.2.6. PPE shall be kept clean and, if not individually issued, shall be prominently
   displayed and/or stored in the immediate vicinity where its use is required.
   32.2.7. The vehicle maintenance supervisor shall ensure all personnel are trained in the care
   and use of PPE and shall enforce its use.
   32.2.8. Table 32.1 lists frequently occurring operations where the use of PPE shall be
   locally evaluated. The list is not all inclusive and local supervisors may need to identify
   additional work situations. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for
   additional guidance.
   32.2.9. Respiratory protection is required if prolonged breathing of chemical vapors, mists or
   fumes is expected or if working in confined spaces when the atmosphere is oxygen deficient
   or hazardous. A supplied breathing air system with quick access emergency egress air supply
   may be needed. BE‘s OEH risk assessment identifies recommended controls.. Refer to
   paragraph 2.3, ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
   Operations and Maintenance, and AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health
   Exposure Controls, for additional guidance.
32.3. Occupational Health.
   32.3.1. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance on hazardous noise or noise level
   surveys.
   32.3.2. Stationary internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall not be operated inside
   buildings unless an exhaust system, approved by BE, is installed and used. When equipment
   is operated adjacent to buildings, the exhaust shall be directed away from the building.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          621



   Ventilation shall be adequate to provide fresh air and prevent accumulation of JP-4, gasoline,
   carbon monoxide and other hydrocarbon vapors. Refer to paragraph 32.6 for additional
   guidance on ventilation.
   32.3.3. JP-4, JP-5, JP-8 and other jet engine fuels containing toxic aromatics shall be
   handled with the same precaution(s) as gasoline.
   32.3.4. Personal Hygiene. IAW 29 CFR 1910.134(g)(1)(i)(A), personnel required to wear
   tight-fitting respiratory protection must be clean shaven so facial hair does not interfere with
   the face-piece seal of the respirator. Personnel shall keep hands and faces clean, change
   clothes when contaminated and keep hands and soiled objects out of mouth. Do not bring or
   consume food or drink in paint and dope shops. Personnel shall wash their hands prior to
   smoking or consuming food.
   32.3.5. Manual Handling. Refer to Chapter 4, Manual Material Handling and Lifting
   Techniques, for additional information.
   32.3.6. First Aid.
      32.3.6.1. First aid kits shall be approved by base medical services. This item is required
      if work is over 3-4 minutes from the nearest medical facility. Note: OSHA‘s letter of
      interpretation for paragraph 1910.151(b) explains that a first aid kit is required if medical
      services are more than three to four minutes away.
      32.3.6.2. If hydrocarbon fuels, such as gasoline, E85, B20, JP-4, JP-5 and JP-8, are
      splashed or spilled onto personnel, the following steps shall be taken:
          32.3.6.2.1. Remove contaminated clothing as soon as possible and wash affected skin
          areas with soap and water. Launder contaminated clothing before wearing again. Do
          not place contaminated clothing in lockers or other confined spaces. Hang in a safe
          area away from fire and heat and allow to air dry.
          32.3.6.2.2. If fuel is splashed into the eyes, immediately flush eyes with water
          continuously for at least 15 minutes, then seek immediate medical attention.
          32.3.6.2.3. If fuels are swallowed, do not induce vomiting. Seek immediate medical
          attention.
   32.3.7. Exposure to high concentrations of tetraethyl lead (TEL) shall be avoided. While use
   of leaded gasoline is no longer permitted in over the road vehicles, it may still be used in off-
   road vehicles, support equipment and in aircraft. If process not already evaluated, contact BE
   for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance.
32.4. Facility and Equipment Requirements for Vehicle Maintenance Operations.
   32.4.1. Proper layout, spacing and arrangement of equipment and machinery are essential.
   The installation Ground Safety office, Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight, BE and CE
   shall coordinate on all layout plans. Refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor
   and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, for additional
   guidance.
   32.4.2. Only authorized shop personnel shall be allowed on shop floor. All other persons
   shall remain in designated areas so they do not interfere with shop operations. Vehicle
622                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  operators shall not approach mechanics on the floor to report discrepancies. When necessary,
  shop supervision shall authorize the operator‘s presence on the floor. Normal operator
  debriefings shall be a function of the Customer Service Center.
  32.4.3. Vehicle operators and mechanics shall sound vehicle horns before backing and
  intermittently during the entire backing operation unless vehicles are equipped with backup
  alarms. Vehicle operators shall stop and sound horn prior to entering and leaving the
  maintenance shop. A spotter shall be posted when moving large equipment and vehicles
  backwards or in close quarters. The spotter shall be visible to the operator and shall not stand
  directly behind the vehicle. Roll-down or side sliding doors shall be completely opened
  whenever a vehicle enters or exits the vehicle maintenance shop .
  32.4.4. Shop entrances and exits shall be clearly marked and lighted to prevent mishaps.
  Appropriate traffic signs shall be posted at entrances and exits. To minimize mishaps, a
  maximum speed limit of five (5) miles per hour shall be enforced in and around shops. The
  operator shall sound the vehicle horn prior to entering or exiting facilities to alert nearby
  personnel.
  32.4.5. Door frames and edges of doorways used for vehicle entry and exit, and any
  obstruction (building support columns, etc.) within the vehicle maintenance area that could
  pose a hazard to vehicular traffic shall be highlighted. Highlighted or reflective areas shall be
  painted or marked, when possible, in contrasting colors with three (3) inch stripes, 3 inches
  apart and at least four (4) feet up from the ground. Reflectivity may be enhanced using paint
  with reflective beads or reflective tape.
  32.4.6. Floor slopes, drains and oil/water separators in shops shall be constructed and
  maintained using guidance from the installation Environmental Management office. Oil
  separators shall be cleaned at a frequency determined by the installation Environmental
  Management office. The shop supervisor shall maintain the letter identifying the cleaning
  frequency and document compliance with the cleaning frequency. Drains shall not be
  connected to sanitary sewers, except the effluent from oil separators shall be connected to
  sanitary sewers.
  32.4.7. Emergency Eyewash. Where the eyes or body of any person may be exposed to
  injurious corrosive materials, suitable facilities for quick drenching or flushing of the eyes or
  body shall be provided within the work area for immediate emergency use. A water hose may
  not be used to meet the requirements in this reference. Eyes and skin shall be flushed/washed
  with water for 15 minutes prior to transport to medical care. Medical attention shall be
  obtained immediately after adequate flushing and drenching of the eyes or body has been
  accomplished. Supervisors may contact the installation Ground Safety office for assistance in
  determining how to meet the requirements of this reference. Refer to Chapter 19,
  Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units, for additional guidance.
  32.4.8. Catching, snagging and pulling of rings and jewelry may occur in and around vehicle
  maintenance operations. Because of this, controls shall be exercised over the wear of these
  and other items of jewelry with all such items removed before working on or around shop
  equipment or vehicles. Refer to Chapter 9, Jewelry, for additional guidance.
  32.4.9. Only one wheel per axle or one dual wheel assembly shall be jacked at one time.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      623



  32.4.10. No person outside the range of prompt and easy communication with other
  employees shall perform work with a risk of serious injury unless a second person is
  available to assist in an emergency.
  32.4.11. No employee shall enter a confined space until the atmosphere has been evaluated
  and found safe to enter, or proper precautions, IAW Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, are taken.
  32.4.12. Workers shall never use ramps on soft earth. They shall ensure the ramps rest on a
  firm, level surface.
  32.4.13. Illumination. At least 50 foot-candles of illumination shall be maintained at a
  worker‘s position. Where necessary, additional lighting shall be supplied. The installation CE
  shall be consulted for further guidance on illumination levels. Additionally, the installation
  CE will conduct lighting surveys, if requested.
  32.4.14. Machinery, Machine Guarding, Power Transmission Guarding and Shop
  Equipment. Chapter 18, Machinery, 29 CFR 1910 Subpart O, Machinery and Machine
  Guarding, and OSHA 3067, Concepts and Techniques of Machine Safeguarding, shall be
  followed when designing and maintaining machine and equipment guards.
     32.4.14.1. Supervisors shall maintain technical data, to include applicable 48--series
     AFOSH standards, for all machinery and shop equipment in their area of responsibility.
     32.4.14.2. Machinery and shop equipment shall be maintained and operated by qualified
     personnel.
     32.4.14.3. Machine guarding and power transmission guarding not covered in AFOSH
     Standards shall be IAW 29 CFR 1910 Subpart O. All machinery guard and danger zones
     shall be conspicuously identified. Refer to OSHA 3067, Concepts and Techniques of
     Machine Guarding, for additional information and guidance.
     32.4.14.4. No attempt shall be made to clean any part of a machine until all moving parts
     have come to a complete stop. Chips or other particles shall be removed by brushes or
     compressed air. If compressed air is used, the pressure at the discharge end of the air
     nozzle shall be less than 30 psi and effective chip guarding shall be used. Eye and/or face
     protection shall be worn while using compressed air to clean machines. Effective
     methods of preventing flying chips and particles are screens, barriers and protective
     cones attached to air nozzles. Compressed air shall not be used to blow chips or other
     debris from a worker‘s body or clothing. Some dusts such as lead, beryllium, cadmium,
     asbestos, etc., are extremely hazardous if inhaled, and cleaning these dust with
     compressed air shall not be done under any circumstances. If process not already
     evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional
     guidance.
     32.4.14.5. Air compressors shall be installed with easy access to all drains, valves and
     drives. A drain cock shall be provided at the lowest point of the tank to allow removal of
     water and metal particle accumulations. Air compressors shall be located outside the
     work area whenever possible to minimize noise exposure.
  32.4.15. Hand Tools: Portable Powered and Nonpowered.
 624                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       32.4.15.1. The first factor of hand tool safety is that the tools are of good quality and
       designed for the job at hand. All tools shall be kept in good repair and maintained by
       qualified personnel or removed from service.
       32.4.15.2. Specific criteria unique to a certain tool shall be contained in the technical
       data requiring use of the tool. To determine required tools and equipment, consult TO 32-
       1-2, Use of Hand Tools. Allowance Standards (AS) 403, General Purpose Tools, and AS
       457, Vehicle Maintenance, Locomotive Maintenance, and Vehicle Operations, and
       General Services Administration (GSA) catalogs shall be used to determine additional
       requirements necessary for a particular maintenance mission.
       32.4.15.3. Portable powered tools shall conform to military specifications (Mil Specs), if
       available. If Mil Specs applicable to a portable powered tool have not been published, the
       procuring document shall include a requirement for the tool to meet or exceed
       requirements of 29 CFR 1910.243, Guarding of Portable Powered Tools, and 29 CFR
       1910.304, Electrical, Wiring Design and Protection. Whenever possible, low noise
       power tools or tools with noise reduction attachments shall be utilized. Vibration
       dampening material/PPE shall be used to minimize fatigue when applicable. Consult
       AFOSH Standard 48-20 and if process not already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk
       assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance..
       32.4.15.4. Tools, when not in use, shall be kept in suitable containers and not in clothing
       pockets. Power tools shall not be left running unattended on a stand, the floor or a
       vehicle.
32.5. Fire Prevention. The installation FES Flight shall be consulted for specific shop
requirements.
   32.5.1. Open Flames.
       32.5.1.1. Flame-producing equipment shall not be used in refueler maintenance shops.
       Other vehicle maintenance shops may use flame-producing equipment if all safety
       procedures are followed and requirements in Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing,
       are complied with.
       32.5.1.2. The welding shop shall be properly identified as such and approved by the
       installation FES Flight and Ground Safety office for open flame activities.
   32.5.2. Low Flashpoint Solvents. Supervisors in charge of operations where solvents,
   lubricants or other flammable liquids are used shall avoid the use of low flashpoint solvents
   and try to use non-flammable solvents when practical. Other items to avoid in the presence of
   flammable or combustible liquids are open flames, open-element heaters, equipment not
   properly grounded and use of nonexplosion-proof electrical equipment.
   32.5.3. Fuel ethanol fires, like all fires, shall be taken seriously. An E85 fuel fire shall be
   handled like a gasoline fire. Use a CO2 or dry chemical extinguisher that is marked B, C, BC
   or ABC. An alcohol-type or alcohol-resistant foam (ARF) may also be used to combat fuel
   ethanol fires. Never use water to control a fire involving high-concentration fuel ethanol such
   as E85.
32.6. Ventilation.
   32.6.1. Control of Vehicle Exhaust.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     625



     32.6.1.1. Local Engine Exhaust Ventilation.
         32.6.1.1.1. The vehicle maintenance work area shall have a suitable exhaust
         ventilation system either under the floor with readily available adapter hoses or an
         overhead system arranged so connecting hoses can be raised when not in use. In shop
         areas with under floor systems, adapters shall be used on equipment having vertical
         exhaust stacks to conduce the exhaust to the floor connections. Carbon monoxide
         (CO) concentration shall be monitored by BE and levels kept under occupational and
         environmental exposure limits (OEELs) listed in AFMAN 48-155. The facility
         owner/operator shall ensure a proper calibration schedule for the airborne gas
         analyzer.
         32.6.1.1.2. Exhaust ducts shall be protected against mechanical damage. In-floor
         ducts shall be flush with the floor, level when closed and capable of withstanding
         vehicle and equipment traffic or the maintenance operation being performed. In-floor
         ducts shall be equipped with a fluid collection system that prevents drainage into the
         installation sanitary sewage system. This can be accomplished by sump pumps, a fuel
         and/or oil separator, a combination thereof, or by routing collected fluids to the
         shop‘s main drainage system. Overhead ducting shall be properly supported and
         located to avoid damage from moving vehicles and equipment.
         32.6.1.1.3. When not in use, ducting shall be stowed in a way that prevents damage
         to the equipment and does not cause a hazard to personnel.
     32.6.1.2. General Engine Exhaust Ventilation. Minimum general ventilation rates are
     specified in ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
     Operations and Maintenance. This ventilation, either natural or mechanical, is in addition
     to local exhaust ventilation and is required to remove vehicle exhaust gases and fuel
     vapors.
  32.6.2. The following operations or processes may produce airborne contaminants that
  exceed OEEL. The vehicle maintenance supervisor shall have these and similar operations
  evaluated by BE and shall document the results, along with any corrective actions taken.
     32.6.2.1. Spray painting, spray cleaning, solvent cleaning or stripping operations.
     32.6.2.2. Open surface tanks (dip tanks, etc.).
     32.6.2.3. Welding, soldering, torch cutting and metalizing.
     32.6.2.4. Abrasive blasting operations.
     32.6.2.5. Metal cutting, grinding, buffing and polishing operations.
     32.6.2.6. Machine shop operations (lathes, etc.).
     32.6.2.7. Battery shops. Refer to Chapter 31, Batteries – Maintenance, Handling and
     Storage Requirements, for additional guidance.
     32.6.2.8. Open tanks on refueler vehicle.
     32.6.2.9. Brake lining discs.
     32.6.2.10. Clutch linings.
 626                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   32.6.3. IAW AFMAN 48-155, BE‘s OEH risk assessment identifies controls.
   32.6.4. If ventilation system deficiencies exists, the vehicle maintenance supervisor shall use
   current BE OEH risk assessment to determine interim control measures needed.
   32.6.5. Periodic Testing. IAW AFMAN 48-155, BE shall perform periodic evaluations. BE
   shall provide evaluation results to the vehicle maintenance supervisor. If a shop has a
   manometer or similar piece of equipment that measures the ventilation system‘s air flow,
   then only the monitoring data needs to be reviewed annually by BE and the shop supervisor.
32.7. Hazardous Materials Storage and Handling.
   32.7.1. Spills.
       32.7.1.1. Fuel Spills. All maintenance operations shall immediately cease if a fuel spill
       or severe petroleum product leak occurs in the vehicle maintenance area with drainage
       into a fuel separator. All affected personnel shall immediately evacuate the area and the
       installation FES Flight shall be notified. Report and handle all fuel spills IAW local
       contingency spill plans. No one except emergency and cleanup personnel shall be
       permitted to return to the area until the spill is cleaned up, diluted, evaporated or
       absorbed. Workers shall avoid any action that could provide an ignition source for fuel
       vapors. Fuel-saturated clothing shall be removed away from the spill area. Skin shall be
       thoroughly washed with soap and water if fuel is splashed or spilled onto it. Clothing
       shall be flushed with water in a well-ventilated area where the fuel and vapors will not
       pose a hazard. Clothing contaminated with fuel shall not be placed in lockers or other
       confined areas, since fuel vapors can be trapped in clothing. If vapors in clothing are
       ignited, the resulting fire is difficult to extinguish and could cause severe burns to the
       person involved.
       32.7.1.2. Oil and Hydraulic Fluid Spills. The organization responsible for the spill shall
       contain/clean the spill using the applicable approved method, such as compound, oil and
       water absorbent (NSN 7920-00-269-1272 or equivalent). Contact the installation
       Environmental Management office for additional guidance.
       32.7.1.3. Sanitary Sewers. Every effort shall be taken to preclude spilling petroleum
       products into sanitary sewers because this can adversely affect sewage treatment
       facilities. The installation FES Flight, Environmental Management office and BE shall be
       notified if spillage enters a sewer. If fuel spills are washed down floor drains, sufficient
       water shall be used to ensure all fuel has been flushed from the drainage system. Before
       using large amounts of water to flush the fuel, supervisors shall ensure proper
       containment measures are available to prevent an environmental pollution incident in a
       receiving stream.
       32.7.1.4. Hazardous materials shall be removed and disposed of in compliance with
       published environmental regulations. Installation Environmental Management personnel
       shall be contacted for assistance. Refer to AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program,
       for additional guidance.
   32.7.2. Flammable Liquid Storage.
       32.7.2.1. The storage, use and handling of flammable and combustible liquids shall be
       IAW Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, and installation FES Flight guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         627



       Refer to ETL 03-4, Alternate Fuels E85 and B20, and US DOE, Handbook for Handling,
       Storing, and Dispensing E85, for additional guidance on alternative fuels. The facility
       manager shall retain a copy of the FES Flight guidance.
       32.7.2.2. The type of cabinet, location, type of materials and quantities stored shall be
       coordinated with the installation FES Flight.
       32.7.2.3. Cabinets storing flammables shall be conspicuously labeled ―FLAMMABLE -
       KEEP FIRE AWAY.‖ For additional guidance, refer to paragraph 22.5.3 and 29 CFR
       1910.106, Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
       32.7.2.4. Fuels shall not be used to clean floors, clothing hands, or parts. Refer to
       paragraph 32.9.1.4 for additional guidance on cleaning parts with JP-8. Fuels or solvents
       shall not be used as cigarette lighter fluid.
32.8. Electrical. All electrical work, installation and wire capacities in vehicle maintenance
facilities shall be IAW NFPA 70, National Electrical Code.
   32.8.1. Only trained and qualified electricians shall install and maintain electrical equipment.
   32.8.2. All personnel shall know the location and on-off operation of power control switches
   and stations in their work area. In addition, emphasis shall be placed on the need to maintain
   clear, unrestricted access to these controls at all times. This knowledge is essential to
   disengage electrical power to equipment if a fire or accidental electrical contact occurs. All
   panels and control switches shall identify what they control, as required by the NEC. Refer
   to paragraph 8.10.2 for additional information.
32.9. Cleaning With Solvents.
   32.9.1. General Requirements.
       32.9.1.1. A metal tank or container approved for flammable or combustible liquid shall
       be used to immerse articles or materials for cleaning, finishing, treating or similar
       processes whenever flammable or combustible cleaning materials are used. The metal
       tank or container shall be labeled with the contents. Care shall be taken to avoid solvent
       spillage.
       32.9.1.2. Due to the exceptionally low flashpoint of some solvents used in cleaning
       operations, care shall be exercised in the correct selection of solvents. The lower the
       flashpoint, the higher the risk of ignition at low temperatures. The flashpoints of various
       solvents differ widely due to their chemical properties; these properties determine the
       flammability, thus the need to understand the difference between solvents. For example:
       There are four types of MIL-PRF 680B solvents. Although each group is closely related
       and somewhat similar, they are not identical and shall not be confused.
          32.9.1.2.1. MIL-PRF 680B, Type I, has a flashpoint between 100°F and 140oF.
          32.9.1.2.2. MIL-PRF 680B, Types II and IV, has a flashpoint between 141°F and
          198oF, due to the higher flashpoint, is the recommended solvent for cleaning
          operations.
          32.9.1.2.3. MIL-PRF 680B, Type III, is a recommended interim substitute for MIL-
          PRF 680 Types II and IV. There shall be no change in cleaning solvent from MIL-
628                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         PRF 680B Type II/Type III/Type IV or compound emulsion cleaning solvent (Mil
         Spec C-25179) without prior approval of the installation FES Flight, Ground Safety
         office and BE.
      32.9.1.3. The following items shall not be used as cleaning solvents: acetone, benzene,
      carbon tetrachloride, gasoline, isopropyl alcohol, methanol, methyl ethyl ketone, naphtha
      (solvent), perchlorethylene, toluene, trichloroethylene or turpentine. Commercial
      cleaning solvents, such as ―Safety Klean‖ or other non-flammable emulsion type cleaning
      liquids shall be considered for use whenever possible.
      32.9.1.4. Flammable cleaning solvents, jet fuel or aviation gas (AVGAS) shall not be
      used to clean floors or clothing. JP-8 may be used for parts cleaning provided the
      requirements of paragraph 32.9.1.1 and any TO or manufacturer‘s restrictions are met.
      32.9.1.5. Cleaning rooms shall be equipped with an adequate mechanical ventilation
      system .and blowers and exhaust systems shall conform to NFPA 91, Standard for
      Exhaust Systems for Air Conveying of Vapors, Gases, Mists, and Noncombustible
      Particulate Solids. Refer to ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended
      Practice for Operations and Maintenance, and AFMAN 48-155 for additional guidance.
      32.9.1.6. There shall be no open flames, spark-producing devices or heated surfaces
      having a temperature sufficient to ignite vapors in any vapor area.
      32.9.1.7. There shall be no electrical equipment in the immediate vicinity of cleaning
      tanks subject to splashing or dripping of cleaning tank liquids, unless approved for use in
      that environment.
      32.9.1.8. There shall be no open flames or spark-producing devices in any floor space
      outside a vapor area or within 20 feet thereof (not separated by tight partitions), except as
      specifically permitted in NFPA 86, Standard for Ovens and Furnaces. Areas in the
      vicinity of dip tanks shall be kept as clear of combustible stock as practical and shall be
      kept entirely free of combustible debris.
      32.9.1.9. When waste or rags are used in connection with dipping operations, approved
      metal waste cans with self-closing lids, or as required by the installation Environmental
      Management (EM) office, shall be provided and all impregnated rags or waste shall be
      placed there immediately after use. The contents of waste cans shall be properly disposed
      of at least once daily and at the end of each shift in a manner consistent with local
      hazardous waste disposal procedures and applicable environmental regulations. Contact
      the installation EM office for disposal guidance.
      32.9.1.10. Periodic inspection or tests of all dip tank facilities shall be made, including
      associated ventilation and fire protection equipment. Any defects shall he promptly
      corrected.
      32.9.1.11. DANGER - NO SMOKING signs shall be conspicuously posted in the vicinity
      of dip tanks.
      32.9.1.12. Areas in the vicinity of dip tanks shall have manual fire extinguishers suitable
      for combustible liquids. Protection systems shall be provided for tanks of 150 gallon
      capacity or more, or 10 square feet or more of liquid surface area. Refer to NFPA 34,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     629



      Standard for Dipping and Coating Processes Using Flammable or Combustible Liquids,
      for additional guidance.
   32.9.2. Specific Requirements.
      32.9.2.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
          32.9.2.1.1. When handling parts cleaned in PD 680 solvent, all personnel shall wear
          rubber gloves and keep the inside of gloves clean and dry. Rubber gloves and an
          apron shall be worn when acids are poured or dumped. ANSI Z87.1-compliant eye
          protection with side shields shall also be worn. Consult BE regarding the OEH risk
          assessemnt. Refer to paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment
          (PPE), and ANSI Z87.1., Occupational and Educational Personal Eye and Face
          Protective Devices, for additional guidance.
          32.9.2.1.2. Contact lens wearers shall wear appropriate eye and face protection.
          Contact lenses may trap toxic or dangerous substances that are harmful to the eye.
          Contact lenses decrease the effectiveness of emergency eyewash fountains and
          sometimes compound the severity of an injury. Soft contact lenses may absorb and be
          contaminated by chemicals, their vapors and/or fumes. Note: Workers shall advise
          supervisors if they wear contact lenses.
      32.9.2.2. Vehicle Engine Cleaning. Starters, generators, alternators, distributors or
      magnetos shall be protected (covered with waterproof paper or plastic), so internal
      mechanisms are not exposed to water spray or cleaning agents. Remove the air cleaner
      and cover the carburetor throat or air intake with waterproof paper or plastic. Follow TO
      36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, when
      cleaning installed engines.
          32.9.2.2.1. Workers shall wear PPE listed in paragraph 32.9.2.1 when cleaning
          engines.
          32.9.2.2.2. When cleaning tanks are located in an isolated room or facility, users
          shall obtain permission from the appropriate supervisor to use the tank. A buddy
          system shall be used, when required by management or safety, to ensure assistance is
          available if a mishap or emergency occurs.
      32.9.2.3. Solvent Storage and Handling. Bulk solvents shall be stored in well-ventilated
      rooms, physically separated from other storage and operations. Caution and warning
      labels shall not be removed. Leaking drums shall be removed outdoors immediately so
      vapors or liquid will not collect and become a hazard. Contact the installation
      Environmental Management office for proper disposal guidelines for leaking drums. Drip
      pans shall not be used to catch spilled liquids unless these pans drain into a closed
      container. Approved containers with the solvent name clearly marked on the container
      shall be used. The BE shall help determine the adequacy of ventilation in areas where
      solvents will be used, prior to their use. Through BE‘s OEH risk assessment, appropriate
      ventilation, if any, is recommended. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional guidance.
32.10. Paint Shop.
630                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  32.10.1. General Requirements. To ensure safe and efficient operation, all painting activities
  shall be performed IAW accepted safety standards and Chapter 28, Interior Spray Finishing.
  32.10.2. Specific Requirements.
      32.10.2.1. Personal Protective Equipment. BE‘s OEH risk assessment outlines PPE, if
      required. Refer to paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
      32.10.2.2. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping is essential to safe paint shop operations.
      Paint rooms shall be kept clean and their equipment stored in an orderly manner.
      32.10.2.3. Spray Booths. All high volume low pressure (HVLP) spraying shall be
      accomplished in a paint booth to minimize health, fire and explosion hazards. The walls
      of these booths shall be made of fire-resistant material that can be easily and frequently
      cleaned. Refer to Chapter 28 and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of
      Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance, for construction and
      installation of ventilating systems for paint-spraying operations.
         32.10.2.3.1. Walls. Walls and floors of spray booths may be covered with thin paper
         bags or a cellophane bag having a thickness of .003 inches or less to protect them
         from paint deposits. Coverings shall be replaced frequently to prevent the
         accumulation of deposits. This paper shall be removed and disposed of IAW state and
         federal hazardous waste regulations. Contact the installation Environmental
         Management office for disposal guidelines. Soap-like, water-soluble materials or
         coatings which can be stripped, or other similar materials that can be easily washed
         down, may be used to protect the walls and floors of spray booths from paint
         accumulation, provided they do not pose an environmental pollution problem.
         Protective paper wall coatings shall not be used for dry or dusty paint substances that
         can be removed from the booths by adequate ventilation. Refer to NFPA 33, Spray
         Application Using Flammable and Combustible Materials, for additional guidance.
         Note: Paint facilities with overhead sprinklers shall have sprinkler heads covered
         with a paper bag to prevent paint overspray from clogging the heads.
         32.10.2.3.2. Direction of Spray. Personnel shall always spray paint toward the
         exhaust portal to minimize accumulation of harmful mists and vapors in the booth
         and to minimize any potential health hazards from airborne contaminants. Spray guns
         shall never be pointed toward other personnel.
         32.10.2.3.3. Hand Work. Adequate exhaust ventilation shall be provided in booths
         when hand spray painting. BE‘s OEH risk assessment identifies controls. Refer to
         paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14 for additional guidance. Care shall be taken to ensure
         hoses do not present a tripping hazard for personnel or are cut by passing vehicles.
         Caution:     Some paints and additives contain toxic isocyanates. Ensure all
         recommendations and warnings listed on the container label are followed. Adequate
         NIOSH approved respiratory protection shall be worn during the entire paint process.
         Refer to 29 CFR 1910.134(d)(1)(ii). NIOSH recommends the employer provide the
         worker with the supplied-air respiratory protection whenever there is potential for
         exposure to isocyanate-containing compounds, including concentrations below the
         NIOSH recommended exposure level.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          631



      32.10.2.4. Ventilation. Mechanical ventilation shall be provided in all paint spray booths
      to prevent accumulation of flammable and injurious vapors. Refer to ACGIH‘s Industrial
      Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance, and
      29 CFR 1910.107, Spray Finishing Using Flammable and Combustible Materials, for
      additional guidance.
      32.10.2.5. Interlocks. Electrical equipment for electrostatic hand spraying shall be
      interlocked with spray booth ventilation controls so spraying cannot be done unless the
      ventilation fans are operating. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.107 for additional guidance.
32.11. Air Compressors.
   32.11.1. General Requirements.
      32.11.1.1. Only qualified personnel shall repair or adjust pressure-regulating equipment.
      32.11.1.2. All personnel operating air compressors shall be familiar with air compressor
      operating instructions.
   32.11.2. Specific Requirements.
      32.11.2.1. All new air tanks and safety valves shall be constructed, installed and
      maintained IAW American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Boiler and
      Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII. The ASME code seal is permanently stamped on
      tanks meeting this criteria.
      32.11.2.2. Air receivers shall be installed so all drains are easily accessible. Air receivers
      shall be installed with sufficient clearance to permit a complete external inspection and to
      avoid corrosion of external surfaces.
      32.11.2.3. A drain pipe and valve shall be installed at the lowest point of the air receiver
      to remove accumulated oil and water. The drain valve shall be opened and the receiver
      completely drained daily to prevent accumulation of excessive amounts of liquid in the
      receiver. Air receivers shall be stenciled to reflect this requirement (exclude air receivers
      with automatic drains).
      32.11.2.4. Every air receiver shall be equipped with a readily visible pressure indicating
      gauge and with one or more spring-loaded safety valves. The total relieving capacity of
      such valves shall prevent receiver pressure exceeding the maximum allowable working
      pressure by more than 10 percent.
      32.11.2.5. No valve of any type shall be placed between the air receiver and its safety
      valve or valves.
      32.11.2.6. All safety valves shall be tested at regular intervals by installation CE or
      designated representative to ensure the valves are operational, and will repair and replace
      the safety valves, if faulty/non-operational.
      32.11.2.7. Installed compressed air line outlets shall have the delivered air pressure
      tagged or marked showing maximum working pressure.
      32.11.2.8. Air hoses shall not be placed where they may create tripping hazards. All
      hoses shall be inspected to ensure they are properly connected to pipe outlets before use.
 632                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       Hoses shall not be kinked to stop air flow. The control valve shall be used to turn off the
       air. Water hose type clamps or wire connections shall not be used to replace or repair
       broken fittings.
       32.11.2.9. When used for approved cleaning, compressed air shall be regulated to less
       than 30 psi and only when effective chip guarding and eye protection is used.
       Compressed air shall not be routinely used to blow dry parts since this process can
       increase the inhalation hazards to workers.
       32.11.2.10. Vehicles shall not be parked or left running near air intakes of compressors
       used to supply breathing air to painters.
   32.11.3. Compressed Air. Compressed air is used in many shop operations: spray painting,
   tire inflation, fuel line cleaning and others. Compressed air can be used safely when handled
   with care and according to accepted safety standards. Eye protection shall be used at all times
   when cleaning with compressed air.
       32.11.3.1. Personnel with cuts/lacerations on their hands or fingers shall not hold parts
       that have been washed in cleaning solvent if using compressed air to blow dry the parts.
       Personnel shall wear neoprene or rubber gloves to avoid problems from contact with
       solvents. Refer to paragraph 32.11.2.9 for additional guidance.
       32.11.3.2. A vacuum system or water hose shall be used to remove dust, etc., from large
       surfaces.
       32.11.3.3. Compressed air shall not be used to clean clothing or body parts.
       32.11.3.4. Compressed air shall not be used to ―spin-dry‖ or ―air-dry‖ bearings, unless
       permitted by the applicable TO.
       32.11.3.5. Never point compressed air toward other personnel.
       32.11.3.6. Assume all brakes contain asbestos, unless proven otherwise. Personnel shall
       utilize the OSHA Wet Method, IAW 29 CFR 1910.1001, Appendix F, Work Practices
       and Engineering Controls for Automotive Brake and Clutch Inspection, Disassembly,
       Repair and Assembly. Cleaning materials shall be disposed of IAW local guidance.
       Consult the installation Environmental Management office for further disposal
       guidelines. Never use compressed air to clean clutch and brake assemblies.
32.12. Compressed Gas Cylinders.
   32.12.1. General Requirements. Vehicle maintenance shops use acetylene and oxygen in
   welding, R-12 and Freon as refrigerants, and liquid petroleum gas (butane-propane) as a
   motor vehicle fuel. These cylinders may contain pressures up to 3,600 psi. Cylinders are
   designed and constructed IAW Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations and bear the
   DOT identification. This stamping is generally found near the neck of the cylinder.
   Subsequent re-inspections shall be stamped in the same area. The cylinder contents shall be
   legibly marked on each cylinder in large letters. Refer to Military Standard (Mil Std) 101B,
   DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders, 29 CFR 1910.101,
   Compressed Gases, 1910.102, Acetylene, 1910.103, Hydrogen, 1910.104, Oxygen, 1910.105,
   Nitrous Oxide, and applicable TOs for additional guidance. Non-government owned
   cylinders shall be tagged or otherwise marked to indicate cylinder contents. Guidance in
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      633



  AFMAN 23-227(IP), Storage and Handling of Liquefied and Gaseous Compressed Gases
  and Their Full and Empty Cylinders, shall be followed.
  32.12.2. Specific Requirements.
     32.12.2.1. Inspection. Cylinders shall be inspected upon receipt at the installation or
     organization by a qualified supply inspector IAW AFMAN 23-227(IP) and Air Force 23-
     series (Supply) instructions. The user shall perform a similar inspection when receiving
     the cylinder from supply.
     32.12.2.2. Manual Handling:
         32.12.2.2.1. Due to their shape and weight, most cylinders are difficult to handle
         manually. However, if such handling is necessary, they shall be tipped slightly and
         rolled on the bottom edge, not dragged or slid across the floor, whenever feasible.
         Mechanical handling generally requires carts in which cylinders are secured on
         specially constructed skids. The use of electromagnets or slings is not acceptable for
         mechanical handling. The insertion of bars through the protective caps may damage
         the valve assembly; for this reason, bars shall not be used. Cylinders shall not be
         handled without protective caps in place.
         32.12.2.2.2. Cylinders shall not be dropped or permitted to strike each other.
         Cylinders shall not be used as rollers or for any purpose other than gas containers.
         Cuts or abrasions and corrosion on cylinders may seriously reduce their design
         strength and shall be identified to the supply inspector.
         32.12.2.2.3. Acetylene cylinders shall never be placed on their sides or laid down for
         any reason.
     32.12.2.3. Use:
         32.12.2.3.1. Before connecting compressed gas cylinders to a regulator or system
         outlet, cylinders shall be cleared of dust and particles (except cylinders containing
         hydrogen or toxic gases). The valve shall be pointed away from the body and other
         personnel, then opened slightly to blow out foreign material.
         32.12.2.3.2. A compressed gas cylinder shall not be used without a pressure reducing
         regulator attached to the valve. If cylinders are in a manifold, the regulator shall be
         attached to the manifold header. Only regulators and pressure gauges designed for the
         specific gases shall be used. Workers shall not attempt to force connections that do
         not fit easily. If a leak develops between the cylinder and regulator, shut off the
         cylinder gas valve before attempting to tighten the regulator connection.
         32.12.2.3.3. All compressed gas valves shall be opened slowly to prevent sudden
         pressure surges that may damage regulators. Oxygen valves shall be opened fully to
         gain the benefit of the sealing qualities of the double-seated valve. Valves on
         acetylene cylinders shall never be opened more than one-quarter turn. Regulator
         output pressure shall not exceed 10 psi gauge. The special tool recommended by the
         supplier shall be the only tool used for these valves. The tool shall be left on the
         valve. Compressed gas cylinder valves shall be closed when not in use.
 634                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          32.12.2.3.4. When high and low pressure gases are used on the same cylinder cart,
          the hoses shall be different colors and the fittings on the ends of these hoses different
          types and sizes.
          32.12.2.3.5. Oil or grease shall not be used to lubricate oxygen cylinder outlets or
          attachments. Oxygen cylinders and attachments shall be handled with oil-free hands,
          gloves and clothing.
       32.12.2.4. Manifolds for Compressed Gas Cylinders. They shall be a type approved by
       the gas supplier or other reputable manufacturer for the gas being used. Connections shall
       be tested for tightness using an approved leak testing product or soap and water.
       Caution: Never use an open flame to test for leaks.
       32.12.2.5. Storage.
          32.12.2.5.1. Inside cylinder storage areas shall be free from excessive heat and kept
          clean. Flammable gases shall be stored separately from other gases and oxygen.
          Storage areas shall have good natural ventilation or mechanical ventilation shall be
          provided. Inside storage areas shall be identified with product identification.
          32.12.2.5.2. Cylinders of one type shall not be mixed with cylinders of other types.
          Where a safe distance between flammable gases and oxygen is unattainable, partitions
          of fire resistant material shall be provided. Floors shall be level and of
          noncombustible construction.
          32.12.2.5.3. Outside storage requires all the protection afforded by inside storage,
          plus a noncombustible canopy to protect cylinders from adverse weather and the sun.
          32.12.2.5.4. All cylinders shall be stored upright, with the valve up. Empty cylinders
          shall be stored apart from full cylinders and the word EMPTY or MT chalked in large
          letters on them. The valves shall be closed and protective caps put in place. Storage
          areas shall be free of sources of ignition and smoking prohibited.
          32.12.2.5.5. The storage area shall be provided with chains (or similar devices) to
          keep the cylinders from being knocked over. Cylinders shall not be secured around
          valves or caps. Areas near elevators, stairs or ramps shall be avoided for storage,
          because cylinders could easily be knocked down or damaged. Cylinders shall be
          stored so they are used in the order in which they are received.
          32.12.2.5.6. In main areas of type C (combustible) constructed buildings other than
          storage buildings and in main areas of noncombustible constructed buildings, the
          amount of flammable gas stored shall be IAW Air Force 23-series (Supply)
          instructions. In cutoff rooms and enclosures within buildings of combustible
          construction or occupancy, the amount of gas shall be limited to that allowed by the
          installation FES Flight. Refer to Table 32.2 for additional guidance.
32.13. Lifting Devices.
   32.13.1. Inspection. Many lifting device problems can be detected prior to use if properly
   inspected. Periodic inspections shall be performed by qualified inspection or maintenance
   personnel. Test and certification of cranes and hoists shall be performed by experienced,
   qualified inspectors. Certification, inspection and test reports shall be available on the
   premises where the crane or hoist is located, in the supervisor‘s office or in a central
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                            635



  maintenance shop. Refer to Chapter 35, Material Handling Equipment, for additional
  inspection guidance.
  32.13.2. Responsibilities. Responsibilities for periodic inspection, records, maintenance and
  test of lifting devices and separate lifting aids shall be as follows:
     32.13.2.1. Permanently Installed Equipment (Real Property Installed Equipment [RPIE]).
     The installation CE shall be responsible for RPIE inspection requirements. RPIE includes
     installed equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures, i.e., air
     conditioning/heating systems, but not movable equipment such as plant equipment.
     32.13.2.2. Mobile Equipment. The vehicle maintenance officer and/or superintendent
     shall be responsible for mobile equipment inspection requirements.
     32.13.2.3. Fixed Shop and Portable Equipment (Equipment Authorized Inventory Data
     [EAID]). The responsible activity, as described in AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply
     Manual (FOUO), shall be responsible for fixed shop and portable equipment inspection
     requirements.
     32.13.2.4. Hoists and Cranes. Refer to specific technical data. If none is available,
     consult the installation CE or safety representatives. Refer to Chapter 35, Material
     Handling Equipment, for additional guidance.
  32.13.3. Specific Requirements.
     32.13.3.1. Hydraulic Vehicle Lifts.
         32.13.3.1.1. Workers shall stand to one side of the vehicle as it is driven on or off the
         lift. The load shall rest squarely on the lift. The operator shall close the vehicle doors,
         hood and trunk and make sure there is no one inside the vehicle prior to raising it,
         except to facilitate repairs. This applies to vehicle lifts equipped with automatic
         locking devices that shall not allow the vehicle to descend with loss of power. The
         operator shall know the load limits of the lift and adapter and ensure it is not
         overloaded. The operator shall not lock the hoist controls in the open or shut position,
         but operate them manually. All vehicle lifts shall be equipped with a safety device to
         prevent accidental lowering. The device can be a simple mechanism such as a safety
         leg, which locks in a vertical position as the lift is raised, or a restricted orifice device,
         which permits controlled lowering during hydraulic failure. As an added safety
         feature, air-oil operated hydraulic lifts shall be equipped with a lock which prevents
         raising by air if the oil supply is low, i.e., a ―low oil lock.‖ This is a removable device
         which prevents compressed air entering the lift cylinder assembly. The arrangement
         prevents the plungers being raised above the oil supply in the air-oil reservoir.
         32.13.3.1.2. Roll-on lifts shall be equipped with stop chocks to prevent the vehicle
         moving while the lift is hoisting, lowering or in the elevated position. Stop chocks
         shall be automatic (springing into position when the vehicle is on the lift).
         32.13.3.1.3. All vehicle lifts shall be marked with the manufacturer name, lift
         capacity and date of installation. These markings shall be stamped or etched on a
         metal plate permanently attached to the lift in a position where it can be inspected.
636                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         32.13.3.1.4. All vehicle lifts shall be equipped with ―dead man‖ controls, which
         automatically return to NEUTRAL or OFF when released by an operator. Controls
         shall be conveniently located near a lift, if feasible.
         32.13.3.1.5. A lift shall not be used and an appropriate hazard warning tag shall be
         attached if it:
             32.13.3.1.5.1. Jerks or jumps when raised.
             32.13.3.1.5.2. Slowly settles downward after being raised.
             32.13.3.1.5.3. Slowly rises, either when in use or when not in use.
             32.13.3.1.5.4. Comes down very slowly.
             32.13.3.1.5.5. Blows oil out of the exhaust line.
             32.13.3.1.5.6. Leaks oil at the packing gland.
      32.13.3.2. Electric Vehicle Lifts.
         32.13.3.2.1. Inspect the lift daily. Never operate it if it has damaged parts which
         render it unsafe. Make repairs with original equipment parts, if possible.
         32.13.3.2.2. Operating controls are designed to close when released. Do not block
         open or override them.
         32.13.3.2.3. Never overload the lift. The manufacturer‘s rated capacity is shown on
         the lift nameplate.
         32.13.3.2.4. Do not operate the lift if any safety devices are inoperative.
         32.13.3.2.5. Allow only trained and authorized personnel to position the vehicle and
         operate the lift.
         32.13.3.2.6. Never raise the vehicle with anyone inside, except to facilitate repairs.
         (This applies to vehicle lifts with automatic locking devices that do not allow the
         vehicle to descend with loss of power.) Do not allow anyone under the vehicle when
         raising or lowering the lift. When operating the lift, stand outside of it and keep hands
         clear of moving parts.
         32.13.3.2.7. Always keep the lift area free of obstructions, grease, oil, trash and other
         debris.
         32.13.3.2.8. Before driving the vehicle over the lift, position arms and supports to
         provide unobstructed clearance. Do not hit or run over lift arms, adapters or axle
         supports. This could damage the lift or vehicle.
         32.13.3.2.9. Position the vehicle on the lift carefully. Position lift supports to contact
         at the vehicle manufacturer‘s recommended lifting points. Raise lift until supports
         contact the vehicle. Check supports for secure contact with vehicle. Raise the lift to
         desired working height. Caution: Raise the lift high enough for the locking device to
         engage whenever someone is working under the vehicle.
         32.13.3.2.10. Do not attempt to move the vehicle when the lift is off the ground.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        637



        32.13.3.2.11. With some vehicles, removal or installation of components may cause a
        critical shift in the center of gravity and result in raised vehicle instability. Refer to
        the vehicle manufacturer‘s service manual for recommended procedures when vehicle
        components are removed.
        32.13.3.2.12. When performing maintenance on electrical lifts, ensure electrical
        power is disconnected unless required for checking unit operation.
        32.13.3.2.13. Before lowering lift, ensure tool trays, stands, etc., are removed from
        under the vehicle and vicinity of the lift. Release locking devices before attempting to
        lower the lift.
        32.13.3.2.14. Lower lift slowly.
        32.13.3.2.15. Before removing vehicle from the lift area, position lift arms and
        supports to provide an unobstructed exit.
     32.13.3.3. Jacks. Vehicle maintenance personnel shall not use hydraulic floor jacks, post
     jacks or mechanical jacks to support vehicles while repair is accomplished. The vehicle
     shall be blocked and placed on approved axle or frame stands before a repair operation is
     started.
        32.13.3.3.1. The rated load of the jack shall be legibly and permanently marked in a
        prominent location by casting, stamping or other suitable means.
        32.13.3.3.2. Shop personnel shall not use a leaking or faulty jack. Defective jacks
        shall be taken out of service immediately, tagged and not used until repaired.
        32.13.3.3.3. Shop personnel shall exercise care in positioning jacks under vehicles,
        making sure the cap is properly located to preclude the jack slipping after the load is
        applied. A flat piece of wood, thick enough to withstand the load, may be placed
        between the jack cap and vehicle lift point to help prevent the jack cap from slipping.
        32.13.3.3.4. All jacks shall be properly lubricated at regular intervals and only
        lubricants recommended by the manufacturer shall be used.
        32.13.3.3.5. Improper jacking can cause serious injury or property damage. The
        following jacking procedures shall be used:
            32.13.3.3.5.1. Equipment shall be properly chocked prior to jacking.
            32.13.3.3.5.2. Jack stands shall be used any time equipment is jacked for
            maintenance.
            32.13.3.3.5.3. Equipment shall be removed from jacks as soon as possible.
            32.13.3.3.5.4. Equipment shall be jacked to the minimum height required for the
            particular task.
            32.13.3.3.5.5. Personnel shall only remain under a jacked unit for the time
            required to place axle or frame stands for support.
            32.13.3.3.5.6. Personnel shall not position any portion of themselves under the
            tire or wheel of jacked equipment.
 638                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


              32.13.3.3.5.7. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring jacks and jack stands of
              sufficient capacity are available and utilized.
              32.13.3.3.5.8. Workers shall ensure placement of jack does not cause damage to
              the equipment.
              32.13.3.3.5.9. Jacks and jack stands shall be inspected and maintained IAW
              equipment TOs. If no technical data exists, manufacturer‘s manuals may be used
              as long is it meets criteria in 29 CFR 1910, Subpart P, Hand and Portable
              Powered Tools and Other Hand-Held Equipment.
              32.13.3.3.5.10. Defective jack stands shall be taken out of service immediately
              and tagged for disposition.
32.14. Wheel and Tire Maintenance.
   32.14.1. Employee Training.
       32.14.1.1. Extensive damage to equipment and serious injury to personnel may result
       from careless or improper demounting, mounting and inflation of tires on both single
       piece and multi-piece rim wheels. To ensure safety of equipment and personnel, all
       personnel involved in wheel dismantling or buildup operations shall be thoroughly
       familiar with applicable TOs, rim manuals, OSHA 3086 entitled ―Servicing Single-Piece
       and Multi-Piece Rim Wheels,‖ and this standard for the particular wheel involved.
       Precautions outlined in these publications shall be strictly adhered to when working on
       wheels and rims. As an added safety measure, procedures shall be reviewed prior to
       starting tire maintenance operations.
       32.14.1.2. The supervisor shall ensure all workers who service multi-piece or single
       piece rim wheels are trained in the proper servicing techniques and practices applicable to
       the type of wheels being serviced. A mechanic‘s level of proficiency shall be established
       by demonstrating his or her familiarity with and ability to use the information contained
       in the charts, rim manuals, TOs and this standard. Refer to Figure 32.1 for procedures for
       tubeless passenger car tires.
       32.14.1.3. The supervisor shall ensure each worker demonstrates and maintains the
       ability to service rim wheels safely, including the following tasks:
          32.14.1.3.1. Inspection of rim wheel components.
          32.14.1.3.2. Mounting of tires, including inflation within a restraining device or other
          safeguard required by this chapter. Refer to Figure 32.2 and Figure 32.3 for
          additional guidance.
          32.14.1.3.3. Use of the restraining device, barrier and other equipment required by
          this chapter.
          32.14.1.3.4. Handling of rim wheels.
          32.14.1.3.5. Inflation of tire when a rim wheel is mounted on the vehicle.
          32.14.1.3.6. An understanding of the need to stand outside the trajectory shown in
          Figure 32.2 and Figure 32.4 during inflation of the tire and inspection of the tire
          following inflation, and installation and removal of rim wheels.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      639



     32.14.1.4. The supervisor shall evaluate each worker‘s ability to perform these tasks and
     to service rim wheels safely and shall provide additional training as necessary to ensure
     each worker maintains proficiency.
  32.14.2. Tire Servicing Equipment.
     32.14.2.1. The supervisor shall ensure a restraining device for servicing multi-piece rim
     wheels is available and used.
     32.14.2.2. When servicing single piece rim wheels, the worker shall use a restraining
     device or barrier, except where the rim wheel is bolted to the vehicle during inflation.
     32.14.2.3. Supervisors shall ensure restraining devices and barriers meet the following
     requirements:
         32.14.2.3.1. Each restraining device or barrier shall withstand the maximum force
         transferred to it during an explosive rim wheel separation occurring at 150 percent of
         maximum tire specification pressure for the type wheel being serviced.
         32.14.2.3.2. Restraining devices and barriers shall prevent rim wheel components
         being thrown outside or beyond the device or barrier for any rim wheel positioned
         within the device.
         32.14.2.3.3. A restraining device or barrier shall not contain a solid flat surface
         against which the rim wheel can lie or lean during inflation, such as the bed or table
         of a tire changing machine.
         32.14.2.3.4. Restraining devices and barriers shall be visually inspected prior to each
         day‘s use and after any explosion or explosive separation of the rim wheel
         components. Any restraining device or barrier exhibiting damage such as the
         following defects shall be immediately removed from service:
            32.14.2.3.4.1. Cracks at welds.
            32.14.2.3.4.2. Cracked or broken components.
            32.14.2.3.4.3. Bent or sprung components caused by mishandling, abuse, tire
            explosion or rim wheel separation.
            32.14.2.3.4.4. Pitting of components due to excessive corrosion.
            32.14.2.3.4.5. Rust or other structural damage.
            32.14.2.3.4.6. Inoperative air pressure warning light or gauge.
            32.14.2.3.4.7. Leaking, cracked or deteriorating hoses.
         32.14.2.3.5. NDI techniques may be used to verify existence of cracks or other
         damage to welds whenever a tire/wheel failure occurs inside a restraining device, a
         weld is found to be severely rusted or whenever a weld‘s integrity is in doubt. Note:
         Accomplish a one-time NDI of all welds on locally manufactured restraining devices
         or commercially procured devices when weld integrity has not been documented.
         32.14.2.3.6. Restraining devices or barriers removed from service and requiring
         structural repair, such as component replacement or re-welding, shall not be returned
640                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         to service until certified, by the manufacturer or a Registered Professional Engineer.
         This certification shall ensure the restraining device or barrier will withstand the
         maximum force transferred during a rim wheel separation at 150 percent of the
         maximum tire specification pressure for the rim wheel being serviced or as required
         by the applicable TO, whichever is greater.
      32.14.2.4. The supervisor shall ensure a hose assembly consisting of the following
      components is used for inflating rim wheels:
         32.14.2.4.1. A clip-on chuck.
         32.14.2.4.2. A sufficient length of hose to allow the employee to stand outside the
         trajectory.
         32.14.2.4.3. An in-line valve with a pressure gauge or an adjustable regulator.
      32.14.2.5. An approved tire inflator cage appropriately sized for tires being serviced
      shall be used for inflating multi-piece wheels. A regulator gauge, shutoff valve, service
      hose and lock-on type chuck shall be used with the cage to control the air when inflating.
      In addition, a bleed valve shall be used to relieve pressure in the hose when the tire is
      filled. Refer to TO 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle
      Maintenance, and Figure 32.3 for additional guidance.
      32.14.2.6. A current OSHA 3086, Servicing Single-Piece and Multi-Piece Rim Wheels,
      along with OSHA charts entitled ―Demounting and Mounting Procedures for Truck/Bus
      Tires,‖ and ―Multi-piece Rim Matching Chart,‖ shall be available and posted in the
      service area. To order OSHA instructions: OSHA Publications Office, U.S. Department
      of Labor Room N-3101, Washington, DC 20210.
      32.14.2.7. A current rim manual and TO 36-1-191, containing instructions for the types
      of wheels being serviced, shall be available in the service area. Refer to Figure 32.1 for
      further information on the referenced rim manual.
      32.14.2.8. The supervisor shall ensure only tools recommended in the rim manual for the
      type of wheel being serviced are used to service rim wheels. Warning: Failure to
      observe precautions outlined in this standard may result in faulty positioning of the tire
      and/or rim parts, causing the assembly to burst with explosive force sufficient to cause
      serious physical injury or death.
  32.14.3. Wheel Component Acceptability.
      32.14.3.1. Multi-piece wheel components shall not be interchanged except as provided in
      the charts or applicable rim manual.
      32.14.3.2. Multi-piece wheel components and single piece wheels shall be inspected
      prior to assembly. Any wheel part bent out of shape, pitted from corrosion, broken or
      cracked shall not be used and shall be rendered unserviceable and discarded. Damaged or
      leaky valves shall be replaced.
      32.14.3.3. Rim flanges, rim gutters, rings, bead seating surfaces and bead areas of tires
      shall be free of any dirt, surface rust, scale or loose or flaked rubber build-up prior to
      mounting and inflation.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       641



     32.14.3.4. The size and type of the tire and wheel shall be checked for compatibility
     prior to assembly of the rim wheel.
  32.14.4. Safe Operating Procedure – Multi-piece Rim Wheels. The supervisor shall establish
  a safe operating procedure for servicing multi-piece rim wheels and shall ensure workers are
  instructed in and follow that procedure. The procedure shall include, as a minimum, the
  following elements:
     32.14.4.1. Tires shall be completely deflated by removing the valve core before a rim
     wheel is removed from the axle. If the axle and rim are secured by wedges and lug nuts,
     loosen the lug nuts out to the end of the stud, but DO NOT remove. Lightly tap on
     wedges to break them free. When all wedges are broken free, lug nuts can be removed.
     Wedges can become dangerous projectiles if these procedures are not followed. Workers
     shall use mechanical devices, such as dollies, to help them remove or mount large, heavy
     tires.
     32.14.4.2. A nonflammable rubber lubricant shall be applied to bead and rim mating
     surfaces during assembly of the rim wheel and inflation of the tire, unless the wheel or
     tire manufacturer advises against its use. The rubber lubricants used shall not be
     flammable.
     32.14.4.3. Tires mounted on multi-piece rims shall only be inflated when constrained by
     a restraining device or placed in a tire cage referenced in Figure 32.3 Tires on multi-
     piece rims mounted on vehicles that are more than 20 percent under-inflated shall not be
     re-inflated until inspected by a qualified person and the tire certified safe to re-inflate.
     Safeguards, such as chains or remote control inflation systems, shall be used to encase the
     wheel and tire during the re-inflation process. Supervisors shall ensure no personnel are
     in the trajectory area during tire re-inflation. Heat shall not be applied to a multi-piece
     rim with a tire mounted on it. Exception: After the tire is completely deflated, the lug
     nuts may be heated briefly to facilitate their removal.
  32.14.5. Safe Operating Procedure — Single Piece Rim Wheels. The supervisor shall
  establish a safe operating procedure for servicing single piece rim wheels and shall ensure
  workers are instructed in and follow that procedure. The procedure shall include as a
  minimum the following elements:
     32.14.5.1. Tires shall be completely deflated by removing the valve core before
     demounting. Mechanical devices, such as dollies, shall be used to mount or remove large,
     heavy tires.
     32.14.5.2. Mounting and demounting of tire shall be performed only from the narrow
     ledge side of wheel. Care shall be taken to avoid damage to tire beads while mounting
     tires on wheels. Tires shall be mounted only on compatible wheels of matching bead
     diameter.
     32.14.5.3. A nonflammable rubber lubricant shall be applied to bead and wheel mating
     surfaces before assembly of the rim wheel and inflation of tire.
     32.14.5.4. If a bead expander is used to seat the beads, it shall be removed before the
     valve core is installed and before the tire is inflated to more than 10 psi.
642                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      32.14.5.5. Tires may be inflated above 10 psi only when contained within a restraining
      device, positioned behind a barrier or bolted on the vehicle with lug nuts fully tightened.
      Tires shall never be serviced above the pressure stamped on the tire sidewall, unless the
      manufacturer recommends a higher pressure.
      32.14.5.6. When inflating a tire, workers shall not place a rim wheel where it will rest
      against or within one foot of any flat solid surface, as measured from the sidewall.
      Exception: Hold-down components of a restraining device may be placed within one
      foot of the sidewall.
      32.14.5.7. Tires shall not be inflated to more than their recommended operating pressure.
      The proper tire inflation pressure, tire size and load range can be found on the vehicle
      information/data plates or stenciled on the door jamb/glove box or as specified in the
      Dash-1 TO or owner‘s manual. If this information is not available, TO 36-1-191,
      Technical and Managerial Reference For Motor Vehicle Maintenance or the Tire and
      Rim Association Handbook, shall be used to obtain the recommended tire pressure. Refer
      to paragraph 32.14.5.5 for additional guidance.
      32.14.5.8. Workers shall stay out of the trajectory when inflating a tire. Refer to Figure
      32.2 and Figure 32.4 for trajectory examples.
      32.14.5.9. If the tire beads are not fully seated by the time the tire is inflated to its
      recommended pressure, the tire shall be deflated and rim wheel disassembled. The wheel
      and tire shall be rechecked for compatibility, re-lubricated, repositioned and then re-
      inflated IAW paragraphs 32.14.5.2 thru 32.14.5.7.
      32.14.5.10. No heat shall be applied to a single piece wheel when a tire is mounted on it.
      Exception: After the tire is completely deflated, the lug nuts may be briefly heated to
      facilitate their removal.
      32.14.5.11. Cracked, broken, bent or otherwise damaged wheels shall not be reworked,
      welded, brazed or otherwise heated, except as provided in paragraph 32.14.5.10
      32.14.5.12. High pressure air shall not be used to inflate tires.
      32.14.5.13. Rims shall be inspected and maintained IAW the individual equipment
      manufacturer‘s rim manuals or TO 36-1-191. See Figure 32.1 for additional information.
  32.14.6. Demounting, Mounting and Inflating All Types of Tires.
      32.14.6.1. Personnel shall:
         32.14.6.1.1. Respect the potential power and explosive force of air under pressure.
         Serious mishaps have resulted from lack of awareness of the explosive potential of
         compressed air. Respect it as you would an explosive!
         32.14.6.1.2. Make sure all tools are in good condition – not damaged, dented or
         deformed.
         32.14.6.1.3. Remove valve core and exhaust all air from the tire (or tires, in the case
         of a dual assembly), before demounting. Probe the valve stem with a wire as a final
         check to ensure the valve is not obstructed by a foreign material. Caution: Do not
         stand in front of valve opening, as dirt particles may be blown into eyes.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         643



        32.14.6.1.4. Block vehicle so it cannot roll forward or backward after it is lifted.
        32.14.6.1.5. Place large hardwood blocks under the jack, regardless of how hard or
        firm the ground appears.
        32.14.6.1.6. Place safety jack stands – or crib up with blocks – at an appropriate spot
        under the vehicle, in case the jack slips.
        32.14.6.1.7. Check rim diameter to ensure it exactly matches rim diameter molded on
        tire.
        32.14.6.1.8. Clean and inspect used rim parts thoroughly.
        32.14.6.1.9. Use new tubes and new flaps in new tires.
        32.14.6.1.10. Inspect inside of tire for loose cords, cuts, penetrating objects or other
        carcass damage. Tires that are damaged beyond simple repair shall be removed from
        service. Remove dirt, debris and liquids from inside of tire before tube is installed.
        32.14.6.1.11. Lubricate with approved rubber lubricant, such as thin vegetable oil or
        soap solution.
        32.14.6.1.12. Use a clip-on chuck and extension hose with remote control valve and
        pressure gauge, long enough to allow you to stand to one side – not in front of the
        assembly – during inflation.
        32.14.6.1.13. Center tire properly on rim before inflating.
        32.14.6.1.14. Securely lock wheel down or place assembly in safety cage or portable
        safety device before attempting to inflate tire to seat beads.
        32.14.6.1.15. Position the vehicle crane boom in the center of the hub prior to
        inflation of off-the-road tires in field service work.
        32.14.6.1.16. Check for proper flange and lock ring seating.
        32.14.6.1.17. Adjust air pressure to manufacturer‘s recommended cold operating
        pressure after beads have been seated.
        32.14.6.1.18. Inspect valve cores for proper air retention. Replace damaged or leaky
        cores.
     32.14.6.2. Personnel shall not:
        32.14.6.2.1. Work on tire and rim assemblies until they review applicable safety
        practices and procedures.
        32.14.6.2.2. Loosen lug nuts on dual equipment with split or multi-piece rims until
        all air is exhausted from both tires. A broken or cracked rim part under pressure may
        blow apart and seriously injure or kill if lugs are removed before air is exhausted.
        32.14.6.2.3. Apply heat or do repair work on an inflated tire, rim or wheel assembly.
        Heat can increase tire air pressure sufficient to burst the tire or rim.
        32.14.6.2.4. Re-inflate a tire that has been run flat or seriously under-inflated without
        demounting that tire and checking tire and tube for damage.
 644                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          32.14.6.2.5. Mix rim parts of different manufacturers unless approved by those
          manufacturers.
          32.14.6.2.6. Rework, weld, heat or braze rim parts. Always replace damaged parts
          with same size, type and make.
          32.14.6.2.7. Reuse tubes or flaps that have buckled or creased.
          32.14.6.2.8. Use a tube in a tire larger or smaller than that for which the tube was
          designed.
          32.14.6.2.9. Inflate beyond recommended bead seating pressure.
          32.14.6.2.10. Stand over tire when inflating.
32.15. Maintenance Operations.
   32.15.1. Body Shops.
       32.15.1.1. Jagged edges of mangled fenders, decks and quarter panels can be razor sharp.
       Protective gloves shall be worn when handling them.
       32.15.1.2. A full protective plastic face shield plus safety glasses or goggles shall be
       worn while cutting or grinding glass. If handling large sheets of glass, gloves shall be
       used for a better grip and to keep hands from being cut.
   32.15.2. Welding in Vehicle Maintenance Shops.
       32.15.2.1. General Precautions.
          32.15.2.1.1. Inspect all equipment regularly. Equipment with worn, leaky or burned
          hoses or damaged cables and connections shall not be used.
          32.15.2.1.2. Never weld or cut gas tanks, oil barrels or drums without first purging
          and inerting them.
          32.15.2.1.3. Weld behind flame resistant screens or in booths to protect other
          workers from flying sparks and flash burns. Refer to Chapter 27 for additional
          guidance.
          32.15.2.1.4. Always provide adequate ventilation. Arrange work so air movement
          pulls fumes away from the breathing zone.
          32.15.2.1.5. Wear clean, oil free, flame resistant clothing while welding. Wear
          protective gloves and apron (hearing protection may be required for some welding
          operations).
          32.15.2.1.6. Wear special welder‘s goggles as specified in Chapter 27 (a welding
          helmet may also be required).
          32.15.2.1.7. Provide a suitable fire extinguisher and pails of sand in the vicinity of
          the welding area. Mount fire extinguishers (if space permits) on portable welding
          carts used in locations where adequate fire extinguishers are not available.
          32.15.2.1.8. Always mark hot work either with a sign or with chalk on the work
          itself.
          32.15.2.1.9. Store welding equipment securely when not in use.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       645



         32.15.2.1.10. Have welding tasks evaluated by BE to determine the need for (and
         type of) respiratory protection.
     32.15.2.2. Gas Welding.
         32.15.2.2.1. Store cylinders in areas that are isolated, protected, ventilated, dry and
         removed from any heat source.
         32.15.2.2.2. Store oxygen cylinders and welding gas cylinders at least 20 feet apart
         or separate them with a flame resistant barrier at least 5 feet high when not connected
         for use.
         32.15.2.2.3. Keep oxygen cylinders at least 35 feet away from oil, oil pits and grease.
         32.15.2.2.4. Keep cylinder valve caps in place when cylinders are not connected for
         use.
         32.15.2.2.5. Shut cylinder valves off tightly when not in use.
         32.15.2.2.6. Do not use acetylene with the tank pressure less than 15 psi.
         32.15.2.2.7. Always leave the shutoff wrench on the valve stem.
         32.15.2.2.8. Secure all tanks with a chain or fire resistant strap.
         32.15.2.2.9. Ensure cylinder contents are identified before use.
     32.15.2.3. Electric Arc Welding.
         32.15.2.3.1. Carefully spread out cables while performing work. Avoid placing
         cables in walkway areas to prevent tripping hazards.
         32.15.2.3.2. Join ground and electrode cables with connectors designed for that
         purpose.
         32.15.2.3.3. Do not allow splices in the cable within 10 feet of the electrode holder.
         32.15.2.3.4. To avoid electrical shock, check all connections, ground the work piece,
         do not weld in wet locations and do not use wet machines until they are dry and
         tested.
         32.15.2.3.5. Store electrode holders in a safe location away from objects which
         conduct electricity.
  32.15.3. Mobile Maintenance. Vehicles used routinely for mobile maintenance shall include
  as part of their equipment: baking soda for neutralizing acid spills, adequate fire
  extinguishers, container of water and eye and/or face protection for use by individual
  performing vehicle jump start procedures. Note: In cold climate regions, effort shall be
  made to prevent container of water from freezing.
  32.15.4. Air Conditioning Maintenance. Gas and liquid coolants used in automotive air
  conditioners shall be handled with care, especially those stored under pressure. Eye and face
  protection and gloves shall be worn while servicing or purging these systems.
  32.15.5. Radiator Maintenance.
646                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      32.15.5.1. Never open a pressurized radiator while the engine is hot. Use eye protection
      and caution when boiling out radiators. The cleaning solutions contain caustic chemicals
      that will burn if splashed on the skin or face. Flush the skin with water if splashed.
      32.15.5.2. Wear protective gloves when handling a damaged radiator because it may
      have jagged metal edges.
  32.15.6. Fuel Tank Repairs.
      32.15.6.1. Vehicles with leaking fuel tanks shall be removed from the shop immediately.
      Ground the siphon tank and pump out remaining fuel into a safety can.
      32.15.6.2. If the tank requires welding, cutting or soldering, clean out all fuel and fuel
      vapors. The best way to do this is by steam cleaning. Steam the tank, both inside and
      outside, for at least 10 minutes. Flush out the tank with hot water for five (5) minutes.
      Then dry the inside and outside thoroughly, using warm air. After cleaning, check for
      fuel odor and, if needed, repeat the cleaning process. Test the tank for vapors prior to any
      welding.
  32.15.7. Refueler Vehicle Maintenance Areas.
      32.15.7.1. Open flames and spark-producing devices are prohibited within 50 feet of the
      refueling maintenance shop when a refueling vehicle is undergoing maintenance and fuel
      vapors are likely to be present. There shall be no smoking within 50 feet of a refueler
      maintenance building. Danger signs shall be posted in the immediate area and worded as
      follows: NO OPEN FLAME OR IGNITION SOURCE BEYOND THIS POINT or the
      nearest commercially available equivalent. Refer to Chapter 36, Hydrocarbon Fuels, for
      additional guidance.
      32.15.7.2. Static Grounding. Aircraft refuelers shall have a static ground system in
      serviceable condition. Refueling equipment in a refueler maintenance facility or
      undergoing maintenance shall be connected to a serviceable ground at all times, except
      when the vehicle is in motion. Refueling maintenance support equipment shall be
      grounded. Storage bins shall be grounded if located inside the maintenance bay. Ramp
      ground rods shall have resistance values of 10,000 ohms or less. These static grounds do
      not require retesting unless damaged or if the system has a deficiency. Any static ground
      which measures greater than 10,000 ohms shall be removed or replaced. Static ground
      test data shall be maintained by the installation CE. Fuel nozzle static grounding shall be
      IAW TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding. Only
      approved 75 amp ground clips, for example, National Stock Number (NSN) 5999-00-
      134-5844, shall be used IAW TO 00-25-172. Alligator clips shall not be used to ground
      or bond aircraft and support equipment. Only specified ground wire shall be used in the
      shop or on refueling equipment. Ground cables shall be inspected weekly for broken
      strands. Repaired or newly constructed grounding cable assemblies shall be checked for
      continuity. Refueling maintenance personnel shall check bonding devices on all aircraft
      refueling units and associated equipment to ensure proper bonding prior to use.
      32.15.7.3. The supporting Air Force weather organization, IAW the weather support
      document, shall advise the Fuels Management Flight of adverse or mission-limiting
      weather, such as thunderstorms, lightning, strong winds, heavy rain, snow or freezing
      precipitation. All maintenance on fuel systems of fuel servicing vehicles shall cease work
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        647



     conducted outside. The supporting Air Force weather organization shall advise the Fuels
     Service Center (FSC) when the adverse weather advisory is terminated. Refer to Chapter
     11, Weather Safety, for additional information on weather.
     32.15.7.4. As an extra precaution, personnel shall ground themselves prior to entering a
     refueler maintenance shop. Several methods can be used to discharge static electricity
     from the body. If the facility or building is metal, it shall be grounded and bonded.
     Personnel can ground themselves by touching their hand to the bare metal. By touching
     their bare hand to the door knob they are grounded (if the door is metal and sufficiently
     bonded to the metal structure).
     32.15.7.5. The NEC and NFPA codes provide guidance and/or requirements for
     electrical equipment and wiring in locations where fire or explosion hazards may exist
     due to flammable gases or vapors and flammable liquids. The classification used for
     flammable gases, vapors and liquids is Class I, Division 1 or 2, Group D and is used to
     design facilities and buildings. The Division 1 location is in areas below floor level (a pit
     or depression) and the Division 2 location is in areas up to 18 inches above the floor as
     defined in NEC Articles 511 and 513. This classification does not mean the building is a
     hazardous location or the working environment is a hazardous area at all times. Certain
     areas in the building may become hazardous when working on fuel systems, fuel leaks
     occur or excessive vapors exist due to venting. If the working environment has
     flammable vapors greater than 20 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL), the
     operation shall be shut down until the vapors are removed to maintain a safe working
     environment.
     32.15.7.6. Whenever major maintenance is required to the main tank, all fuel and fuel
     vapors shall be cleaned out from the tank pumping system and filter separator and the
     tank purged prior to any maintenance. Cleaning procedures shall comply with TO
     36Y31-1-1, Removal of Rust and Sediment from Fuel and Oil Servicing Truck and
     Trailer Tanks and Application of Coating, Interior, Fuel and Water Resistant.
     Precautions outlined in the applicable TO of the equipment being serviced shall be
     followed.
     32.15.7.7. When fuel filter elements are changed, old filters shall be disposed of IAW
     installation Environmental Management office regulations.
     32.15.7.8. A minimum of two (2) persons, one qualified in the task to be performed and
     the other a safety observer to provide assistance, shall be available in the refueling
     maintenance site whenever repairs are done on a vehicle fuel system. For minor
     maintenance after duty hours, the Vehicle Flight Commander may waive, in writing, the
     two-person policy if all safety precautions are taken and a qualified 5-skill level
     mechanic does the work. Note: A vehicle operator for the type of equipment being
     repaired may be the second person. Refer to AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, for
     additional guidance.
     32.15.7.9. Personnel performing maintenance on fuel trucks shall not wear shoes with
     exposed nails or metal plates.
648                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      32.15.7.10. Clothing containing more than 65 percent nylon, rayon, wool or polyester
      shall not be worn as outer garments when working with/around low flash point fuels.
      Flak vests shall not be worn during aircraft fuel servicing operations or during fuel
      operations where low flashpoint vapors may be present. In all cases (i.e., servicing with
      any fuel), a worker wearing a flak vest will always ground or bond him or herself when
      approaching an aircraft and prior to beginning work. If no spark occurs during bonding or
      grounding, normal work may begin. However, if a spark does occur during bonding or
      grounding, the worker will ground or bond him or herself frequently during all work
      phases. Note: Commanders may authorize wear of body armor/flak vests and Gortex-
      type clothing in combat areas. Outer garments shall not be removed or put on in the work
      area. Matches or lighters shall not be handled or removed from pockets.
      32.15.7.11. All tools used in the refueling maintenance shop shall be approved for such
      use.
      32.15.7.12. Axle stands, rated at least 10 tons, shall be used for axle support on refuelers.
      32.15.7.13. Hydraulic jacks, rated at least 10 tons, shall be used when lifting refueling
      vehicles.
  32.15.8. Refueler Maintenance Buildings.
      32.15.8.1. An empty refueling vehicle containing fuel vapors is a potential bomb and
      shall be treated as such. Except under conditions listed below, no other vehicular
      equipment will be serviced or repaired in refueler maintenance shops when fuel servicing
      vehicles are present.
         32.15.8.1.1. Vehicle(s) containing only JP-5, JP-8, JP-10 or other high flashpoint
         fuels may be serviced or repaired in refueler maintenance shops with fuel servicing
         vehicles present.
         32.15.8.1.2. Vehicle(s) containing only JP-4, AV-gas, Mo-gas or other low flashpoint
         fuels may be serviced or repaired in refueler maintenance shops only if no other fuel
         servicing vehicles are present. Note 1: For remote/austere locations or where vehicle
         maintenance services are distant to the location where refueling vehicles are assigned,
         commanders may authorize minor maintenance (i.e., lubrication, oil and filter
         changes, headlight and tire changes, etc.) in facilities not designed for refueler
         maintenance if the refueler vehicle is used to transport and operates on only high
         flashpoint fuels (i.e., the refueler transports and operates only on JP-8). Note 2:
         While the exceptions provide commanders additional flexibility, organizations shall
         still perform and document an appropriate risk assessment prior to introducing other
         vehicles into a refueler maintenance facility or performing maintenance on refuelers
         in other than a refueler maintenance facility. Risk assessments shall be coordinated
         with the installation FES Flight and Ground Safety office.
         32.15.8.1.3. Because of the large number of fueling vehicles and carts normally
         assigned, an AF installation shall have a separately sited maintenance and repair
         facility. It shall be physically separated from other inhabited structures and any other
         source of ignition by at least 50 feet. Due to space restrictions and the low number of
         fueling vehicles and carts normally assigned to an Air National Guard unit, a
         separately sited maintenance and repair facility, separated from other inhabited
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         649



         structures and any other source of ignition by at least 50 feet, is recommended. Refer
         to AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, and AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility
         Requirements, for additional guidance.
     32.15.8.2. The refueling maintenance shop should be located near the refueling vehicle
     parking area to minimize travel distance and help keep refuelers off installation streets.
     32.15.8.3. The shop should be located so the installation FES Flight will have immediate
     and direct access on paved roads. One or two minutes saved in response time may mean
     the difference between saving or losing the facility.
     32.15.8.4. Both external and internal earth grounds shall be provided for the refuelers
     and a lightning protection system provided for the structure.
     32.15.8.5. Separate locker areas, washing areas and eating areas shall be provided for
     workers. Adequate PPE for exposure to liquid fuels and vapors shall be provided. Refer
     to AFI 23-302 and AFI 32-1024 for additional information.
     32.15.8.6. The amount of space required for refueler maintenance areas is determined by
     the number of refueling vehicles assigned. Refer to AFI 32-1024 for specific
     requirements.
     32.15.8.7. Contamination from floor drains is a potential fire, safety and health hazard.
     Floor drains shall be kept clean at all times. Solvent or fuel shall not be used to clean
     floor drains. Protective clothing such as goggles, rubber boots and gloves shall be worn
     during drain cleaning.
  32.15.9. Vehicle Maintenance Repair Pits.
     32.15.9.1. Vehicle repair pits shall be guarded. The type of guard used is dependent on
     the location, reason for the opening and frequency of use. Where railings are used, they
     shall be permanently attached leaving only one exposed side. The exposed side shall have
     a removable railing kept in place when not in use. It shall be painted yellow to designate
     caution.
     32.15.9.2. A vertical barrier shall be placed at the floor level, along open edges of the pit,
     to prevent materials, tools, etc., from dropping and striking workers.
     32.15.9.3. All pits equipped with steps shall have handrails and approved (NEC/NFPA)
     lighting. Steps shall be painted, coated or made with an approved nonskid material to
     prevent slippage.
     32.15.9.4. Adequate explosion-proof lighting shall be installed in pits or portable
     explosion-proof extension lights furnished.
     32.15.9.5. Pits shall be built with drains equipped with oil or grease traps, shall not be
     connected to sanitary sewers. In addition, local exhaust should be provided to remove
     vapors. Refer to BE‘s OEH risk assessment for additional guidance. Exhaust fans used in
     pit ventilation systems shall be suitable for use with fuel vapors, i.e., have explosion-
     proof motors and non-sparking blades IAW NEC/NFPA. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for
     additional guidance.
 650                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       32.15.9.6. Pit contamination is a potential fire, safety and health hazard. Pits shall be
       cleaned regularly with soap and water or an approved caustic solution, but not flammable
       or combustible solvents. PPE, including goggles, rubber boots and gloves, shall be worn
       during pit cleaning.
       32.15.9.7. To prevent accumulation of hazardous gases, the vehicle engine shall not be
       operated while a vehicle is positioned over a repair pit, unless required by manufacturer‘s
       instructions or TO.

Table 32.1. PPE Requirements For Frequently Performed Vehicle Maintenance
Operations Where PPE Is Required.
 PPE Requirements For Frequently Performed Vehicle Maintenance Operations Where
                                     PPE Is Required
Operation                              PPE Type
Battery Handling                       Side and frontal eye protection
                                       Acid resistant gloves
                                       Arm gauntlets or extended length gloves
                                       Acid resistant apron
                                       Acid resistant shoes or boots (only when performing
                                       battery maintenance)
Body Shop                              Gloves
                                       Eye protection and face shield. (See Note below.)
                                       Respiratory protection may be required during
                                       sanding operations - consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                       assessment
                                       Hearing protection
Brake Shop                             Respiratory protection - consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                       assessment
Cleaning Tank (when processing parts   Eye protection
in cleaning tank)                      Respiratory protection may be required - consult
                                       BE‘s OEH risk assessment
                                       Apron
                                       Gloves
                                       Boots
Compressed Air Cleaning                Eye protection and face shield. (See Note below.)
Machinery and Grinders                 Eye protection and face shield. (See Note below.)
                                       Respiratory protection - consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                       assessment
Mobile Maintenance                     Eye protection and face shield. (See Note below.)
                                       Gloves
Paint Shop                             Protective clothing
                                       Respiratory protection - consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                       assessment
                                       Eye protection
                                       Rubber gloves
Radiator Shop (during boiling out      Eye protection
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      651



 PPE Requirements For Frequently Performed Vehicle Maintenance Operations Where
                                        PPE Is Required
Operation                                   PPE Type
operation)                                  Gloves
Refueler Vehicle Maintenance                Cotton/polyester uniform (50/50), JP-8 Coveralls
                                            Non-sparking safety shoes
                                            Respiratory protection may be required - consult
                                            BE‘s OEH risk assessment
Repair Pits                                 Eye protection
                                            Head protection
                                            Rubber boots
                                            Gloves as appropriate
Soldering                                   Vented goggles
                                            Face shield
                                            Head covering (when soldering overhead)
Tire Shop                                   Gloves
                                            Eye protection
                                            Foot protection
                                            Hearing protection
Welding                                     Eye protection and face shield. (See Note below.)
                                            Head protection (when welding overhead)
                                            Foot protection
                                            Flame resistant clothing
                                            Gloves
                                            Apron
                                            Welder‘s goggles or welding helmet (refer to
                                            Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, for lens
                                            shade requirements)
                                            Respiratory protection (may not be required when
                                            adequate exhaust ventilation is used - consult BE‘s
                                            OEH risk assessment)
Note 1: PPE listed above are the minimum requirements. Functional managers, Ground Safety
office, BE, and Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), shall be consulted to
determine specific PPE requirements for all Vehicle Maintenance Operations.
Note 2: Safety goggles, face shield, safety glasses (glasses with shatterproof lens and side
protector shields) or a combination thereof, shall be worn during operations requiring use of
power and/or hand tools where airborne fragments of the tool and/or work material may contact
the eyes, face or neck. These operations include, but are not limited to, drilling, grinding,
chipping, cutting (with chisel), sandblasting and scaling metals. Approved eye protection is
mandatory while using stone or wire wheel grinders regardless of whether or not eye shields are
installed on the grinders. However, face shields are not mandatory. Face shields are secondary
protection and must be worn in conjunction with approved eye protection, i.e., goggles.
 652                                                        AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 32.2. Cylinder Data for Commonly Used Gases.
                    Cylinder Data for Commonly Used Gases
   Gas       Chemical      Usual        Capacity of    Calculated       Fire
               Symbol    Cylinder Typical Cylinders    Density at      Hazard
                         Pressure                         32°F
                          at 70°F                     Atmospheric
                         Pressure
                           (psi)
                                     Cu. Ft.  Lb.
Acetylene    C2H2       250          300      22     0.91             Severe
Air,         …          1600 –       200      15     1.0              None
Compressed              3600
Argon        A          1600 –       200      21     1.38             None
                        2000
Butane       C4H4       19           780      122    1.87             Severe
Carbon       CO2        830          440      50     1.53             None
Dioxide
Helium       He          1600 –      200       2.2   0.138            None
                         2000
Hydrogen     H2          1600 –      200       1.0   0.069            Severe
                         2000
Nitrogen     N1          1600 –      225       16    0.97             None
                         3600
Oxygen       O2          1600 –      245       20    1.11             Intensifies
                         3000
Propane      C3H8        110         850       100   1.56             Severe
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   653



Figure 32.1. Effects of Rim Design On Proper Mounting Position.




IMPORTANT: Proper Procedures For Demounting and Mounting Tubeless Passenger
Car Tires. In Both Mounting and Demounting, Always Start With the Narrow Bead Ledge.

Figure 32.2. Using Extension Hose to Inflate a Tire.




TIRE MOUNTING WARNING! Failure to comply with these procedures may result in
faulty positioning of tire rim parts and may cause assembly to burst with explosive force,
sufficient to cause serious physical injury or death. Never mount or use damaged tires or
rims.
 654                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 32.3. Tire Inflator Cage.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                             655



Figure 32.4. Trajectory for Rim and Tire Fragments.




32.16. Motor Vehicles – Operation and Maintenance Checklist. This is not an all inclusive
checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within
this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate,
MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to
include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   32.16.1. Are vehicle maintenance operations, such as painting, welding, battery work, and
   wheel and tire maintenance operations performed in separate parts of the facility to prevent
   operations of one kind from being hazardous to another? Reference 32.2.4.2
   32.16.2. Are vented lockers provided for workers‘ clothing? Reference 32.2.4.4
   32.16.3. Is the consumption of foods or drinks prohibited in paint shops? Reference 32.3.5
   32.16.4. Do vehicle operators and mechanics sound vehicle horns before backing,
   intermittently during backing (unless vehicle is equipped with backup alarms) and prior to
   entering or leaving the maintenance shop? Reference 32.4.3
   32.16.5. Do vehicle operators and mechanics ensure roll down or side sliding doors are
   completely opened before a vehicle enters or exits the maintenance shop? Reference 32.4.3
   32.16.6. Are emergency eyewash station(s) provided for workers who may come in contact
   with corrosive materials? Reference 32.4.7
   32.16.7. Do workers remove all items of jewelry before working on or around shop
   equipment or vehicles? Reference 32.4.8
   32.16.8. Where compressed air is used for cleaning, is the discharge end of the air line
   restricted to less than 30 psi? Reference 32.4.14.4
656                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  32.16.9. Are tools not in use kept in suitable containers? Reference 32.4.15.4
  32.16.10. Is the use of flame-producing equipment prohibited in refueler maintenance
  shops? Reference 32.5.1.1
  32.16.11. Are workers prohibited from storing fuel-contaminated clothing in lockers or other
  confined areas? Reference 32.7.1.1
  32.16.12. Is the storage, use and handling of flammable and combustible liquids
  accomplished according to Chapter 22 and local FES Flight requirements? Reference
  32.7.2.1
  32.16.13. Is clear, unrestricted access maintained to on-off power control switches and
  stations? Reference 32.8.2
  32.16.14. Is the use of flammable liquid for cleaning shop floors prohibited? Reference
  32.9.1.4
  32.16.15. Are all compressed gas cylinders stored upright with valves closed and protective
  caps in place? Reference 32.12.2.5.4
  32.16.16. Do operators using hydraulic vehicle lifts ensure vehicle doors, hood and trunk are
  closed, no one is inside the vehicle prior to lifting it? Reference 32.13.3.1.1
  32.16.17. Are workers prohibited from working under vehicles supported only on hydraulic
  floor jacks, post jacks or mechanical jacks? Reference 32.13.3.3
  32.16.18. Are current OSHA tire charts (such as OSHA 3086), rim manuals, and applicable
  TOs available to ensure extensive damage to equipment and serious or fatal injuries to
  personnel are prevented? Reference 32.14.1.1
  32.16.19. Are tires on multi-piece rim wheels completely deflated by removing the valve
  core before the rim wheel is removed from the axle? Reference 32.14.4.1
  32.16.20. When reinflation of tires installed on multi-piece rims is approved for tires already
  mounted on the vehicle, are safeguards used to encase the wheel and tire (chains, remote
  control inflation equipment, etc.)? Reference 32.14.4.3
  32.16.21. Are personnel out of the trajectory when inflating tires? Reference 32.14.5.8
  32.16.22. Is the loosening of lug nuts on dual wheels prohibited until all air is exhausted
  from both tires? Reference 32.14.6.2.2
  32.16.23. Are all gas tanks, oil barrels or drums purged and inerted before any welding or
  cutting is attempted? Reference 32.15.2.1.2
  32.16.24. Are hot pressurized radiators not opened while the engine is hot? Reference
  32.15.5.1
  32.16.25. Are vehicles with leaking fuel tanks immediately removed from the maintenance
  shop? Reference 32.15.6.1
  32.16.26. Are open flame and spark-producing devices kept at least 50 feet from the
  refueling maintenance shop? Reference 32.15.7.1
  32.16.27. Are refueling vehicles and/or equipment grounded when in the refueler
  maintenance facility or when undergoing maintenance? Reference 32.15.7.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   657



  32.16.28. Are refueling vehicle tank pumping systems, filter separator and the tank cleaned
  out and purged prior to performing major maintenance on the main tank? Reference
  32.15.7.6.
  32.16.29. Is maintenance of fuel servicing vehicles prohibited in maintenance shops with
  other vehicular equipment? Reference 32.15.8.1
  32.16.30. Are vehicle maintenance repair pits guarded? Reference 32.15.9.1
 658                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 33

                                   COMPOSITE MATERIALS

33.1. Hazards and Human Factors. Composite materials (e.g., fiberglass, carbon fiber,
Kevlar, etc.) are widely used in Air Force operations. These materials can present potentially
serious health and safety hazards to personnel unless specific precautions are taken.
Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH) personnel must evaluate operations
involving fabrication, repair and handling of composite materials to assure adequate precautions
are taken to prevent injury or illness to personnel and/or damage to equipment. Guidance
contained in this document refers to applicable TOs for using composite materials. JSAs,
paragraph 1.5., Job Safety Analysis, AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, and AFPAM
90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, shall be observed and
adhered to when working with composite materials. For additional information, the OSHA
Technical Manual, Section III, Polymer Matrix Materials: Advanced Composites, is available at
http://www.osha.gov/dts/osta/otm/otm_iii/otm_iii_1.html. Managers, supervisors and workers
shall be aware of human factors that can lead to worker error, injury or adverse effects on their
operations. Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, for additional guidance. Composite operations
involving confined spaces shall follow guidance in Chapter 23, Confined Spaces.
33.2. Specific Responsibilities.
   33.2.1. Functional Managers and Supervisors shall:
       33.2.1.1. Ensure all personnel who work with or handle composite materials receive the
       appropriate level of training associated with required tasks.
       33.2.1.2. Ensure workers performing composite repair and fabrication tasks, or handling
       or using hazardous materials, receive the appropriate level of hazard communication
       training IAW AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
       33.2.1.3. Ensure Materials Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are available for all hazardous
       materials used in composite work tasks.
       33.2.1.4. Ensure workers handling and storing flammable or combustible chemicals are
       trained in fire prevention and protection. Refer to Chapter 6, Fire Protection and
       Prevention, for additional guidance.
       33.2.1.5. Ensure appropriate spill and containment control procedures, and materials are
       readily available in areas where composite materials are stored, dispensed or used.
       33.2.1.6. Ensure appropriate PPE is available and worn when handling composite
       materials and chemicals.
       33.2.1.7. Ensure all hazardous composite materials and chemicals are authorized through
       the Hazardous Material Pharmacy.
       33.2.1.8. Coordinate with the installation Environmental Management office to establish
       procedures for hazardous waste disposal.
33.3. General Requirements.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     659



  33.3.1. Composite materials require careful handling at all times. Many of the chemicals and
  materials used in composite fabrication and repairs pose serious health or fire hazards and
  must be used and handled with care. Air Force personnel must be made aware of the
  potential hazards associated with composite materials through appropriate training. Workers
  shall refer to the MSDS prior to starting any work when hazardous materials or chemicals are
  involved or needed for the process. As a minimum, job safety training shall include: need for
  and use of approved PPE; maintenance and care of PPE; safe chemical handling procedures;
  and emergency treatment practices in case of exposure, ingestion or inhalation of liquids,
  vapors or dusts from composite operations. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective
  Equipment (PPE), and AFI 90-821, for additional guidance.
  33.3.2. Training. All personnel who work with composite materials shall be trained on the
  hazardous properties of chemicals and materials used. This training shall be documented on
  the individual‘s AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, IAW AFI 91-202, The US
  Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.
  33.3.3. Hazard Communication. Workers performing composite repair and fabrication tasks
  shall receive the appropriate level of hazard communication training and shall ensure MSDS
  are available for all hazardous materials prior to performing work. Refer to AFI 90-821 for
  additional guidance.
  33.3.4. Eyewash and Emergency Showers. Due to the potential for eye and skin contact with
  resins, catalysts and fibrous materials, eyewash and emergency shower facilities for
  composite repair shops shall be installed as required by Chapter 19, Emergency Shower and
  Eyewash Units. Coordinate with the installation Ground Safety office to determine the
  appropriate type and location.
  33.3.5. Exposure Monitoring. Supervisors shall consult with BE to ensure workers who may
  be potentially exposed to airborne composite materials are monitored, and appropriate
  respiratory protection requirements are established IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137,
  Respiratory Protection Program. Additional protective equipment for workers handling
  composite materials shall be provided IAW Chapter 14. To minimize employee exposure to
  chemicals, unless otherwise directed, catalyze only enough resin for immediate use. Note:
  Do not exceed manufacturer‘s maximum batch size or a violent exothermic reaction may
  result.
  33.3.6. Fire protection. All facilities and operating areas shall have fire protection
  appropriate for their fire hazard classification. Fire protection includes portable fire
  extinguishers, alarm systems, and evacuation and emergency plans. For additional details
  regarding applicable Air Force and NFPA fire protection requirements, consult with the
  installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight. All fire protection equipment shall be
  inspected annually IAW Chapter 6.
  33.3.7. Ventilation Requirements. Ventilation for all composite repair and fabrication shops,
  as well as locations where composites are installed and repaired (i.e., on-aircraft repairs)
  must be based upon the recommendations of BE‘s OEH risk assessment and installed IAW
  the manufacturer‘s instructions.
 660                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   33.3.8. Handling Flammable and Combustible Liquids and Materials. Refer to Chapter 22,
   Flammables and Combustibles, regarding appropriate procedures for handling flammable
   and combustible materials.
   33.3.9. Storage Of Composite Materials. Composite materials, including resins and catalysts,
   shall be stored IAW technical order requirements or, if not available, the manufacturer‘s
   instructions. If neither are available, storage shall be IAW locally developed guidance
   prepared in coordination with the installation FES Flight, Ground Safety office, BE and
   Environmental Management office. Note: Composite materials may be destroyed or
   damaged by improper storage conditions.
       33.3.9.1. Storage Inside Buildings. When inside storage of composite materials is
       required, and the storage is incidental and not the primary purpose of the area, storage
       shall comply with Chapter 22, NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, or
       the manufacturer‘s suggested guidelines.
       33.3.9.2. Outside Storage. Table 22.5 and 22.6 provide maximum quantities and
       separation criteria for outside storage of flammable and combustible liquids. Some
       chemicals used in composite operations are toxic or pose other environmental hazards.
       To minimize the potential for environmental contamination, the installation
       Environmental Management office shall coordinate on the siting of all outside storage
       areas. Refer to Chapter 22 and NFPA 30 for additional guidance and information.
   33.3.10. Electrical Requirements for Flammable Vapor Areas. Facility wiring shall be
   installed and maintained IAW NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, Air Force Civil Engineer
   Fire Protection guidance and any specialized criteria necessary to maintain the safety of the
   operation. Design and installation shall be IAW UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering
   for Facilities.
   33.3.11. Powered and Non-powered Equipment and Tools Used Near Flammable and
   Combustible Materials. Tools and equipment used in composite operations shall be procured,
   installed and maintained such that they pose no ignition source to chemicals, chemical
   byproducts and finished products of the operation.
33.4. Specific Applications.
   33.4.1. Laboratories. All laboratories shall have fire protection appropriate for their fire
   hazard classification. For additional details regarding required fire protection requirements,
   refer to NFPA 45, Standard on Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals, and
   AFOSH Standard 48-22, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories.
   Guidelines for storage and handling of flammable and combustible materials are contained in
   paragraph 22.5.1.
   33.4.2. Military Exchanges, Commissaries and Associate Retail Stores. Facilities offering
   un-reacted composite materials (i.e., auto body fillers, fiberglass repair kits, etc.) shall ensure
   the materials are kept in their original containers and that all manufacturer‘s precautions and
   use information is provided to purchaser at time of sale. Damaged or leaking packages shall
   be removed from sale and disposed of properly. Contact the installation Environmental
   Management office for disposal guidelines. In rooms or areas accessible to the public,
   storage shall be limited to quantities needed for display and normal merchandising purposes.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         661



   For flammable and combustible materials, see paragraph 22.6, and NFPA 30, Flammable and
   Combustible Liquids Code.
33.5. Hazardous Waste Disposal. Supervisors shall coordinate with the installation
Environmental Management office to establish a hazardous waste material list for their unit and
establish procedures for hazardous waste disposal. Refer to AFI 32-7042, Waste Management,
for additional guidance.
33.6. Special Mishap Considerations. Mishaps involving composite materials require special
handling. Although burning composites may be extinguished, these materials may continue to
smolder and outgas toxic vapors. The installation FES Flight, BE and Environmental
Management office shall establish appropriate measures to handle mishaps involving composite
materials. Special fire fighting and debris handling requirements are identified in TO 00-105E-9,
Aerospace Emergency Rescue and Mishap Response Information (Emergency Services). Refer to
the Mishap Composite Awareness Computer Based Training, available at
https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/aco, for additional guidance.
33.7. Use of Composite Materials in New System Acquisition, and System and Process
Modifications. Introduction of composite materials by new system acquisition or modification
of existing systems and processes shall be carefully reviewed for fire protection, ground safety,
health (bioenvironmental concerns), and environmental impact prior to use by the appropriate
Air Force Systems Program Office, Item Manager or Design/Process Engineer, and the technical
data developing organization. These organizations shall ensure necessary safeguards are
identified and in place before Air Force personnel are exposed to the equipment, system or
process. When composite handling/repair/fabrication processes are turned over to a contractor,
the contracting officer shall ensure associated Air Force fire, safety, health and environmental
data is provided to the contractor.
33.8. Composite Materials Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   33.8.1. Are all operations involving fabrication, repair and handling of composite materials
   evaluated by local ESOH personnel to assure adequate precautions are taken to prevent
   injury to personnel, damage to equipment or fire hazards? Reference 33.1
   33.8.2. Do all composite operations involving confined spaces follow guidance in Chapter
   23, Confined Spaces? Reference 33.1
   33.8.3. Are all workers and handlers of composite materials provided with the appropriate
   level of training associated with tasks and hazards related to the work environment?
   Reference 33.2.1.1
   33.8.4. Are MSDSs available for all hazardous materials used in composite work tasks?
   Reference 33.2.1.3
662                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  33.8.5. Are appropriate spill and containment control procedures and materials readily
  available in areas where composite materials are stored, dispensed or used? Reference
  33.2.1.5
  33.8.6. Is the appropriate PPE available and worn when handling composite materials and
  chemicals? Reference 33.2.1.6)
  33.8.7. Are all personnel aware of the potential hazards associated with the use of composite
  materials they work with, or are exposed to? Reference 33.3.1
  33.8.8. Are all personnel who work with composite materials trained on the hazardous
  properties of chemicals and materials used, and is training documented IAW AFI 91-202?
  Reference 33.3.2
  33.8.9. Do all workers performing composite repair and fabrication tasks receive the
  appropriate level of hazard communication training? Reference 33.3.3
  33.8.10. Are eyewash and emergency shower facilities in composite repair shops installed as
  required by Chapter 19, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units? Reference 33.3.4
  33.8.11. Do employees catalyze only enough resin for immediate use, unless otherwise
  directed? Reference 33.3.5
  33.8.12. Is the ventilation for all composite repair and fabrication shops, as well as locations
  where composites are installed and repaired (i.e., on-aircraft repairs) based upon the
  recommendations of BE? Reference 33.3.7
  33.8.13. Are composite materials, including resins and catalysts, stored IAW technical order
  requirements or, if not available, the manufacturer‘s instructions? Reference 33.3.9
  33.8.14. Are tools and equipment used in composite operations procured, installed and
  maintained such that they pose no ignition source to chemicals, chemical byproducts and
  finished products of the operation? Reference 33.3.11
  33.8.15. Do laboratories which use composite materials have fire protection appropriate for
  their respective fire hazard classification? Reference 33.4.1
  33.8.16. Do facilities offering unreacted composite materials (i.e., auto body fillers,
  fiberglass repair kits, etc.) ensure the materials are kept in their original containers and that
  all manufacturer‘s precaution and usage information is provided to purchaser at time of sale?
  Reference 33.4.2)
  33.8.17. Do supervisors coordinate with the installation Environmental Management office
  to establish a hazardous waste material list for their unit and establish procedures for
  hazardous waste disposal? Reference 33.5
  33.8.18. Has the installation FES Flight, Ground Safety office, BE and Environmental
  Management office established appropriate measures to handle mishaps involving composite
  materials? Reference 33.6
  33.8.19. Do organizations developing, acquiring, modifying or using composite materials
  ensure necessary safeguards are identified and in place before AF personnel are exposed to
  the equipment, system or process? Reference 33.7
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                              663



  33.8.20. When composite handling/repair/fabrication processes are turned over to a
  contractor, does the contracting officer ensure associated AF fire, safety, health and
  environmental data is provided to the contractor? Reference 33.7
 664                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 34

         PRECISION MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT LABORATORY (PMEL)

34.1. General Information.
   34.1.1. Housekeeping. A high standard of housekeeping is essential to safe operations in
   laboratories. Dry floors are essential to physical safety. Liquid spills on floors shall be
   immediately cleaned and dried to minimize the possibility of slipping and falling. In addition,
   wet floors provide a conductive surface which may cause electrical shock, injury or death.
   All work and storage areas shall be kept clean and free of unnecessary obstructions.
   Equipment and materials shall be stored in a safe and orderly manner. Refer to Chapter 5,
   Housekeeping, for additional guidance and information.
   34.1.2. Due to the inherent differences between C-E system maintenance and PMEL
   operations, guidance in Chapter 30, Communication Cable, Antenna and Communication
   Electronic (C-E) Systems, shall not be used in PMEL operations.
   34.1.3. PPE Requirements. Table 34.1 contains a partial list of PPE required for frequently
   performed PMEL operations. Consult applicable technical data and Material Safety Data
   Sheets (MSDS) for specific safety guidance for equipment and chemical use. Ground safety
   office and BE should be consulted for additional guidance.
       34.1.3.1. Noise Suppression Devices. In noise hazard areas (85 dBA or greater), as
       determined by BE‘s OEH risk assessment, require all personnel to wear appropriate
       hearing protection. Refer to paragraphs 2.3 and 3.1.2.11 for additional guidance.
       34.1.3.2. Laser Eye Protection (LEP). Appropriate LEP shall be worn when working
       with laser equipment. The installation Laser Safety Officer and BE‘s OEH risk
       assessment shall be consulted for the type of LEP required. Lasers shall be used in a
       controlled area and guarded by the required warning devices. Refer to AFOSH Standard
       48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, for additional information.
       34.1.3.3. Respiratory Protection. Inhalation of toxic levels of hazardous materials may
       cause adverse health effects. These exposures may be short-term or long-term (chronic),
       low-level or high level (acute), or both. Health effects from these exposures may vary
       from minor irritation and temporary illness to permanent organ damage, cancer and
       death. The proper use of approved respirators shall protect the wearer from toxic levels of
       airborne chemicals. AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, provides
       guidance on the proper use and application of respiratory protection. BE‘s OEH risk
       assessment will identify RPP, if necessary. Refer to paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14 for
       additional guidance.
34.2. Specific Hazards. Personnel engaged in PMEL operations are exposed to several
potential hazards. They include, but are not limited to, exposure to electrical and electromagnetic
energy, hazardous chemicals/materials and flammable and combustible liquids and gases. PMEL
personnel are also subject to physical injuries associated with on-site job environments.
Particular attention must be given to protection against exposure to toxic chemicals and ionizing
radiation, because the effects of any exposures are not always immediately apparent. Potential
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         665



health hazards can be managed by following guidance in this standard, adhering to proper work
procedures, engineering controls and facility design, and by using proper PPE and clothing.
   34.2.1. Electrical Hazards. All sources of electrical energy are potentially hazardous if
   proper safety precautions are not routinely followed. Personal injury from electric shock,
   arcing and resulting physical reactions may cause severe or fatal injuries. Safe electrical work
   practices, safe equipment and approved grounding procedures are essential to prevent
   electrical mishaps.
       34.2.1.1. Electric Shock. Personal contact with any voltage source, alternating current
       (AC) or direct current (DC), capable of producing a current flow of 50 milliamperes or
       more through the body, can cause cardiac arrest. The severity of electric shock injury is
       determined by the amount of current flowing through the body, the path of current flow,
       the time of exposure and the body‘s physical condition. Additionally, tissue damage may
       occur to any part of the body exposed to high electrical energy.
       34.2.1.2. Electric Arcing. When a metallic object, such as a tool, comes in contact or
       near contact with a high current source and ground, it becomes a conductor. An
       instantaneous surge of current will flow from the terminal through the tool to ground,
       resulting in a high intensity, high temperature arc. This arc can cause serious burns to the
       body and temporary or permanent blindness.
       34.2.1.3. Physical Reaction to Electric Exposure. A natural reaction after making contact
       with an electric current or exposure to an arc is to repel oneself away from the source.
       This can result in falls or abrupt contact with fixed objects causing serious or fatal
       injuries.
       34.2.1.4. Personnel working on, with or near energized electrical circuits or equipment
       shall not wear rings, watches or other conductive objects. These items could increase
       shock risk, be the source of potentially severe burns or cause a short circuit if dropped
       into equipment. Metal-rimmed eyeglasses shall be secured by a non-metallic band or cord
       to prevent them from falling into energized circuits.
   34.2.2. Radiation Hazards. Radiation is electromagnetic energy in the form of waves or
   particles that radiate into space from an emitting source. Hazardous radiation in PMEL
   operations may be classified as either ionizing radiation or non-ionizing radiation.
       34.2.2.1. Ionizing Radiation. Ionization of matter occurs when an electron orbiting a
       stable atom is expelled. Because ions are charged particles, they are chemically more
       active than their electrically neutral forms. Atoms of all elements can become ionized,
       but only gamma rays, x-rays, alpha particles and beta particles have enough energy to
       create ions. Ionizing radiation can cause chemical changes in biological systems that may
       be cumulative and can be detrimental, and even fatal. Radioactive materials found in
       calibration sources, detection instrument check sources and electron tubes produce
       ionizing radiation. Calibration sources pose the greatest hazard because of the intensities
       involved and can become hazardous when broken or touched directly. Damage to the
       body can occur through exposure to gamma rays from open calibration sources and from
       unsealed radioactive materials if they are inhaled, ingested, passed through openings in
       the body or open wounds. Radioactive electron tubes may pose a hazard when broken or
666                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      stored in large quantities. Refer to AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, for
      guidance on ionizing radiation hazards and AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing
      Radiation Dosimetry, for guidance on use of ionizing radiation detection devices.
      34.2.2.2. Non-ionizing Radiation. Non-ionizing radiation is electromagnetic radiation
      that includes radio waves, microwaves, infrared light and visible light. Unlike ionizing
      radiation, non-ionizing radiation does not have enough photon energy to remove an
      electron from an atom. However, it can still be hazardous. High levels of radio frequency
      and microwave radiation can heat tissue, and if the temperature increase is high enough,
      can adversely affect health. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.97, Nonionizing Radiation, for
      additional guidance on the management of non-ionizing radiation hazards.
      34.2.2.3. Laser Radiation. Laser energy presents a significant hazard to the eyes and skin
      under direct or reflected viewing conditions. The use of optical viewing aids, i.e.,
      binoculars, telescopes, etc., can significantly increase the eye hazard from laser radiation,
      particularly when used to view a point source of radiation. The radiant energy entering
      the eye is increased by the magnifying power of the optical device. Refer to AFOSH
      Standard 48-139 for additional guidance and information on managing laser radiation
      hazards.
      34.2.2.4. Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR). RFR produces heat in body tissues.
      Absorption by specific body organs depends upon the frequency and intensity of the
      RFR. It is possible for a person to absorb damaging amounts of RFR in deep tissue and
      organs with little or no sensation of skin heating. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radio
      Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, for additional guidance and information on
      managing RFR hazards.
  34.2.3. Chemical Hazards. PMEL operations use and may expose personnel to hazardous
  chemicals. OSHA defines a hazardous chemical as any chemical which is a physical or
  health hazard. This definition clearly applies to most of the chemicals typically used in
  PMEL operations. Refer to AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health
  Exposure Controls, for additional guidance and information on the management of hazards
  associated with chemical exposure.
      34.2.3.1. Hydrazine. Hydrazine, a clear, oily liquid having an ammonia-like odor, is one
      of several common and potentially harmful chemicals used in PMEL operations. It can be
      absorbed through the skin, swallowed or inhaled. Because individual sensitivity to the
      odor may vary and prolonged exposure can overcome sensory recognition, the odor
      cannot be relied upon as a warning indicator. If exposed to high concentrations of
      hydrazine for short periods, individuals may experience dizziness, nausea or irritation of
      the eyes, nose, throat or lungs. A yellow discoloration of the skin and eyes may also be
      apparent. Liquid contact may cause skin burns. Very high concentrations may cause
      unconsciousness. Liver and kidney damage may occur if a worker is exposed to
      concentrations above the permissible exposure limits over a long period of time. All
      incidents of hydrazine overexposure as indicated by BE hydrazine sampling results
      and/or any symptoms mentioned above shall be reported IAW AFI 91-204, Safety
      Investigations and Reports. Emergency Power Unit (EPU) test sets and/or pressure
      gauges exposed to hydrazine during normal use or exercises shall be marked/identified to
      prevent accidental exposure or ventilation of gases.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       667



     34.2.3.2. Mercury. Liquid mercury is used in pressure and temperature measuring
     instruments. This liquid can be absorbed through the skin, swallowed or inhaled, but
     breathing the vapor is the most common cause of mercury poisoning. Mercury vaporizes
     at temperatures as low as 10°F. Since mercury vapors are colorless and odorless, they
     may be present anywhere mercury is used. When spilled, liquid mercury breaks up into
     tiny beads that lodge in cracks, mix with dust, and penetrate such porous materials as
     wood or tile. Exposures to high levels of mercury can cause acute poisoning
     characterized by a metallic taste, tightness and pain in the chest, difficulty breathing,
     fever, diarrhea and headaches. However, acute poisoning is rare. A more common
     condition is chronic poisoning, which is caused by long-term exposure to lower levels of
     mercury. Symptoms of chronic poisoning include tremors, emotional changes (e.g., mood
     swings, irritability, nervousness, excessive shyness), insomnia, decreased mental
     function, inflammation of the mouth and gums, increase in saliva, weakness, loss of
     appetite and weight, and impaired digestive and kidney functions. Workers shall be very
     cautious when working with or near mercury. Mercury can accumulate on working
     surfaces and cause a serious health hazard by clinging to clothing, especially knitted
     fabrics, and the soles of shoes, which can cause serious health hazards if inadvertently
     taken home.
        34.2.3.2.1. All equipment containing mercury shall be properly maintained to prevent
        escape of mercury liquid or vapor. Containers of mercury shall be kept tightly capped
        to prevent vapors from escaping. Waste mercury or materials contaminated by
        mercury shall be placed in vapor-tight containers until disposal. Consult BE and
        Environmental Management office for local procedures for disposal of mercury-
        contaminated materials. A copy of these procedures shall be maintained by the PMEL
        shop supervisor. Areas where mercury is used shall be kept separate from other work
        areas and shall be restricted to those workers directly involved in the mercury
        operations. Carpets shall not be placed in areas where mercury is used. Exposure to
        mercury may be controlled through use of enclosed systems that isolate mercury
        processes, regular monitoring of the work environment, good housekeeping and good
        personal hygiene to prevent contamination of clothing, food and tobacco products. If
        mercury is spilled, contact BE and Environmental Management office for local clean-
        up procedures. Refer to TO 42C-1-18, Control, Decontamination, and Disposal of
        Mercury, for guidance on routine handling procedures.
     34.2.3.3. Flux/Solder. The health hazard potential of any soldering operation depends on
     the types of filler metals, fluxes, coatings, cleaning agents, gases, and base metals used,
     and the method of exposure. It is important to know what types of chemicals and
     materials are in use. Electrical solder, such as resin core and lead alloy, is commonly used
     in PMEL operations. Exposure to lead fumes or ingestion of lead residue can present a
     severe hazard. Repeated exposures can result in a gradual accumulation of lead absorbed
     into the bloodstream and stored in bones and tissues. Liquid Solder Flux is commonly
     used in PMEL operations. It may be flammable and is toxic to skin, eyes and respiratory
     tract. Avoid skin and eye contact and all sources of ignition. Adequate ventilation shall be
     provided when using flux and solder to prevent inhalation of fumes and vapors. Refer to
     Chapter 27, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing, and TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice
668                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance, and Test of Electronic Equipment, for
      additional guidance on proper soldering measures.
      34.2.3.4. Solvents/Test        Chemicals.       Trichloroethylene,     trichloroethane,
      trichlorotrifluoroethane and methylene chloride solvents are commonly used for cleaning
      PMEL equipment. Chemical hazards include skin irritations, burns, defatting of skin and
      irritating or harmful vapors. These solvents can be absorbed through the skin and may
      cause liver damage. Sodium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide and ammonium chloride
      are commonly used oxygen test chemicals. Chemical hazards include skin irritations,
      burns and irritating or harmful vapors.
  34.2.4. Compressed Gas Hazards. Many laboratory operations require compressed gases for
  analytical operations. Depending on the particular gas, there is a potential for simultaneous
  exposure to both chemical and mechanical hazards. Gases may be combustible, explosive,
  corrosive, poisonous, inert or a combination of hazards. If the gas is flammable, flash points
  lower than room temperature present a fire/explosion hazard, especially when compounded
  by high rates of diffusion, which allow for fast permeation throughout the laboratory.
  Additional hazards of reactivity and toxicity of the gas, as well as asphyxiation, can be
  caused by high concentrations of even seemingly ―harmless‖ gases, such as nitrogen. Since
  the gases are contained in heavy, highly pressurized metal containers, the large amount of
  potential energy resulting from compression of the gas makes the cylinder a potential rocket
  or fragmentation bomb. Compressed gas cylinders shall be properly identified, handled,
  secured and stored. Laboratory personnel shall be aware of the proper procedures for
  handling the various compressed gases, the cylinders containing the compressed gases,
  regulators or valves used to control gas flow, and the piping used to confine gases during
  flow. Compressed gases commonly found in PMEL operations are air, methane, nitrogen and
  oxygen. Refer to TO 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders (Storage Type) Use, Handling and
  Maintenance, for gas cylinder precautions. Some common and potentially harmful gases
  used in PMEL operations are:
      34.2.4.1. Methane. Methane is one of several common and potentially harmful gases
      used in PMEL operations. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, highly flammable gas that
      may also be an asphyxiant if it displaces available oxygen. This can create an oxygen-
      deficient atmosphere, causing a worker to become dizzy, unconscious or to possibly die.
      34.2.4.2. Nitrogen (N2). A colorless, odorless and tasteless gas which liquefies at -195°C
      or        -320.44°F. By displacing available oxygen, it can create an oxygen-deficient
      atmosphere, causing a worker to become dizzy, unconscious or to possibly die. Due to its
      extremely low temperature, liquid nitrogen (LIN) can cause cryogenic burns to body
      tissues similar to frostbite. Refer to Chapter 43, Liquid Nitrogen (LIN) and Oxygen
      (LOX), for additional guidance and information on the safe use and handling of these
      cryogens.
      34.2.4.3. Oxygen (O2). Oxygen mixed with hydrocarbon contamination can cause fires
      and violent explosions. Because of its extremely low temperature, liquid oxygen (LOX)
      can cause cryogenic burns to body tissues similar to frostbite. The expansion ratio of
      LOX can also result in oxygen enrichment, producing fire and explosion hazards. Refer
      to Chapter 43 for additional hazards and guidance concerning LOX.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        669



   34.2.5. Compressed Oil Hazards. Some testing and calibrating operations require use of
   compressed oil at pressures of 30,000 psi. An oil leak above 4000 psi produces a high
   velocity stream of oil that may penetrate the skin and inject oil into body tissue. These high-
   pressure injections can cause severe localized circulatory system damage and loss of the
   injured extremity. Even low pressure, high volume systems pose a danger to personnel
   because of the amount of energy stored in the system. Warning: Injected oil may be life
   threatening and requires immediate medical treatment.
   34.2.6. Fire Hazards. Flammable and combustible liquids must be properly handled, stored
   and used. Refer to Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, for additional guidance.
   Also, consult the installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight for guidance on the
   selection and placement of fire extinguishers within the workplace.
34.3. Supervisor Responsibilities.
   34.3.1. Supervisors shall ensure:
       34.3.1.1. Personnel are trained on the location, selection and use of fire extinguishers,
       alarm systems, main power switches and evacuation procedures.
       34.3.1.2. CPR training is provided for workers required to perform work on energized
       high voltage electric circuits. Workers requiring CPR training shall receive refresher
       training before current CPR certification expires.
       34.3.1.3. Personnel performing maintenance on ionizing radiation equipment receive the
       proper ionizing and non-ionizing radiation safety training from the installation Radiation
       Safety Officer (RSO).
       34.3.1.4. Applicable technical data and MSDSs are consulted for specific safety
       guidance prior to equipment or chemical use.
       34.3.1.5. Fire extinguishers are properly mounted, readily accessible, in a serviceable
       condition and clearly visible.
       34.3.1.6. All exits are clearly identified, posted with signs, doors unlocked, easily
       accessible and clear paths of egress are provided. Consult the installation FES Flight for
       guidance on emergency lighting and exit requirements.
       34.3.1.7. Smoking is not permitted in the immediate area where flammable materials are
       being dispensed, stored or used.
       34.3.1.8. Soiled rags, paper towels, Kraft paper and other trash contaminated with oil or
       grease are placed in self-closing metal safety cans marked and color-coded to indicate
       contents. At the end of each shift, these containers shall be emptied or placed in an
       approved location outside the work center for pickup or disposal. Clean rags shall be
       clearly identified and kept in appropriate containers.
       34.3.1.9. All new chemicals, machines and processes are evaluated by the installation
       Ground Safety office, FES Flight, Environmental Management office and BE, as
       appropriate, prior to introduction into the work area. Once approved, supervisors shall
       ensure all personnel are trained prior to using the new chemicals, machines or processes.
 670                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       Training shall be documented as required for personnel and the supervisor shall keep a
       list of trained personnel on each chemical, machine or process.
34.4. Ventilation Systems. As a minimum, PMEL cleaning areas and laboratory work areas
must have appropriate ventilation. Ventilation shall continue for a sufficient time after job
completion to minimize residual vapors and provide adequate makeup air. Refer to ACGIH‘s
Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance,
AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Controls, AFMAN32-
1094, Criteria for Air Force Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory Design and
Construction, and TO 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program, for additional
information on workspace ventilation including information on permissible exposure levels, flow
rate requirements and design criteria. BE will determine what, if any, periodic testing of
ventilation systems is required.
34.5. Electrical Safety for PMEL Operations. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, for
additional guidance and information pertaining to the following:
   34.5.1. Laboratory Floors. The floor covering of calibration/repair areas shall be as specified
   in AFMAN 32-1094, Criteria for Air Force Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
   Design and Construction. Floor coverings that are damaged or do not meet specified
   requirements, shall be repaired or replaced. Insulated mats, NSN 7220-00-255-0765 (Black –
   24 inches wide), 7220-00-267-4630 (Blue – 36 inches wide), 7220-00-913-8751 (Green – 36
   inches wide), or suitable substitutes, are required when personnel are exposed to and working
   on energized high voltage circuits.
   34.5.2. Equipment Grounding. Unless the equipment is made with double insulated
   construction (which does not require grounding), most equipment can and shall be grounded
   using a three wire cord/plug/wall receptacle system. All wall receptacles shall be checked for
   ground continuity and for ground resistance of 10 ohms or less. Equipment requiring 220 volt
   or higher input voltage shall be grounded IAW NFPA 70, National Electric Code, or
   manufacturer's recommendations. Fixed electrical equipment shall be electrically bonded to a
   grounding connector. Special protection shall be provided to safeguard grounding wires from
   mechanical damage. Most electrical equipment is assembled with the outer case electrically
   isolated from internal components and the case shall be separately grounded. However, some
   equipment shall not operate with their cases grounded. Other equipment may require an
   ungrounded case for calibration. Local in-house procedures shall be developed and defined to
   cover these situations. Refer to TO 33-1-32, Input Power Wiring of Electrical/Electronic
   Support Equipment, the manufacturer‘s manual or 29 CFR 1910.303, General Requirements,
   1910.304, Wiring Design and Protection, 1910.305, Wiring Methods, Components, and
   Equipment for General Use, and 1910.308, Special Systems, for additional guidance and
   information.
   34.5.3. Workbenches. Metal topped workbenches shall be grounded to the facility ground.
   Workbenches with insulated, nonconductive tops are considered isolated from ground. All
   isolated workbenches shall have a grounding point provided and used when a grounded
   workbench is required, such as electrostatic discharge (ESD) sensitive operations. Refer to
   TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practices Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance and Test
   of Electrical Equipment, for ESD control procedures and workstation grounding.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         671



  34.5.4. Mobile Equipment Grounding. System grounding of mobile equipment shall be done
  by a separate insulated equipment grounding conductor.
  34.5.5. Buss Bars. Buss bars shall be clean, free of corrosion and connections periodically
  checked for tightness.
  34.5.6. Facility Ground. The facility ground shall be marked at its connection to the ground
  buss bar. If the connection is outdoors, it shall be coated with an anti-oxidant grease and
  marked IAW TO 31-10-24, Installation Practices, Communication Systems Ground, Bonding
  and Shielding, and any requirements established by the installation CE. The facility custodian
  shall visually inspect the electrical and grounding systems on a monthly basis for security
  and damage. After repairs, they shall be tested for continuity and polarity by a qualified
  electrician.
  34.5.7. Equipment Electrical Safety Devices.
     34.5.7.1. The doors to equipment racks and enclosures shall be closed at all times except
     to facilitate necessary and authorized repairs.
     34.5.7.2. Interlocks shall not be disabled during maintenance or adjustments unless
     prescribed by the manufacturer's manual or applicable TOs. During these periods, a sign
     stating ―Danger Interlocks Disabled‖ or other suitable commercially available substitute
     shall be placed on the equipment. Interlocks shall not be permanently disabled or
     bypassed. Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout),
     Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags, and 29 CFR 1910.306, Specific Purpose
     Equipment and Installations, for additional information on lockout and tagout procedures
     and requirements.
     34.5.7.3. Only authorized maintenance personnel shall perform repair work on
     equipment with defective interlocks. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.303, 1910.305 and 1910.306,
     for additional guidance regarding interlocks.
     34.5.7.4. When personnel are exposed to and working on energized high voltage circuits,
     i.e., 600 volts nominal or more, safety observers trained in CPR shall be present, unless
     the area supervisor determines the risk of the operation does not warrant a safety
     observer. Personnel shall follow guidance in UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, when an
     arc-fault hazard exists.
  34.5.8. Fuses and Circuit Breakers.
     34.5.8.1. Circuit breakers or fuses shall be installed in all electrical circuits to interrupt
     the current flow when it exceeds the current carrying capacity of the conductor and/or
     circuit. Circuit breakers and fuses shall not be bypassed. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.306 for
     additional guidance and information.
     34.5.8.2. Equipment fuses shall always be replaced by fuses of the size and type required
     by the TO or manufacturer's manual. Insulated fuse pullers shall be used to remove and
     replace cartridge fuses. Wire, foil, solder or other conductive materials shall not be used
     as substitutes for fuses. A lower amperage fuse of the same type may be used as a
     temporary measure until the proper fuse is available. An AFTO Form 350, Repairable
 672                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       Item Tag, must be attached stating the unit is under fused. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.306 for
       additional guidance and information.
   34.5.9. Grounding Sticks. A grounding stick shall be available for use at electronic
   workstations where residual voltages may be encountered during maintenance on
   deenergized equipment.
   34.5.10. Adjustments and Testing of Equipment.
       34.5.10.1. Electrical power shall be disconnected before technicians perform mechanical
       adjustments or repairs not involving alignment of mechanical/electrical components.
       Mechanical/electrical adjustments with power on shall only be accomplished when
       required by applicable TOs or manufacturer's manual. Technicians performing the
       adjustment/alignment shall use insulated tools to minimize the possibility of shock or
       damage to equipment components. Refer to Chapter 21 for proper lockout and tagout
       procedures.
       34.5.10.2. Technicians shall not use lead pencils, screwdrivers or other hand tools to
       make radio-frequency energy tests on any piece of electronic equipment.
   34.5.11. Power Distribution Panels/Controls. Main power switches shall be conspicuously
   marked. All personnel shall know the location and on-off operation of the main power
   distribution panels in their work areas. This knowledge is essential to de-energize electrical
   circuits in the event of a fire or accidental electrical contact. Except for 110 volt 60 hertz
   outlets, all electrical fuse, switch and circuit-breaker boxes shall be plainly marked with the
   voltage, phase and frequency of the circuit, and exactly what they control. Refer to 29 CFR
   1910.304 and 1910.306 for additional information.
   34.5.12. Electrical Safety Boards. Refer to paragraph 8.12, for required items included in an
   emergency equipment kit or board.
34.6. Radioactive Material Safety.
   34.6.1. Radioactive material shall be handled in a manner that results in as low as reasonably
   achievable (ALARA) exposures to personnel. The installation RSO and BE shall prescribe
   special procedures and precautionary measures as necessary. In overseas areas, follow
   disposal procedures as dictated by host nation agreements. Refer to AFI 40-201, Managing
   Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, for additional guidance.
   34.6.2. Personnel shall not handle or expose a radioactive source except as required in the
   performance of duty. Personnel involved in the actual use of radioisotopes shall receive
   formal training in their use and any precautionary measures, followed by continuing on-the-
   job training (OJT). No one shall be authorized to use, handle or access any area with an
   exposed or open ionizing radiation source without the worker and task being evaluated by the
   installation Radiation Safety Officer for possible entry into the US Air Force Dosimetry
   Program and placed on the dosimetry program, if deemed necessary. Refer to AFMAN 48-
   125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, for additional guidance and information.
   34.6.3. In restricted areas where radioactive material is used or stored, appropriate placards
   shall be conspicuously posted at each entrance and around the exterior perimeter of each area
   so at least one placard is clearly visible from any direction of approach. Obstacles, such as
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         673



   rope, barricades, etc., shall be used to discourage unauthorized entry into controlled areas.
   Individual containers of radioactive material within the area shall be appropriately identified.
   34.6.4. Pregnant military and civilian workers must report to Public Health (PH), who will,
   in coordination with BE and the Primary Care Manager, document health risks and
   preventive actions on the AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report. A copy of this
   report will be sent to the supervisor. Refer to AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation
   Dosimetry, for additional guidance.
   34.6.5. Smoking, eating or drinking in any area in which a radiation ingestion hazard may
   exist is strictly forbidden. Personnel working with radioactive materials shall wash their
   hands and face before eating, drinking or smoking and upon leaving a contaminated area.
   34.6.6. Regardless of radiation intensity, radioactive items used in PMEL operations shall
   not be carried in pockets or clothing of personnel.
   34.6.7. In addition to placards, positive measures, such as locked or guarded gates or doors,
   shall be established to prevent unauthorized entry into high radiation areas, as defined in AFI
   48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection. Entry of personnel into a high radiation area will
   energize a conspicuously visible or audible alarm signal designed to alert personnel present
   or cause the exposure to terminate.
   34.6.8. If containers of radioactive materials are broken or damaged , the area shall be
   cleared of all personnel not required in evaluation of the condition, recovery of the
   radioisotope or decontamination of the area or material. Once the area is cleared, it shall be
   secured. If radioactive material becomes airborne, doors and windows shall be closed and
   ventilation equipment turned off. The PMEL supervisor and installation RSO shall be
   notified immediately. A survey of the area shall be conducted to determine the extent of the
   radiological hazard. Personnel who have been, or may have been, exposed shall be monitored
   to determine the extent of medical action required. The RSO shall direct the decontamination
   or recovery operation, as necessary. Broken or damaged items shall be safely packaged and
   disposed of. Refer to AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, for
   additional disposal and handling instructions.
34.7. Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs). The following precautions shall be taken to minimize the
danger of breaking the glass envelope of CRTs.
   34.7.1. Prior to handling a tube, momentarily ground all pin connections, including the high
   voltage connection, to preclude electrical shock.
   34.7.2. Avoid scratching the glass of a tube since scratches weaken the tube and can cause
   the tube to implode.
   34.7.3. Remove tube from its carton ―face up‖ by grasping the larger (bell) end. Avoid
   handling large tubes by the neck since this narrow portion of the tube is particularly
   susceptible to breakage from bumping or striking other objects. This procedure also
   minimizes strain due to mechanical misalignment.
   34.7.4. Follow manufacturer‘s special handling instructions for tubes with an external
   insulation coating applied to areas of the bell end. Avoid touching the coated areas.
 674                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   34.7.5. Do not place a tube on its side on a flat surface. Instead, place the tube face down on
   a protective nonabrasive pad. If possible, do not remove the CRT from the carton until ready
   for use.
   34.7.6. Dispose of tubes using the same handling precautions as for new ones. Destroy CRT
   tubes prior to disposal by placing them face down in an empty CRT carton and breaking the
   center guide (keying) pin. Remove the tube‘s high vacuum by breaking off the tip of the
   glass vacuum seal. Seal the container and make an access hole so a crowbar or other heavy
   rod can be driven through to break the glass envelope. Contact the installation Environmental
   Management office for additional CRT disposal guidance.
   34.7.7. If broken glass from a tube cuts the skin, immediately wash cuts with soap to remove
   dirt, phosphorus or other contaminants, then obtain medical attention.
   34.7.8. Use dry chemical extinguishers to control fires involving equipment with CRTs. The
   thermal shock from cold CO2 may cause CRT implosion.
34.8. Equipment/Component Cleaning.
   34.8.1. Vacuuming using a nonmetallic wand and suction nozzle is the preferred method for
   cleaning electronic equipment. If compressed air is used, the air pressure shall be limited to
   the lowest possible level. Generally, 5 psi is adequate for equipment cleaning; however,
   pressures shall not exceed 30 psi. A diffuser nozzle shall be provided. Refer to TO 00-25-
   234, General Shop Practice Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance and Test of Electrical
   Equipment, and TO 31-1-75, Maintenance Engineering Standard – General Maintenance
   Practices, for additional information.
   34.8.2. Only approved and authorized solvents shall be used. Adequate ventilation shall be
   provided. BE‘s OEH risk assessment shall be consulted if the characteristics of a solvent are
   in question. Refer to paragraph 2.3 and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of
   Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance, for additional guidance and
   information on ventilation requirements. Appropriate PPE, as required in maintenance data
   and MSDS, shall be worn. PPE listed in Table 34.1 shall be worn when guidance is not
   provided in the maintenance data or MSDS. Additionally, refer to Chapter 14, Personal
   Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional PPE requirements when working around
   solvents.
   34.8.3. Ultrasonic Cleaning. When using ultrasound-cleaning equipment, workers shall
   always follow the manufacturer‘s instructions for parts and equipment cleaning. TO 00-25-
   234 and Mil Spec C-24196, Cleaning System Ultrasonic Console, provide guidance on
   equipment cleaning and proper use of ultrasonic-cleaning equipment.
   34.8.4. Cleaning Oxygen Equipment. Consult TO 15X-1-102, General Care and Cleaning of
   Oxygen Gauges and Oxygen Device Related Test Equipment, and TO 37C11-1-1, Cleaning
   of Pressure Gauges Used on Liquid Oxygen Systems, when cleaning oxygen equipment.
   Positive controls shall be used to ensure that oxygen equipment handled by PMEL is not
   contaminated by any foreign material.
34.9. Tools and Equipment.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         675



   34.9.1. Insulated tools shall be used when performing work on energized equipment. Placing
   rubber grips or tape on un-insulated tools does not make them acceptable insulated tools.
   Wooden handle tools shall not be used on energized equipment.
   34.9.2. Only wood or fiberglass ladders are acceptable for work on or near electrical
   equipment. Refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings,
   Fixed Industrials Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, for additional guidance on
   portable ladders.
   34.9.3. Ground wrist straps shall be disconnected when personnel are exposed to or working
   on energized electrical circuits.
   34.9.4. Industrial equipment such as floor hoists, cranes, drill presses, grinders and polishers
   may pose hazards to technicians. Consult applicable maintenance, commercial data, Chapter
   18, Machinery, and TO 34-1-3, Inspection and Maintenance of Machinery and Shop
   Equipment, for proper operation and maintenance of such equipment.
   34.9.5. Radar and Microwave Equipment. Radar and microwave equipment are sources of
   radio frequency radiation (RFR). Personnel shall be instructed on RFR hazards prior to
   working on this equipment and shall not be exposed to RFR levels above permissible
   exposure limits. Caution shall be observed with any open waveguide connected to an
   energized source of microwave radiation, as high power densities can be found at the
   waveguide opening. An RFR warning sign shall be posted in areas where access to power
   density levels exceed the permissible exposure limit. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radio
   Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, for additional information.
   34.9.6. Hydraulic and Pneumatic Pressure Systems. TO 00-25-223, Integrated Pressure
   Systems and Components (Portable and Installed), explains safe operating procedures for
   this equipment and shall be followed when using this equipment.
   34.9.7. Calibration/Repair of Fluid Analysis Equipment. Exposure to acids, electric current
   and petroleum distillates may occur when performing oil analysis operations and
   maintenance. Workers shall wear appropriate PPE when using this equipment and associated
   chemicals.
   34.9.8. Calibration/Repair of Radiation Measuring Equipment. Personnel shall follow
   AFOSH Standard 48-9, AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, and
   AFI 40-201, when calibrating or repairing radiation test, measuring and diagnostic equipment
   (TMDE). Problems not covered in this standard or referenced AFOSH standards, manuals
   and TOs shall be referred to the installation RSO and BE.

Table 34.1. Frequently Performed PMEL Operations Where PPE is Required.
            Frequently Performed PMEL Operations Where PPE is Required
                  Operation                                Type PPE
Battery Servicing/Handling (Wet Cell)     Side and frontal eye protection
                                          Gloves, rubber
                                          Apron, rubber
Cathode Ray Tube Installation or Removal  Face shield/Safety glasses
                                          Gloves
 676                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


            Frequently Performed PMEL Operations Where PPE is Required
                  Operation                                      Type PPE
Heavy Lifting                                   Safety-toe shoes
Compressed Air Cleaning                         Side and frontal eye protection
Laser Operations                                Laser Eye Protection (LEP)
Use of Hydrazine Related Equipment              Respirators (when engineering controls and
                                                work practices are not sufficient to reduce
                                                exposures to below the permissible
                                                exposure limit)
                                                Impervious gloves
Liquid Nitrogen Handling                        Face shield
                                                Apron, rubber
                                                Gloves, insulated
                                                Long sleeve garment
Oil Analysis Instrument Testing                 Light Shields and Filters
Mercury Servicing/Clean-up                      Rubber gloves
                                                Respirator approved for use with mercury
                                                Goggles
Working in Hazardous Noise Area (Noise          Approved hearing protection
Level 85 Decibels (dB) or Greater
Soldering                                       Respirator (when BE‘s OEH risk
                                                assessment requires)
                                                Eye protection (side and frontal)
                                                Face shield or safety goggles
Liquid Fluorocarbon (Freon)                     Impervious gloves
                                                Side and frontal eye protection
Note: PPE listed below are the minimum requirements. Functional managers, ground safety
office, BE and Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), shall be consulted to
determine specific PPE requirements for all PMEL Operations.
34.10. Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) Checklist. This is not an all
inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items
contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist.
Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to
this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or
situations.
   34.10.1. Is the appropriate PPE used by workers and others in the work area during PMEL
   operations? Reference 34.1.3
   34.10.2. Are applicable Material Safety Data Sheets available to workers prior to performing
   a PMEL operation? Reference 34.1.3
   34.10.3. Is the appropriate LEP worn by workers when working with laser equipment?
   Reference 34.1.3.2
   34.10.4. Do workers remove rings, watches or other conductive objects when working on,
   with or near energized electrical circuits? Reference 34.2.1.4
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        677



  34.10.5. Are all items containing mercury properly maintained and safely located to prevent
  escape of mercury liquid or vapor? Reference 34.2.3.2.1
  34.10.6. Are there approved local procedures for the proper disposal of contaminated
  mercury and for handling mercury spills? Reference 34.2.3.2.1
  34.10.7. Is adequate ventilation provided for soldering operations to prevent inhalation of
  gases, fumes, and vapors? Reference 34.2.3.3
  34.10.8. Are stored gas cylinders properly identified, handled, secured and stored?
  Reference 34.2.4
  34.10.9. Are flammable and combustible liquids properly handled, stored and used?
  Reference 34.2.6
  34.10.10. Have workers received ionizing and non-ionizing radiation safety training from
  the Radiation Safety Officer? Reference 34.3.1.3
  34.10.11. Are fire extinguishers readily accessible, in serviceable condition, and clearly
  visible? Reference 34.3.1.5
  34.10.12. Are all exits clearly identified, posted with signs, kept unlocked, easily accessible,
  and clear paths of egress provided? Reference 34.3.1.6
  34.10.13. Have all workers been adequately trained in the use of all new chemicals,
  machines or processes? Reference 34.3.1.9
  34.10.14. Do only authorized maintenance workers perform repair work on equipment with
  defective interlocks? Reference 34.5.7.3
  34.10.15. Is a safety observer present when personnel are exposed to or working on
  energized high voltage circuits? Reference 34.5.7.4
  34.10.16. Do all personnel know the location and on-off operation of the main electrical
  power distribution panels in their work area? Reference 34.5.11
  34.10.17. Do all persons handling radioactive material, including anyone who contacts a
  radioactive device, wash their hands and face before eating, drinking or smoking and upon
  leaving contaminated work area? Reference 34.6.5
  34.10.18. Are positive measures established to prevent unauthorized entry into high
  radiation areas? Reference 34.6.7
  34.10.19. Are proper precautions taken to minimize the danger of CRT handling and
  disposal hazards? Reference 34.7
  34.10.20. Are only approved and authorized solvents used for cleaning? Reference 34.8.2
  34.10.21. Are insulated tools available for use on energized equipment? Reference 34.9.1
  34.10.22. Do personnel disconnect ground wrist straps when they are exposed to or working
  on energized equipment? Reference 34.9.3
 678                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 35

                         MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT

35.1. General Information.
   35.1.1. Documentation. This chapter specifies use of AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical
   Data, AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record, and general purpose forms for
   documenting maintenance and inspection actions. With the growing use of automated
   systems for tracking these activities, requiring specific paper forms may impede use of more
   efficient automated processes. Therefore, use of MAJCOM or locally devised paper or
   automated system for documenting inspections, maintenance and other activities is
   acceptable in place of specified AFTO Forms 95 and 244 and general purpose forms.
   Electronic signatures are acceptable. While this standard eliminates the requirement for paper
   AFTO Forms 95 and 244 and general purpose forms, MAJCOMs, NAFs, local procedures,
   Technical Orders and other Air Force guidance may continue to require use of these forms.
   Please check the prescribing directive(s) before discontinuing use of any forms. Maintenance
   units shall follow documentation guidance in AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
   Maintenance Management, and 00-20 series TOs.
   35.1.2. Training Currency for Deployment. Supervisors shall ensure personnel scheduled for
   deployment are current/trained in operations on this equipment prior to deploying.
   Additionally, supervisors at deployed locations shall verify personnel are current in
   operations before they operate the equipment, and provide additional training as needed for
   personnel to safely operate any new type equipment. A copy of the training records shall
   accompany the members when they deploy.
   35.1.3. Materials Handling Equipment (MHE) Not in Regular Service.
       35.1.3.1. Cranes, hoists and derricks idle for at least one month, but less than six (6)
       months, shall be inspected prior to placing in service.
       35.1.3.2. Cranes idle for a period of six (6) months or more shall be inspected IAW
       paragraphs 35.8.2.5.1, 35.8.2.5.2 and 35.11.2.2.2 prior to placing in service. Standby
       cranes shall be inspected at least semiannually IAW paragraphs 35.9.2.4.2, 35.9.2.4.3 and
       35.11. The need for more frequent inspections of cranes exposed to an adverse
       environment shall be determined by the user.
       35.1.3.3. Any hoist idle for six (6) months or more shall be given a complete inspection
       IAW paragraph 35.6.3.5.2 prior to placing in service.
       35.1.3.4. A derrick idle for over six (6) months shall be given a complete inspection
       IAW requirements of paragraph 35.6.3.5.2 before placing in service. Standby derricks
       shall be inspected at least semiannually IAW paragraph 35.6.3.5.2. Those exposed to
       adverse environments shall be inspected more frequently.
   35.1.4. Dimensions. While dimensions mentioned in this document refer to inch
   measurements, equipment built with metric measurements shall be maintained and repaired
   with metric dimensioned parts, unless inch dimensioned parts are permitted by applicable
   TO, item manager or manufacturer. If the manufacturer is no longer in business or technical
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       679



  guidance is not available, parts selection shall be based on the recommendation of a licensed
  professional engineer.
  35.1.5. Inspections. MHE (specifically hoists, slings, cranes, derricks) and associated
  components will be inspected for damage or wear at intervals specified (frequent and/or
  periodic), including observations during operation. Deficiencies will be carefully examined
  and a determination made by the operator and the shop or facility supervisor as to whether
  they constitute a safety hazard.
     35.1.5.1. Frequent. A visual/prior to use inspection will be performed by the operator or
     designated person daily or prior to use. A daily inspection is only required if specified by
     a TO, manufacturer‘s instructions or other governing directive. Otherwise, a prior to use
     inspection will be required prior to the first use of the day for any MHE, unless
     MAJCOM or installation has more stringent directives. The inspection shall be
     documented on an AFTO Form 244 or MAJCOM or locally devised paper or automated
     systems IAW paragraph 35.1.1, annotating the date, time, initials of the person
     performing the inspection and any discrepancies noted during the inspection. The record
     of inspection shall be maintained by the using agency until the next periodic inspection
     has been performed.
     35.1.5.2. Periodic. A complete inspection will be performed by a qualified person at
     intervals between 1 and 12 months. The required intervals of periodic inspections will be
     based on the type of use experienced by the equipment: Normal service – annually; heavy
     service – semiannual; severe service – quarterly (see Attachment 1, Terms-Service).
     Follow periodic inspection schedules outlined in applicable technical orders and/or
     manufacturer‘s instructions where intervals between 1 and 12 months are established.
     The inspection will be documented on AFTO Form 95, AFTO Form 244 or MAJCOM or
     locally devised paper or automated systems IAW paragraph 35.1.1 and maintained on file
     36 months after the periodic inspection is complete, unless otherwise noted. During the
     periodic inspection, some systems may require the removal of covers or parts to gain
     access. Appropriate lockout/tagout procedures will be used where removal of covers or
     parts expose individuals to an uncontrolled energy source (e.g., an electrical or
     mechanical hazard) and result in accidental start-up of equipment. Refer to Chapter 21,
     Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), for additional guidance. Disassembly
     of the MHE or major components, not designed to be removed or opened, is not required
     for the sole purpose of the inspection. If the individual performing the periodic inspection
     finds evidence of damage or wear that constitutes a potential hazard, further inspection to
     determine cause or to repair the system may be required and total disassembly or removal
     of major components may be necessary. Consult manufacturer‘s instructions, where
     available, for additional guidance. Exception: For nuclear-certified MHE, perform the
     periodic inspection semiannually.
     35.1.5.3. Mandatory Monthly Inspections. Wire ropes, chains and hooks shall be
     thoroughly inspected monthly (every 30 days). Inspections for each item shall be
     documented (separate documentation) on the AFTO Form 95 or MAJCOM or locally
     devised paper or automated system IAW paragraph 35.1.1 and maintained on file for one
     year. Documentation will include date and time of the monthly inspection, signature of
 680                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       the inspector, an identifier for the equipment inspected and condition of the equipment.
       Inspection criteria will be IAW applicable paragraphs from this chapter.
       35.1.5.4. Frequency. Inspections identified as monthly and annual inspections will be
       considered as such and not a 30 or 365 day inspection. The next inspection must occur by
       the last day of the perspective month. For example, a monthly inspection conducted on 4
       February, the next inspection must be completed by 31 March. An annual inspection
       conducted on 4 February 2009, the next inspection must be completed by 31 March 2010.
       35.1.5.5. New or Modified MHE. Prior to initial use, all newly procured or modified
       (altered or repaired) MHE shall be inspected to ensure compliance with the provisions of
       this instruction.
       35.1.5.6. Hook, Sling and Hook Certification. Hook, sling and hook certification
       documents received from the manufacturer when hoists, slings or hooks are purchased or
       repaired shall be maintained for the life of the equipment (or until the hooks are
       replaced). For repaired items, the previous certification shall be replaced with the new
       documentation.
   35.1.6. For cranes and derricks used in construction, consult with installation CE and refer to
   1926.1400, Cranes and Derricks in Construction.
35.2. Special Requirements.
   35.2.1. Material Handling Equipment Parked Inside Warehouses. The decision to park
   gasoline-or diesel-powered material handling equipment in general purpose warehouses is
   the responsibility of the installation commander and requires approval in writing by the
   installation commander with recommendations by the installation Fire Emergency Services
   (FES) Flight and Ground Safety office. The following safety considerations/operating rules
   shall be considered prior to parking:
       35.2.1.1. The warehouse shall be equipped with an automatic fire suppression system or
       heat sensor devices.
       35.2.1.2. The equipment shall be parked so it does not block fire aisles, fire-fighting
       equipment, fire alarm boxes, stairways, elevators or fire exits.
       35.2.1.3. An oil absorbent compound shall be placed under any equipment leaking oil or
       grease. A metal pan may be used in conjunction with the compound. Leaking equipment
       shall be repaired.
       35.2.1.4. The warehouse supervisor shall conduct daily inspections to ensure powered
       materials handling equipment is parked in designated locations, equipment does not
       contain excessive grease and lint, and gasoline lines, tanks, oil seals and so forth are not
       leaking.
       35.2.1.5. A minimum of 10-foot clearance shall be maintained between parked
       equipment and combustible materials.
       35.2.1.6. Gasoline or diesel powered equipment used in multistory buildings shall be
       parked on the ground floor when not in use. Refer to paragraph 35.3.5.2 for additional
       guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       681



  35.2.2. Battery Charging and Servicing Operations. Refer to Chapter 31, Batteries –
  Maintenance, Handling and Storage Requirements, and NFPA 505, Fire Safety Standard for
  Powered Industrial Trucks Including Type Designations, Areas of Use, Conversions,
  Maintenance, and Operations, for charging installation design and servicing batteries
  requirements.
  35.2.3. Liquid Petroleum (LP) Gas Powered Materials Handling and Lifting Equipment.
     35.2.3.1. Operators shall not park LP-gas industrial and lift trucks near sources of heat,
     open flames or similar sources of ignition, or near inadequately ventilated pits.
     35.2.3.2. Trucks equipped with a permanently mounted LP-gas container shall be
     refueled outdoors.
     35.2.3.3. Exchange of removable fuel containers shall be done outdoors. The exchange
     may be done indoors if the exchange is made in a well ventilated area away from ignition
     sources and one of the following methods is used to minimize release of fuel from the
     fuel lines:
         35.2.3.3.1. Use an approved quick-closing coupling (a type closing in both directions
         when uncoupled) in the fuel line.
         35.2.3.3.2. Close the shutoff valve at the fuel container and allow the engine to run
         until the fuel in the line is exhausted. Note: Ensure all indoor container change-out
         operations are approved by the installation FES Flight.
     35.2.3.4. Containers shall be kept secured at all times.
  35.2.4. Petroleum Equipment Servicing.
     35.2.4.1. Units with internal combustion engines shall not be refueled inside warehouses
     or while the engine is running. Refueling shall be accomplished in outside areas approved
     by the installation FES Flight.
     35.2.4.2. When fuel is spilled during servicing, operations shall be stopped and
     equipment cleaned up according to local procedures prior to restarting fuel servicing
     operation. Notify the FES Flight if a significant spill occurs.
  35.2.5. Storage Racks/Shelving.
     35.2.5.1. The load size and rating of storage racks/shelving shall be determined by the
     manufacturer‘s specifications or by a qualified person if manufacturer‘s specifications do
     not specify the load size and rating for the storage racks/shelving.
     35.2.5.2. The load size and rating shall be posted on the storage rack/shelving unit.
     35.2.5.3. Storage racks/shelving shall be properly aligned, plumb, secured and level as
     per manufacturer‘s installation instructions/specifications.
     35.2.5.4. Keep aisles clear. Insufficient clearance may result in rack/shelving damage
     from handling equipment operations.
     35.2.5.5. Inspections of storage racks/shelving units shall follow manufacturer‘s
     instructions and/or recommendations and include:
 682                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          35.2.5.5.1. Frequency of inspection and preventative maintenance.
          35.2.5.5.2. Inspection of all recommended storage racks/shelving components.
          35.2.5.5.3. Inspections shall be documented on AFTO Form 95, or MAJCOM or
          locally devised automated systems. Refer to paragraph 35.1.1 for additional guidance.
       35.2.5.6. Defective storage racks/shelving shall be tagged with AF Form 979, Danger, or
       AF Form 981, Out of Order.
       35.2.5.7. Workers shall report any damage to racks at time of incident, specifically
       damage due to mechanical equipment, and shall be documented on AFTO Form 95, or
       MAJCOM or locally devised automated systems. Refer to paragraph 35.1.1 for additional
       guidance.
       35.2.5.8. Repair defective storage racks in a timely manner. Document repairs on
       MAJCOM or locally devised automated systems.
35.3. Powered Industrial Trucks.
   35.3.1. Hazards. Injury or death may occur when powered industrial trucks are improperly
   operated, inadvertently driven off loading docks, tipping, striking personnel, etc. Most
   incidents also involve property damage, including damage to overhead sprinklers, racking,
   pipes, walls and machinery. Most injuries and property damage are caused by unsafe
   operating procedures, lack of safety-rule enforcement, insufficient or inadequate training and
   operator error. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.178, Powered Industrial Truck, for additional
   guidance. Common operator errors associated with powered industrial trucks include:
       35.3.1.1. Jerky starts and stops.
       35.3.1.2. Failure to give proper signals when turning.
       35.3.1.3. Traveling too fast and turning too sharply.
       35.3.1.4. Failure to sound horn at intersections or when entering or exiting a building.
       35.3.1.5. Turning too wide on corners.
       35.3.1.6. Cutting corners too sharply.
       35.3.1.7. Positioning forklift truck tines too high when traveling, either empty or loaded.
       Tines shall be no higher than six (6) inches above the surface, as measured from bottom
       most part of load to surface.
       35.3.1.8. Lowering loads too fast.
       35.3.1.9. Failure to ensure pallet load is properly balanced and stacked.
       35.3.1.10. Failure to ensure forks (tines) are fully under the load before lifting.
       35.3.1.11. Striking the pallet or floor with the tines.
       35.3.1.12. Driving across bridge plates too fast, and failure to observe load carrying
       capacity on bridge plates.
       35.3.1.13. Failure to release parking brake before traveling.
       35.3.1.14. Driving forward when vision is restricted by the load.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      683



     35.3.1.15. Failure to secure load to mast or tie down points when transporting over a
     distance.
     35.3.1.16. Traveling in reverse without a spotter, too quickly and failure to see
     obstructions.
     35.3.1.17. Raising/lowering the load while still in motion.
  35.3.2. General Requirements.
     35.3.2.1. Acquisition. Commercially procured materials handling and lifting equipment
     or parts shall conform to the specifications in 29 CFRs 1910.176, Handling Materials--
     General, 1910.177, Servicing Multi-Piece and Single Piece Rim Wheels, and 1910.178,
     Powered Industrial Truck, ANSI B56.1, Safety Standard for Low Lift and High Lift
     Trucks, and NFPA 505, Powered Industrial Trucks Including Type Designations, Areas
     of Use, Conversions, Maintenance, and Operations.
     35.3.2.2. Local modifications of centrally procured materials handling equipment shall
     be done only with approval of equipment item managers and requirements referenced in
     paragraph 35.3.4.2. Local purchase acquisition requests shall be coordinated with the
     installation Ground Safety office. Refer to Figure 35.1 through Figure 35.17 for
     examples of materials handling and lifting equipment.
  35.3.3. Training.
     35.3.3.1. Each activity requiring training on powered materials handling and lifting
     equipment shall designate qualified personnel as instructors to train and supervise the
     operator trainee. The names and grades of instructor candidates shall be provided to the
     vehicle operations officer who shall thoroughly screen each for background and
     experience in the type of equipment for which instruction shall be given. A list of
     approved instructors shall be retained on file by the using agency and the vehicle
     operations section.
     35.3.3.2. Lesson plans for each vehicle shall be accomplished by the unit IAW AFI 24-
     301, Vehicle Operations. Lesson plans (course content) shall include formal instruction,
     hands-on demonstrations by the instructor with practical exercises performed by the
     trainee and an evaluation of the trainee‘s performance to confirm their knowledge of
     equipment operations and service instructions. Refer to paragraph 35.3.3.5 for additional
     guidance on documenting training.
     35.3.3.3. The trainee shall furnish the Operator Records and Licensing (OR&L) staff
     with written certification on the AF Form 171, Request for Driver’s Training and
     Addition to U. S. Government Driver’s License.
     35.3.3.4. Materials handling and lifting equipment training will include:
         35.3.3.4.1. Equipment design, to include restrictions, limitations and hazards relative
         to the environment where used, e.g., steering, maneuvering and visibility.
         35.3.3.4.2. Operating and maintenance instructions, including manufacturer‘s
         instructions and those contained in this standard.
         35.3.3.4.3. Safe loading and unloading requirements.
684                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.3.3.4.4. Operating techniques inside and outside of warehouses.
         35.3.3.4.5. Flight line rules and regulations, when applicable.
         35.3.3.4.6. Fire extinguisher training (initial and annual). Refer to Chapter 6, Fire
         Protection and Prevention, for additional guidance.
         35.3.3.4.7. Use of attachments such as extended forks or tines or personnel lift
         pallets.
         35.3.3.4.8. Clearances, heights and limitations.
         35.3.3.4.9. Safety clothing and equipment. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective
         Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
         35.3.3.4.10. Fire protection, fuel spills, maintenance of equipment, smoking, etc.
         Refer to Chapter 6 for additional guidance.
         35.3.3.4.11. Operating restrictions in potentially hazardous storage areas, which
         include flammable, toxic, lumber, coal, etc. Refer to Chapter 22, Flammable and
         Combustible Liquids, for additional guidance.
         35.3.3.4.12. Load composition and stability.
         35.3.3.4.13. Damage that may be caused by acid or caustic material.
         35.3.3.4.14. Workplace related topics such as surface condition; local policies on
         stacking, unstacking, and load manipulation; pedestrian traffic; and narrow aisles.
         35.3.3.4.15. Applicable information contained in paragraphs 35.2 and 35.3.2.1 of this
         standard.
      35.3.3.5. Document initial and, as required, refresher training in appropriate records, e.g.,
      AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee
      Brief, AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, AF IMT 55,
      Employee Safety and Health Record, or MAJCOM directed record system.
      35.3.3.6. In addition to initial training and certification, a qualified instructor shall
      evaluate each operator at least once every three (3) years and provide refresher training in
      relevant topics any time there is reason to believe there is a need. The evaluation shall
      include, but not be limited to, changes in types of equipment in use, change in operating
      environment; direct observation of performance; reportable mishaps, reports of near-
      misses; complaints regarding an operator‘s bad driving habits; physical fitness; and other
      indications that an operator is not capable of safely performing assigned duties. A
      written/automated record of each operator‘s evaluation shall be kept on file by the
      instructor for review.
  35.3.4. Safeguarding Requirements.
      35.3.4.1. Materials lifting equipment powered by an internal combustion engine shall
      have an adequate fire extinguisher available. Size, type and location shall be determined
      by the installation FES Flight and owning organization, and shall be based on the risk
      assessment for the operation being conducted. Additional requirements may be mandated
      by AFIs, TOs or other directives for specific environments and operations.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          685



     35.3.4.2. The maximum load capacity shall be posted on each piece of lifting equipment,
     in view of the operator. Modifications and additions which affect capacity and safe
     operation require manufacturer‘s written approval. If modifications and/or additions are
     completed, capacity, operation and maintenance instruction plates, tags or decals shall be
     changed accordingly. Refer to paragraph 35.3.2.1 for additional guidance.
     35.3.4.3. All high-lift rider trucks shall be equipped and operated with overhead guards
     to protect the operator from falling objects. Overhead guards shall not be covered with
     material that could obstruct the operator‘s vision.
     35.3.4.4. Where steering must be accomplished with one hand and a steering hand wheel
     is used, steering knobs or equivalent may be used, provided they do not protrude beyond
     the outside periphery of the hand wheel.
     35.3.4.5. Load backrest extensions shall be used when necessary to minimize the
     possibility of the load falling rearward.
     35.3.4.6. When a forklift is used to elevate personnel, an approved safety pallet, as
     illustrated in Figure 35.1, shall be used. It shall be equipped with the features identified
     in the figure.
     35.3.4.7. The operator shall remain at the controls at all times when personnel are on the
     safety pallet, but shall not move the forklift.
     35.3.4.8. Instructions prohibiting movement of the forklift with personnel on the safety
     pallet shall be posted on the pallet in plain sight, visible to the operator and all personnel.
  35.3.5. Safe Operations.
     35.3.5.1. Whenever possible, electric or battery powered equipment shall be used
     indoors. Internal combustion engines shall not be operated inside buildings unless an
     exhaust system or other ventilation approved by BE is installed and used. Administrative
     areas, e.g., offices, must be protected from exhaust buildup either by distance or positive
     air flow pressure in relation to the warehouse activities. When internal combustion engine
     equipment is used inside warehouses, ventilation requirements shall be determined by BE
     personnel to preclude exposure of workers to carbon monoxide gas. Refer to AFMAN
     91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, for operating in explosives and weapons areas.
     35.3.5.2. Internal combustion engine equipment shall not be warmed up inside a building
     and shall be turned off when not in use.
     35.3.5.3. Liquid Petroleum (LP) gas fuel industrial trucks may be used in buildings or
     structures approved by the installation FES Flight, Ground Safety office and BE. If used
     inside buildings or structures, there shall be no more than two 10-gallon fuel containers
     on the truck, and the truck shall not be left unattended with the engine running. Refer to
     paragraph 35.3.5.1 for additional guidance.
     35.3.5.4. Operation of high and low lift trucks, which include platform, pallet trucks,
     rider trucks, reach trucks, side loader trucks, picker trucks, straddle lift trucks, etc.
         35.3.5.4.1. Personnel shall not ride on powered lift equipment unless a passenger seat
         is part of the manufacture design.
686                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.3.5.4.2. The operator shall not extend any portion of body between the uprights of
         the mast or outside the running lines of the equipment.
         35.3.5.4.3. When leaving powered lifts unattended, operators shall fully lower the
         forks, neutralize controls, shut power off and set brakes. They shall chock the wheels
         if the vehicle is parked on an incline. At the close of business each day, LP powered
         and gasoline operated MHE shall be parked on the warehouse parking ramp, drip
         pans in place.
         35.3.5.4.4. Operators shall use caution when traveling on docks or loading platforms
         and remain clear of the edge.
         35.3.5.4.5. Operators shall not use forklifts to push or pull objects, such as freight
         cars, or to open and close freight and warehouse doors. Exception: When side
         loading vans are not available, munitions containers with permanently installed skids
         may be pushed or pulled into open-ended vans with the use of a spotter. Ensure safety
         precautions, such as keeping personnel clear of potentially hazardous areas, have
         been considered and included in the procedure.
         35.3.5.4.6. Operators shall set brakes and dock locks or put wheel chocks in place to
         prevent any movement of trucks, trailers or railroad cars while loading or unloading.
         Fixed jacks shall be used to support semi-trailers during loading or unloading when
         the trailer is not coupled to the tractor. The operator shall check the flooring of trucks,
         trailers and railroad cars for breaks and weakness before driving onto them. Loads
         shall not be transferred across the tailgate when it is supported solely by its chain. The
         tailgate must be supported by the mating surface across its entire width or a bridge
         plate shall be used. Refer to paragraph 35.3.5.5.13 for additional requirements.
         35.3.5.4.7. Operators shall ensure sufficient head room or clearance under overhead
         installations, lights, pipes, sprinkler systems, etc.
         35.3.5.4.8. Personnel shall not stand or pass under the elevated portion of a lift when
         loaded or empty.
      35.3.5.5. When traveling, operators shall:
         35.3.5.5.1. Observe all established driving procedures and shall not exceed five (5)
         miles per hour inside warehouses. Under normal traffic conditions, operators shall
         keep to the right and maintain a safe distance (approximately three truck lengths)
         from the truck ahead. Operators shall keep trucks under control at all times, especially
         during turns and while traveling over slippery or wet floors and rough surfaces.
         35.3.5.5.2. Not pass other vehicles or pedestrians at intersections, blind corners or at
         other dangerous locations.
         35.3.5.5.3. Slow down and sound the horn at cross aisles, warehouse entrances and
         exits or at other dangerous locations where vision is obstructed. Operators shall be
         prepared to stop and will not proceed until the way is clear.
         35.3.5.5.4. Travel with the load trailing when loads obstruct the forward view.
         35.3.5.5.5. Cross railroad tracks diagonally whenever possible to avoid jarring of the
         load.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        687



        35.3.5.5.6. Not park lifts closer than eight (8) feet from the center of railroad tracks.
        35.3.5.5.7. Look in the direction of travel and keep a clear view.
        35.3.5.5.8. Drive a loaded lift with the load upgrade when traveling up or down
        ramps or grades. A spotter shall be used if the operator‘s vision is obscured by the
        load. Unloaded trucks shall be operated on all grades with the forks downgrade.
        Caution shall be used on all grades. The load on the forks shall be tilted back as far as
        necessary to clear the road surface.
        35.3.5.5.9. Operate the lift at a speed that will permit it to stop in a safe manner.
        Horseplay or stunt driving shall not be permitted.
        35.3.5.5.10. Not travel with lift forks elevated more than six (6) inches above the
        ground or surface or as necessary to clear surface projections.
        35.3.5.5.11. Tilt the mast back when transporting loads when operating a mast with
        tilt capability.
        35.3.5.5.12. Make smooth starts, turns and stops to prevent the load from shifting or
        the truck from overturning.
        35.3.5.5.13. Ensure dock boards or bridge plates:
            35.3.5.5.13.1. Are anchored or equipped with stops at both ends near the edges of
            the platform of the car or truck to prevent them from sliding.
            35.3.5.5.13.2. Are strong enough to carry the load.
            35.3.5.5.13.3. Have handholds or other effective means to permit safe handling.
            35.3.5.5.13.4. Are of proper width and length.
            35.3.5.5.13.5. Contain a nonskid surface.
        35.3.5.5.14. Approach elevators slowly and enter squarely after the elevator car is
        properly level. Once on the elevator, the operator will neutralize the controls, shut off
        the power and set the brakes.
        35.3.5.5.15. Ensure motorized hand trucks enter elevators or other confined areas
        with the load end first.
     35.3.5.6. When loading, the operator shall:
        35.3.5.6.1. Ensure only stable or safely arranged loads are transported.
        35.3.5.6.2. Not exceed the rated capacity of the lift.
        35.3.5.6.3. Take extra care in securing, manipulating, positioning and transporting
        the load when attachments are used.
        35.3.5.6.4. Use extreme care when tilting loads forward or backward, particularly
        when high tiering. The operator shall not tilt equipment forward with a fork‘s
        engaging means elevated, except to pick up a load. An elevated load shall not be
        tilted forward except when the load is in a deposit position over a rack or stack. When
        stacking or tiering, operators shall only use enough backward tilt to stabilize the load.
688                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.3.5.6.5. Not use more than the manufacturer‘s specified counterweight system to
         increase lifting capacity.
         35.3.5.6.6. Not align, bump or push stacks with a lift.
      35.3.5.7. When operating warehouse tractor (tug)-trailer trains, operators shall:
         35.3.5.7.1. Obey all traffic regulations and shall not exceed 10 miles per hour when
         towing trailers. When traveling on base roads, trains shall keep to the extreme right
         and, if operated at night or in periods of low visibility, lights shall be used. Towing of
         aircraft engines shall be IAW Chapter 4, Manual Material Handling and Lifting
         Techniques, and TO 00-85-20, Engine Shipping Instructions.
         35.3.5.7.2. Not permit passengers to ride on tractors unless adequate seats are
         installed.
         35.3.5.7.3. Tow no more than four (4) loaded or empty trailers with a tractor or tug.
         Exception: Six (6) A/M326 palletized cargo trailers may be towed behind one
         tractor.
         35.3.5.7.4. Ensure the train is arranged with the most heavily loaded trailer next to
         the towing vehicle, the next heaviest second in line, and so on to avoid jackknifing
         trailer trains.
         35.3.5.7.5. Make sure couplings are secure before moving a trailer or train. Pintle
         assemblies and towing connections shall be secured with a pintle hook and safety pin
         that will positively lock towing connections.
         35.3.5.7.6. Ensure loads placed on the trailer directly behind the towing tractor are
         not stacked so high that they prevent or obstruct the operator‘s view of the remaining
         trailers.
         35.3.5.7.7. Reduce speeds on uneven roadways to reduce jarring of material.
      35.3.5.8. When operating a straddle-lift truck, operators shall:
         35.3.5.8.1. Ensure all loads placed on trucks are blocked sufficiently to prevent any
         part of the cargo coming in contact with the surface over which the cargo is
         transported.
         35.3.5.8.2. Use extreme caution any time the vehicle is operated in congested areas.
         35.3.5.8.3. Carry hoist shoes in the up position to avoid striking any obstruction
         when the truck is not loaded.
         35.3.5.8.4. Operate vehicles on solid ground at all times.
         35.3.5.8.5. Avoid sudden stops, especially when the truck is loaded.
         35.3.5.8.6. Ensure all guards and safety devices are in proper repair at all times.
         35.3.5.8.7. Ensure straddle trucks, operated on base roads at night or in periods of
         low visibility, are equipped with headlights and taillights.
      35.3.5.9. Operators who load and unload aircraft using materials handling and lifting
      equipment will ensure the instructions in TO 36M-1-141, Operator and Operation
      Instruction—463L Materials Handling Equipment (MHE) System, TO 36M2-3-35-11S-2,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          689



     Operation and Operator Maintenance Instructions, Truck, Aircraft Cargo
     Loading/Unloading 60,000 Pound Capacity, TO 36M2-3-45-1, Halvorsen 25K Aircraft
     Cargo Loaders, applicable aircraft Dash 9, and the following are complied with:
        35.3.5.9.1. Ensure center of gravity is as close to the forklift frame as possible, but no
        further than 1/2 the length of the tines, raise the load until clear of the surface and tilt
        the tines backward prior to transporting.
        35.3.5.9.2. When leaving powered lifts or cargo loading equipment unattended, fully
        lower the forks, neutralize the controls (place the transmission in the lowest gear or
        park if an automatic transmission), shut the power off and set the brakes. Chock the
        wheels if the vehicle is parked on an incline.
        35.3.5.9.3. Always use a spotter when a K-loader or forklift is operated in congested
        areas or is approaching or in close proximity to an aircraft.
        35.3.5.9.4. Do not pitch K-loader cargo platforms forward to aid on- or off-loading
        of cargo.
        35.3.5.9.5. Depending upon K-loader design, the rear of the loader may track/swing
        outward or inward cutting a corner during sharp turns. Operators must ensure turn
        clearances are adequate and use a spotter when necessary.
        35.3.5.9.6. Ensure an approved tie-down is used when securing loads to K-Loaders.
        35.3.5.9.7. Secure dunnage to equipment prior to transport.
        35.3.5.9.8. Never leave cargo loading equipment on the ramps or taxiways where it
        could be a hazard to taxiing or towed aircraft.
        35.3.5.9.9. Do not exceed 5 miles per hour within 50 feet of aircraft and 10 miles per
        hour on ramps.
        35.3.5.9.10. Remove ice or snow from equipment before loading or unloading.
        35.3.5.9.11. When using hand pallet trucks inside an aircraft, use at least two (2)
        people.
        35.3.5.9.12. Exercise extreme care when using pry bars to move cargo inside an
        aircraft and be thoroughly familiar with pry bar use limitations and techniques to
        prevent damage.
        35.3.5.9.13. Do not allow personnel to position themselves between:
            35.3.5.9.13.1. Pallets that are locked in place.
            35.3.5.9.13.2. Pallets being loaded or unloaded.
            35.3.5.9.13.3. Moving pallets and materials handling equipment positioned
            outside the aircraft when off-loading.
        35.3.5.9.14. To prevent damage to pallets or aircraft flooring, check all floor areas
        prior to loading or unloading to ensure loose items are removed. Immediately report
        any damage resulting from aircraft loading or unloading to the supervisor.
 690                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   35.3.6. Inspections. All powered industrial trucks shall be inspected daily or prior to use as
   defined in Attachment 1, Terms, by the operator. Equipment shall be kept clean. When
   inspecting equipment, operators will use AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and
   Trouble Report. Refer to paragraph 35.1.1 concerning use of paper forms and automated
   systems. When available, manufacturer‘s instructions shall be consulted for additional
   inspection items appropriate to the specific equipment. Equipment with safety defects shall
   be immediately removed from service until corrected. Examples of safety defects are
   malfunctioning brakes, steering mechanisms, control mechanisms, warning devices, lights,
   lifting mechanisms, guards or tilt mechanisms, fuel leaks, worn or damaged tires, or damaged
   exhaust systems.
   35.3.7. Maintenance.
       35.3.7.1. Repairs to MHE assets under Vehicle Management‘s control shall be
       accomplished by Vehicle Maintenance (maintenance agreement may be necessary for
       locally procured assets). Deviations to this requirement shall be approved by host Vehicle
       Maintenance or installation vehicle maintenance contractor.
       35.3.7.2. Equipment shall be cleaned in designated locations and only with cleaning
       agents approved by the installation FES Flight and BE.
35.4. Conveyors.
   35.4.1. Hazards. Hand and finger injuries may occur when personnel place their hands
   between boxes or other objects on conveyors or attempt to remove or free jammed objects.
   Injuries also occur from hand or finger contact with conveyor rollers.
   35.4.2. Requirements.
       35.4.2.1. Acquisition. Refer to ASME B20.1, Safety Standard for Conveyors and Related
       Equipment. Ensure:
          35.4.2.1.1. All chains, sprockets, belts, couplings and other moving parts to drive
          conveyors are enclosed or guarded.
          35.4.2.1.2. A safety device is installed to prevent hands from being pinched between
          power and idler rollers.
          35.4.2.1.3. All electric motors, controls, wiring and their installation comply with
          NFPA 70, National Electrical Code.
          35.4.2.1.4. Manually-operated hinged sections are designed with spring tension to
          minimize effort required to move them.
          35.4.2.1.5. Mechanically-operated sections have positive catches or stops to hold
          them.
          35.4.2.1.6. Horizontally-hinged sections are designed so they cannot roll, vibrate or
          shift out of the intended position.
          35.4.2.1.7. All overhead conveyors have rails or roller guards to hold objects on the
          conveyor, and sheet metal guards, wire mesh or suitable material under the conveyor
          line to guard against material falling from the conveyors.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       691



        35.4.2.1.8. Rails or guards are installed whenever there is danger of material falling
        from any conveyor.
        35.4.2.1.9. All conveyors installed within seven (7) feet of the floor or surface have
        crossovers or passages.
        35.4.2.1.10. If clear passageways cannot be provided under or around a conveyor,
        that crossover stiles are installed if possible so workers don‘t have to climb on the
        conveyor.
        35.4.2.1.11. Stiles have stairs with non-slip treads, standard handrails and 4-inch
        toeboards.
        35.4.2.1.12. If a crossover cannot be installed to clear objects on the conveyor, that a
        hinge is installed so it can be swung out of the way when not in use.
        35.4.2.1.13. If crossover stiles are not feasible, that metal plates with non-slip treads
        are installed in the conveyor just below and between the rollers.
        35.4.2.1.14. Handrails that clear the load on the conveyor are provided.
        35.4.2.1.15. All starting and stopping devices are clearly marked, clear of
        obstructions and readily accessible.
        35.4.2.1.16. All starting and stopping devices are recessed or guarded to prevent
        accidental contact by persons or moving objects.
        35.4.2.1.17. If a conveyor has two or more stop switches, that such switches are
        arranged so the conveyor cannot be restarted until the actuating stop switch (the
        switch that originally broke the circuit) has been reset to running or ―on‖ position.
        35.4.2.1.18. Electrical or mechanical interlocking devices, which will automatically
        stop a conveyor to prevent jam-ups, are provided.
        35.4.2.1.19. The open end of every roller conveyor is equipped with a stop that
        projects automatically above the rollers when a hinged section is opened, and retracts
        automatically when closed.
        35.4.2.1.20. Retarders, brakes or similar devices are used to prevent loads from
        ―running away‖ at or near the end of an inclined reciprocating conveyor.
        35.4.2.1.21. Hinged sections of a power conveyor are interlocked so they cannot be
        raised while the conveyor is in operation, or so the conveyor will stop automatically
        when a section is opened.
        35.4.2.1.22. Powered conveyors have lockout switches so power can be locked out
        during maintenance Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control
        (Lockout/Tagout), for additional guidance.
     35.4.2.2. Training. Workers using conveyors shall be thoroughly trained on procedures
     for:
        35.4.2.2.1. Starting and stopping conveyors.
        35.4.2.2.2. Loading and unloading conveyors to prevent overloading and jamming.
 692                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          35.4.2.2.3. Clearing jams.
          35.4.2.2.4. Making adjustments.
          35.4.2.2.5. Lockout/tagout procedures. Refer to Chapter 21 for additional guidance.
          35.4.2.2.6. Safe operations outlined in paragraph 35.4.2.3.
       35.4.2.3. Safe Operations. Workers shall:
          35.4.2.3.1. Not ride on, step on or cross over conveyors except at designated
          locations.
          35.4.2.3.2. Not operate conveyors unless all guards are in place.
          35.4.2.3.3. Check the entire conveyor before starting the system, to ensure it is clear
          of personnel.
          35.4.2.3.4. Place small objects in tote boxes on conveyors.
          35.4.2.3.5. Not place hands or fingers between moving objects, fixed parts of the
          conveyor rollers or on the rollers.
          35.4.2.3.6. Not take off guards at end of conveyor or from belts feeding the
          conveyor.
          35.4.2.3.7. Use caution in clearing jam-ups of boxes or other objects on the conveyor
          to prevent hand or finger injuries.
          35.4.2.3.8. Remain outside of the path of overhead conveyors to prevent being struck
          by falling objects.
          35.4.2.3.9. Report defective or worn shafts, rollers or bearings that may break and
          permit rollers to fall from the frame.
          35.4.2.3.10. Not wear loose clothing, loose sleeves or jewelry that may catch in the
          conveyor.
          35.4.2.3.11. Not wear hair long enough that it may become caught in moving parts of
          the equipment unless tied back or contained by another appropriate means.
          35.4.2.3.12. Keep the area around them free of obstructions to permit a clear view of
          the conveyor and ready access to the devices.
       35.4.2.4. Inspections. Supervisors shall ensure the entire conveyor system is inspected
       daily. Defective parts that affect safe operation of the system shall be replaced prior to
       continued operation. Operators shall ensure crossover walkway surfaces are in good
       condition.
       35.4.2.5. Maintenance. No work shall be initiated on a power conveyor until the power
       switch or disconnect has been locked and tagged out. Refer to Chapter 21 for
       lockout/tagout procedures.
35.5. Manual Hoisting and Pulling Devices.
   35.5.1. Hazards. Some common hazards associated with misuse of lever-operated hoists can
   be attributed to use of extensions (cheater bars), indirect pulls and the lack of proper storage
   and maintenance procedures.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         693



   35.5.2. Requirements.
       35.5.2.1. Acquisition. Lever-operated hoists shall meet the requirements and
       specifications of recognized industry standards.
           35.5.2.1.1. Capacity of all lever-operated devices shall be permanently and
           conspicuously marked in a readily visible place on the hoist.
           35.5.2.1.2. Only ratchet and pawl and load brake hoists, which include a means to
           prevent a suspended load from self-lowering, shall be procured. Lowering under load
           shall be by operation of the hoist lever.
       35.5.2.2. Safe Operations.
           35.5.2.2.1. Lever-operated hoists shall only be used in a direct pull. Where indirect
           pulls are permitted by design of the hoist, a sheave or pulley of adequate size shall be
           used.
           35.5.2.2.2. Hoist cables, ropes and chains shall not be wrapped around the load. Use
           only slings or other approved lifting fixtures. For example, cargo straps shall not be
           used for lifting, unless stated in approved Air Force technical data. Refer to paragraph
           35.7 for additional information on slings.
           35.5.2.2.3. Positive action safety latches shall be installed on all hooks.
           35.5.2.2.4. Hooks shall not be point loaded unless designed for this purpose. All
           loads shall be seated in the saddle of the hook.
           35.5.2.2.5. Extensions to levers, such as cheater bars or pipes, unless designed and
           permanently installed by the manufacturer, shall not be used to increase leverage.
           35.5.2.2.6. Manually operated lever hoists shall only be operated by personnel
           trained on use of the equipment. Operator qualifications shall be as determined by the
           facility manager, shop supervisor or designated representative.
           35.5.2.2.7. The rated capacity shall not be exceeded except for authorized load tests.
           35.5.2.2.8. Hoists shall be attached to well defined dead-end points capable of
           withstanding the intended load.
Note: Lifeline attach points shall not be used for hoists.
           35.5.2.2.9. Operators must be careful to avoid pinch points during handling.
       35.5.2.3. Inspections.
           35.5.2.3.1. Frequent. The inspection will include checking for:
               35.5.2.3.1.1. Loose or worn parts, nuts, bolts, etc.
               35.5.2.3.1.2. Cracked or broken welds or parts.
               35.5.2.3.1.3. Damage to hooks: deformation, chemical damage, cracks or
               defective safety latches. Hooks having more than 5 percent of normal throat
               opening or any apparent bend or twist from the plane from the original baseline
               measurements shall be replaced. Refer to paragraph 35.11.5.1.1.
694                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             35.5.2.3.1.4. Bent or deformed pawls.
             35.5.2.3.1.5. Lubrication.
         35.5.2.3.2. Periodic.
             35.5.2.3.2.1. Complete inspection of all wire rope, chain and fittings or
             attachments.
             35.5.2.3.2.2. Inspection of brakes, pawls or other holding features.
             35.5.2.3.2.3. Inspection of chain length. Chains elongated more than 1/4 inch in
             12 inches shall be removed from service.
         35.5.2.3.3. Identification tags shall be attached to all hoists. Tags shall include the
         following information:
             35.5.2.3.3.1. Date of annual inspection.
             35.5.2.3.3.2. Date of load test.
             35.5.2.3.3.3. Capacity of hoist.
             35.5.2.3.3.4. Identification number of hoist.
      35.5.2.4. Maintenance. Maintenance shall be performed IAW the manufacturer‘s
      instruction or applicable TO.
      35.5.2.5. Testing.
         35.5.2.5.1. Operational Tests. All new hoists, those which have had load-suspension
         parts altered, replaced or repaired, and hoists that have not been used within the
         preceding 12 months shall be operationally tested before use. The test shall consist of
         operating all functions of the hoist under a no-load condition to test all functions of
         the hoist, including hoisting and lowering, operation of brakes and testing of all limit,
         locking and safety devices.
         35.5.2.5.2. Load Tests.
             35.5.2.5.2.1. Prior to initial use, all new hoists shall be tested at not less than 100
             percent or more than 125 percent of the rated load by the manufacturer or a
             qualified person, as defined in Attachment 1, Terms. Using organizations shall
             maintain written certification on AFTO Form 95 that all required load testing has
             been accomplished.
             35.5.2.5.2.2. Before being returned to service, all hoists with altered, replaced or
             repaired load-suspension parts shall be load tested by the manufacturer or a
             qualified person at not less than 100 percent or more than 125 percent of the rated
             load. This load test shall include all functions outlined in paragraph 35.5.2.5. The
             replacement of load chain or rope is specifically excluded from this test; however,
             an operational test under a no-load condition shall be conducted prior to putting
             the hoist back into service.
             35.5.2.5.2.3. Records of these tests shall be maintained indefinitely in a location
             determined by the user.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         695



35.6. Hoists. This section outlines basic requirements for power-operated hoists used for
vertical lifting and are not permanently mounted to other equipment, i.e., a crane, monorail or
derrick, that serves as a supporting structure. Refer to paragraph 35.8 for additional requirements
associated with hoists used as components of overhead, gantry and underhung cranes and
monorail systems. See additional requirements in paragraph 35.9 for mobile and locomotive
cranes and paragraph 35.10 for derricks. Requirements for hoists in these applications are more
detailed due to the equipment‘s capability for lateral movement in addition to a straight vertical
lift.
   35.6.1. Hazards. The most common hazards associated with hoists are overloading, dropping
   or slipping of the load from improper hitching or slinging, obstruction to load passage and
   failure to stabilize the load during the movement. Injury severity is increased by personnel
   not wearing required PPE, such as hard hat, gloves, safety-toe shoes and eye protection.
   35.6.2. Human Factors. Human factors, such as inattention and failure to keep the load clear
   of people and objects, are also factors which result in mishaps.
   35.6.3. Requirements.
       35.6.3.1. Acquisition. Overhead hoists shall meet design specifications, characteristics
       and rules of ANSI/ASME B30.7, Base-Mounted Drum Hoists, B30.10, Hooks, and
       B30.16, Overhead Hoists (Underhung). When applicable, a system safety program shall
       be established. The guidelines of Crane Manufacturers Association of America, Inc.
       (CMAA) Specification 70, Specification for Top Running Bridge and Gantry Type
       Multiple Girder Electric Overhead Traveling Cranes, and CMAA 74, Specification for
       Top Running and Under Running Single Girder Electric Overhead Cranes Utilizing
       Under Running Trolley Hoist, shall be followed. Note: Nuclear-certified hoists must also
       meet requirements in AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for
       Nuclear Weapon Systems.
       35.6.3.2. General.
           35.6.3.2.1. Platforms. Hoist platforms shall have suitable side and overhead
           protection to prevent operator injury from a falling load.
           35.6.3.2.2. Signals. Standard operating signals, understood by operators and
           signalers, shall be used in hoist operations. Refer to Figure 35.21 for examples of
           approved signals.
           35.6.3.2.3. Engines and Motors. Hoist engines and motors shall be guarded to protect
           personnel.
           35.6.3.2.4. Brakes. Self locking brakes, capable of holding at least 125 percent of the
           rated capacity, shall be installed on all hoists.
           35.6.3.2.5. Electric Hoists. The conductors and switches of electric hoists shall be
           guarded against accidental contact.
           35.6.3.2.6. Loads. All loads shall be balanced on hoist carriages and secured to
           prevent slipping or shifting.
696                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.6.3.2.7. Slack Chain. A chain container shall be provided where slack chain
         hanging from a hoist may be a hazard.
         35.6.3.2.8. Hooks. Latch-type safety hooks shall be installed on all hoists.
         35.6.3.2.9. Load Rating. The rated capacity shall be permanently marked on the hoist
         or its load block and shall be legible from the operating position. The rated capacity
         for each member of the suspension device, when used as intended, shall be equal to
         the other suspension members to which it is attached. When this is not feasible, a plan
         shall be developed to identify special precautions that shall be taken to ensure the
         lowest rated suspension member‘s rated capacity is not exceeded.
         35.6.3.2.10. Warnings. Information concerning operating procedures shall be posted
         by all hoists or displayed on a label affixed to the hoist, controls or block, as
         referenced in ANSI B30.16, Overhead Hoists (Underhung), and shall include
         cautions regarding:
             35.6.3.2.10.1. Lifting more than the rated capacity.
             35.6.3.2.10.2. Operating the hoist when the hook is not centered under the hoist.
             35.6.3.2.10.3. Operating a damaged or malfunctioning hoist.
             35.6.3.2.10.4. Operating a rope hoist with a rope not properly seated in its
             groove.
             35.6.3.2.10.5. Lifting people or loads over people.
             35.6.3.2.10.6. Operating the hoist with twisted, kinked or damaged chain or rope.
             35.6.3.2.10.7. Removing or obscuring the warning label.
         35.6.3.2.11. Pendants. The pendant station shall be supported by a cable, chain or
         rope that will protect the electrical conductors against strain. Pendant control stations
         shall be constructed to prevent electrical shock and shall be clearly marked for
         identification of functions.
         35.6.3.2.12. Support. The supporting structure of the hoist, including tripod, trolley,
         monorail, crane or facility beam shall be designed to withstand the load and forces
         imposed by the hoist.
         35.6.3.2.13. Location. The hoist shall be installed to give the operator room to remain
         clear of the load at all times.
         35.6.3.2.14. Remote Operated Hoists. Remote operated hoists shall function so that if
         the central signal for any hoist motion becomes ineffective, hoist motion shall stop.
         35.6.3.2.15. Tag Lines. Tag lines shall be used on free-swinging loads to help guide
         and prevent striking nearby objects.
         35.6.3.2.16. Upper Limit Switches. Upper limit switches shall be installed and
         operable on all powered hoists.
      35.6.3.3. Qualification of Operators. Manually operated hoists shall be operated only by
      personnel trained and qualified to use the equipment or trainees under direct supervision
      of a qualified trainer/instructor. Power operated hoists shall be operated only by trained
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       697



     and qualified persons designated by the appropriate supervisor. The operator shall be
     familiar with all hoist operating controls and be instructed in the operations to be
     performed. Training shall include the warnings on the hoist, manufacturer‘s instructions
     and requirements outlined in paragraphs 35.6.3.4.1 and 35.6.3.4.2 below. Maintenance
     and test personnel and qualified inspectors may also operate hoists in the performance of
     their duties.
     35.6.3.4. Safe Operations.
        35.6.3.4.1. Operating Practices.
            35.6.3.4.1.1. Operators who must divert their attention while operating a hoist
            will stop the hoist.
            35.6.3.4.1.2. When an AF Form 979, Danger, AF Form 981, Out of Order, AF
            Form 982, Do Not Start, or AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout, tag is
            attached to the starting controls, the hoist operator shall not apply power to the
            unit or start operations until the condition has been corrected and the tag and any
            lock(s) are removed. Requirements for tags and locks are prescribed in Chapter
            21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), and Chapter 29, Mishap
            Prevention Signs and Tags. Refer to paragraph 35.6.3.6.5.1 for additional
            guidance.
            35.6.3.4.1.3. Before starting the hoist, the operator shall ensure all personnel are
            clear of the area.
            35.6.3.4.1.4. The operator shall be familiar with the equipment and its proper
            care. If adjustments or repairs are necessary or any damage is observed or
            suspected, the operator shall promptly report the problem to the supervisor.
            35.6.3.4.1.5. Operators shall ensure their hands are clear of all moving parts
            before operating hoists.
            35.6.3.4.1.6. On chain hoists, the operator shall have safe access to the hand
            chain.
            35.6.3.4.1.7. Manual hoists shall never be operated by other than hand power.
        35.6.3.4.2. Handling the Load.
            35.6.3.4.2.1. The rated capacity shall not be exceeded except for properly
            authorized tests. If it is known or suspected that a hoist may have been overloaded
            (other than a required and approved test load), the supervisor shall ensure that all
            frequent and periodic inspections are completed prior to use. Refer to paragraphs
            35.6.3.5.1 and 35.6.3.5.2.
            35.6.3.4.2.2. The hoisting rope or chain shall not be wrapped around the load.
            35.6.3.4.2.3. The load shall be attached to the hook, equipped with a safety latch,
            by means of slings or other devices designed specifically for the load being lifted.
            35.6.3.4.2.4. Slings or other devices shall be seated properly in the saddle of the
            hook before lifting operations begin.
698                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.6.3.4.2.5. The load shall not be moved or lifted more than a few inches until it
         is well balanced in a sling or lifting device and center of gravity is known.
         35.6.3.4.2.6. Hoisting the load. Ensure that:
             35.6.3.4.2.6.1. Hoist ropes or chains are not twisted about each other.
             35.6.3.4.2.6.2. The load does not contact any obstruction.
             35.6.3.4.2.6.3. Ropes or chains are protected against sharp edges of the load.
         35.6.3.4.2.7. The rope or chain shall be properly seated on the drum sheaves or
         sprockets before starting the lift.
         35.6.3.4.2.8. Hoists shall not be operated until the hoist unit is centered over the
         load.
         35.6.3.4.2.9. A hoist shall not be used for hoisting personnel unless specifically
         designed for this purpose and only if it is the safest means of accomplishing the
         work.
         35.6.3.4.2.10. Loads shall not be carried over personnel.
         35.6.3.4.2.11. The operator shall test the brakes each time a load is handled by
         raising the load just enough to clear the floor or supports and checking for brake
         action. The lift shall be continued only after ensuring the braking system is
         operating properly.
         35.6.3.4.2.12. No loaded rope hoist drum shall be lowered where less than two
         (2) wraps of rope remain on the drum. Distinctive rope markings may be used to
         warn the operator the rope wrap limit is being reached.
         35.6.3.4.2.13. The operator shall inch the hoist upward to engage a load and
         avoid unnecessary stops and starts.
         35.6.3.4.2.14. Suspended loads shall not be left unattended.
         35.6.3.4.2.15. The upper limit device shall not be used as a normal operating
         control except to inch the hook into place for storage between uses.
         35.6.3.4.2.16. If a load must remain suspended for a considerable time, a pawl or
         other equivalent means, rather than the brake alone, shall be used to hold the load.
         The ground area below the suspended load shall be barricaded to prohibit entry of
         personnel or equipment.
         35.6.3.4.2.17. Excessive jogging or inching (rapid, repeated starts and stops) of
         hoist controls shall be avoided. Premature wear or possible uncontrolled
         movement could occur.
      35.6.3.4.3. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
         35.6.3.4.3.1. Protective helmets shall be worn if there is a potential for injury
         from falling objects or moving equipment.
         35.6.3.4.3.2. Safety-toe shoes shall be worn by all personnel involved in
         materials handling when there is a danger of injuries.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    699



            35.6.3.4.3.3. Safety goggles shall be worn when eye injury hazards, such as
            work-generated dirt, dust or other airborne particles are present.
            35.6.3.4.3.4. Gloves shall be worn by workers performing hooking, unhooking,
            loading, handling tag lines or unloading operations, when there is a potential for
            injury from punctures and severe cuts, lacerations and abrasions.
     35.6.3.5. Inspections. The following items shall be inspected for damage or wear at
     intervals specified, including observations during operation. Deficiencies shall be
     carefully examined and the operator and shop or facility supervisor shall determine if
     they are a safety hazard.
        35.6.3.5.1. Frequent. The inspection will include:
            35.6.3.5.1.1. Past inspection records — review for discrepancies and inspection
            dates.
            35.6.3.5.1.2. All controls and operation mechanisms — inspect for proper
            operation as described in paragraph 35.6.3.7.1. On pendant controls, inspect the
            electrical and support cable for condition and ensure all labels are present and
            legible.
            35.6.3.5.1.3. All safety devices, including the upper limit switches — check for
            proper operation as described in paragraph 35.6.3.7.1. The block or hoist shall be
            ―inched‖ into the limit switch, or running at slow speed on multi- or variable-
            speed hoists, to prevent possible damage.
            35.6.3.5.1.4. Air and hydraulic systems — inspect for deterioration or leakage.
            35.6.3.5.1.5. Hoist chains — inspect and document as outlined in paragraph
            35.11.3.1.
            35.6.3.5.1.6. Hoist braking system — check for proper operation.
            35.6.3.5.1.7. Hooks — inspect and document as outlined in paragraph 35.11.5.1.
            Hooks having more than five (5) percent of normal throat opening or any apparent
            bend or twist from the plane from the original baseline measurements shall be
            replaced.
            35.6.3.5.1.8. Wire ropes — inspect and document as outlined in paragraph
            35.11.2.2.
            35.6.3.5.1.9. Other components or hardware — inspect for general security and
            serviceability.
        35.6.3.5.2. Periodic. The periodic inspection shall include items in paragraph
        35.6.3.5.1, plus the following:
            35.6.3.5.2.1. Past inspection records, AFTO Forms 95 and 244, and any other
            paper or electronic system records — review for anomalies and discrepancies.
            35.6.3.5.2.2. Drums, load sprockets, and sheaves — check for cracks, uneven
            wear or other damage. Sheave grooves shall be smooth and free from surface
            irregularities which could cause rope damage.
700                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             35.6.3.5.2.3. Motor or load brake — inspect for excessive wear.
             35.6.3.5.2.4. Wire ropes — inspect and document as outlined in paragraph
             35.11.2.2.
             35.6.3.5.2.5. Hoist chains — inspect and document as outlined in paragraph
             35.11.3.1.
             35.6.3.5.2.6. Hooks — inspect and document as outlined in paragraph 35.11.5.1.
             Hooks having more than five (5) percent of normal throat opening or any apparent
             bend or twist from the plane from the original baseline measurements shall be
             replaced.
             35.6.3.5.2.7. Friction disc — check for wear, glazing or oil contamination.
             35.6.3.5.2.8. Pawls, cams or ratchets on brake mechanisms — check for wear.
             35.6.3.5.2.9. Pawl springs — look for corroded, stretched or broken springs.
             35.6.3.5.2.10. Hook blocks, suspension housing, outrigger, hand chain wheels,
             chain attachments, clevises, yokes, suspension bolts, shafts, gears, bearings, pins,
             rollers, locking and clamping devices — look for worn, cracked, corroded or
             distorted parts.
             35.6.3.5.2.11. Supporting structure — check continued ability to support the
             imposed loads.
             35.6.3.5.2.12. Controller contactors, limit switches and push button stations on
             electrical apparatus — look for signs of pitting or deterioration.
             35.6.3.5.2.13. Fasteners — check for evidence of loosening.
             35.6.3.5.2.14. Nuclear-certified hoists—see        additional    requirements    in
             paragraphs 35.6.3.7.3 and 35.11.5.1.4.
      35.6.3.6. Maintenance.
         35.6.3.6.1. Preventive Maintenance. The using organization shall establish a
         preventive maintenance program based on the manufacturer‘s recommendations. If
         manufacturer‘s instructions cannot be obtained, the using organization shall contact
         the Air Force equipment item manager for assistance. Preventive maintenance shall
         be documented on the AFTO Form 244, AFTO Form 95 or MAJCOM or locally
         devised paper or automated system IAW paragraph 35.1.1, as appropriate. These
         records shall be maintained for the life of the equipment at a location determined by
         the user.
         35.6.3.6.2. Lubrication. All moving parts of the hoist for which lubrication is
         specified shall be regularly lubricated. Manufacturer‘s or TO recommendations for
         points and frequency of lubrication and quantity and type of lubricant to be used shall
         be followed. Machinery shall be stationary, with energy sources locked out, while
         lubricants are applied. Refer to paragraph 35.6.3.6.5.3 for additional information.
         35.6.3.6.3. Rope Replacement and Maintenance. Refer to paragraphs 35.11.2.3 and
         35.11.2.4.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       701



        35.6.3.6.4. Adjustments and Repairs. Repair, replacements or adjustments shall be
        made as necessary to ensure correct performance of all hoist components.
            35.6.3.6.4.1. Replace all worn braking components such as friction discs,
            ratchets, pawls and pawl springs.
            35.6.3.6.4.2. Replace worn, corroded or otherwise damaged load chain and rope.
            35.6.3.6.4.3. Replace hooks showing defects (see paragraph 35.11.5.1). Repair or
            replace damaged hook safety latches.
            35.6.3.6.4.4. Replace load supporting components which are cracked, bent or
            excessively worn.
            35.6.3.6.4.5. Replace missing or illegible warning labels.
            35.6.3.6.4.6. Replace pitted or burned electrical contacts in sets only. Lubricate
            controller parts as recommended by the manufacturer.
            35.6.3.6.4.7. Keep pendant control stations clean and function labels legible.
            35.6.3.6.4.8. Adjust all functional operating mechanisms, brakes and pawls, limit
            switches and other limiting devices to ensure correct functioning.
        35.6.3.6.5. Maintenance Procedures. The following precautions shall be taken before
        adjustments or repairs are started on a hoist:
            35.6.3.6.5.1. A lock and AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout, tag shall
            be placed on the hoist and all energy controls (air, electrical, hydraulic, etc.)
            locked out IAW Chapter 21 when adjustments, modifications or repairs are
            scheduled. The hoist operator will not apply power to the equipment or start
            operations until the conditions have been corrected and the tag and lock removed
            IAW Chapter 21.
            35.6.3.6.5.2. Drum pawls shall be engaged or other means provided to prevent
            load ropes from inadvertently rotating the mechanism.
     35.6.3.7. Testing.
        35.6.3.7.1. Operational Tests. All new hoists and those which have had load-
        suspension parts altered, replaced or repaired shall be operationally tested before use.
        The test shall consist of operating all functions of the hoist under a no-load condition
        to test all functions of the hoist, including hoisting and lowering, operation of brakes
        and testing of all limit, locking and safety devices. Trip-setting of limit devices shall
        be determined by tests under no-load conditions. Conduct tests first by hand, if
        practical, and then under slowest possible speed. Test with increasing speeds up to
        maximum speed. Actuated mechanisms shall be located so they trip switches or
        limiting devices in sufficient time to stop motion without damage to the hoisting
        arrangement. On hoists having adjustable trip-setting limit devices, care shall be
        exercised to achieve adjustment setting without the load block striking the hoist frame
        or without all the slack being taken out of the unloaded chain or less than one wrap of
        rope on the drum.
702                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      35.6.3.7.2. Load Tests. Prior to initial use, all new hoists shall be tested at not less
      than 100 percent or more than 125 percent of the rated load by the manufacturer or a
      qualified person. Using organizations will maintain written certification that all
      required load testing has been accomplished. A hoist with altered, replaced or
      repaired load suspension parts shall be tested at not less than 100 percent or more
      than 125 percent of the rated load prior to being returned to service. This load test
      shall include all functions outlined in paragraph 35.6.3.7.1. The replacement of load
      chain or rope is specifically excluded from this test; however, an operational test
      under a no-load condition shall be conducted prior to putting the hoist back into
      service. Refer to paragraph 35.6.3.7.1. Maintain records of these tests as required by
      paragraph 35.6.3.8.
      35.6.3.7.3. Test nuclear-certified hoists, as required, in paragraphs 35.6.3.7.1 and
      35.6.3.7.2 and annually thereafter at not less than 100 percent or more than 125
      percent of rated capacity. Perform annual tests in conjunction with one of the two
      semiannual inspections. Refer to note in paragraph 35.6.3.5.2.
      35.6.3.7.4. Hoists required to lift critical loads, as defined in Attachment 1, Terms,
      shall be tested as stated in paragraphs 35.6.3.7.1 and 35.6.3.7.2 and annually
      thereafter at not less than 100 percent or more than 125 percent of rated capacity. Air
      Force materials shall be designated as critical loads for purposes of lifting or hoisting
      by an appropriate Program Manager or the functional manager at the facility where
      the lift will occur. Items for consideration in making a critical load determination
      include, but are not limited to:
         35.6.3.7.4.1. Personnel injury or significant adverse health impact.
         35.6.3.7.4.2. Damage resulting in serious economic consequences (non-
         availability of funds to repair or replace item).
         35.6.3.7.4.3. Damage resulting in unacceptable delay to schedule (mission
         impairment) or adverse programmatic impact (e.g., loss of vital data).
         35.6.3.7.4.4. Undetectable damage that would jeopardize future operations or
         safety of a facility.
         35.6.3.7.4.5. Damage that may occur without exceptional care in handling
         because of close-tolerance installation, high susceptibility to damage or other
         unusual characteristic.
         35.6.3.7.4.6. Damage that would result in significant release of hazardous
         materials.
         35.6.3.7.4.7. Damage that may occur because the item, although non-critical,
         must be lifted above a critical item, e.g., loads of any sort in close proximity to a
         nuclear component or near concentrations of hazardous materials.
      35.6.3.7.5. Test weights utilized for rated load tests shall be tagged or adequately
      marked indicating total weight in pounds and owner or agency identification number.
      Reinforcing (rebar) steel shall not be used for test weight lift points.
      35.6.3.7.6. Inspections shall be documented on AFTO Form 95 or MAJCOM or
      locally devised paper or automated systems as outlined in paragraph 35.6.3.8.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       703



       35.6.3.8. Historical Records. A MAJCOM or locally devised paper or automated system,
       with dated and signed record of all periodic inspections, repairs and tests shall be
       maintained indefinitely in a location determined by the user. Refer to paragraph 35.1.1
       for additional guidance.
35.7. Slings.
   35.7.1. Hazards. Improper use of slings can cause injury, death and property damage.
   Mishaps often occur when loads are dropped or slip because the sling or its attachments
   break. Most sling mishaps can be attributed to inadequate design, improper selection, poor
   inspection, failure to make sure loads are properly attached and secured, or improper storage
   and care. Common causes for sling mishaps include:
       35.7.1.1. Use of damaged or defective slings.
       35.7.1.2. Unauthorized modifications to slings.
       35.7.1.3. Kinks in supporting ropes and cables.
       35.7.1.4. Overloaded slings.
       35.7.1.5. Improperly balanced loads which allow them to slip.
       35.7.1.6. Loads not securely attached to the slings.
       35.7.1.7. Not using pads to protect sling from sharp edges or corners.
       35.7.1.8. Loads hitting obstructions.
       35.7.1.9. Personnel standing or walking under suspended loads.
       35.7.1.10. Personnel placing hands between sling and load before sling is tightened
       around load.
       35.7.1.11. Sling failure caused by damage when slings are pulled from under a load.
       35.7.1.12. Improperly rigged loads.
       35.7.1.13. Use of unauthorized equipment such as cargo straps, as slings.
   35.7.2. General Requirements.
       35.7.2.1. Acquisition. Slings procured for Air Force use shall comply with design and
       manufacturing requirements in 29 CFR 1910.184, Slings, and ANSI/ASME B30.9,
       Slings. Specifications for procurement of slings shall contain enough information to
       ensure that manufacturers comply with all design, construction and testing criteria
       contained in references above. Note: Locally manufactured slings that do not meet the
       engineering requirements of ANSI/ASME B30.9 are prohibited and shall be
       disassembled and removed from service.
       35.7.2.2. Identification and Marking. Slings shall be marked or identified on the sling or
       on durable and legible tags or labels as follows:
           35.7.2.2.1. Alloy steel chain slings shall be permanently marked with size,
           manufacturer‘s grade, rated capacity and angle upon which the rating is based, its
           reach, number of legs and manufacturer‘s name.
704                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.7.2.2.2. Wire rope slings shall be marked with the rated capacity and
         manufacturer.
         35.7.2.2.3. Metal mesh slings shall have a durable marking permanently attached that
         states the rated capacity for vertical basket hitch and choker hitch loadings, and
         marked with the manufacturer‘s name.
         35.7.2.2.4. Synthetic web slings shall be permanently marked with the name of the
         manufacturer, the manufacturer‘s code or stock number, the rated capacity for types
         of hitches used and the type of synthetic material used.
      35.7.2.3. Inspections.
         35.7.2.3.1. Frequent. A visual inspection shall be performed by the operator or
         designated person daily or prior to use. If damage, defects or abuse is detected, the
         sling shall be removed from service until periodic testing is done. This inspection will
         be documented on AFTO Form 244. Refer to paragraph 35.1.1 concerning use of
         paper forms and automated systems.
         35.7.2.3.2. Periodic. The following items will be inspected:
             35.7.2.3.2.1. Remove all dirt, grease or oil from all sling components.
             35.7.2.3.2.2. Visually inspect all parts for excessive wear, deformations, fraying,
             stretching and any other defects that may reduce the sling‘s rated capacity. Refer
             to the specific requirements of paragraphs 35.7.3.1 through 35.7.3.5.
             35.7.2.3.2.3. Remove sling from service if any component shows defects or
             deterioration as noted in paragraphs 35.7.3.1 through 35.7.3.5.
      35.7.2.4. Testing. (Note: For nuclear-certified slings and wire rope assemblies, use the
      appropriate 11N series TOs for testing criteria.)
         35.7.2.4.1. Proof Testing. Prior to initial use, all new slings shall be proof tested by
         the manufacturer or a qualified person. See requirements for specific types of slings
         in paragraphs 35.7.3.1.1, 35.7.3.2.1, 35.7.3.3.1, 35.7.3.4.1, and 35.7.3.5.1. Using
         organizations shall maintain written certification that all required proof testing has
         been accomplished. Note: Written proof test certification is not required for new
         synthetic rope and web slings manufactured IAW ASME B30.9 and not used to lift
         nuclear or critical loads. However, repaired synthetic rope and web slings shall be
         proof tested IAW paragraph 35.7.2.4.2.
         35.7.2.4.2. All repaired and reconditioned slings shall be proof tested by the
         manufacturer or a qualified person IAW the specific requirements of paragraphs
         35.7.3.1.1, 35.7.3.3.1, and 35.7.3.5.1 prior to being returned to service. A record of
         the most recent proof test shall be retained on file.
         35.7.2.4.3. Load Testing. Any periodic load testing of slings, spreader-bars, lifting
         beams or other specialized lifting attachments at any load above rated capacity is not
         a recognized inspection procedure under OSHA‘s interpretation of 29 CFR
         1910.184(e)(4). Periodic load testing shall only be accomplished with written
         permission and procedural guidance from the sling manufacturer or equivalent Air
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        705



         Force organization (e.g., the specific equipment TO or the item manager for locally
         manufactured equipment).
  35.7.3. Specific Requirements.
     35.7.3.1. Alloy Steel Chain Slings.
         35.7.3.1.1. Prior to use, all new, repaired or reconditioned alloy steel chain slings,
         including all welded components in the sling assembly, shall be proof tested to 200
         percent of rated capacity.
            35.7.3.1.1.1. For multiple leg slings, each leg shall be proof tested to 200 percent
            of the single leg rated load.
            35.7.3.1.1.2. Master links and master coupling links for double or triple leg slings
            shall be proof tested to 200 percent of the single leg rated load times the number
            of legs connected to the link.
         35.7.3.1.2. Hooks, rings, oblong or pear-shaped links, welded or mechanical
         coupling links or other attachments shall have a rated capacity at least equal to that of
         the alloy steel chain with which they are used. The sling shall not be proof tested in
         excess of the rated capacity of the weakest component.
         35.7.3.1.3. Unauthorized makeshift links or fasteners, such as those formed from
         bolts or rods, shall not be used.
         35.7.3.1.4. Alloy steel chain slings shall not be used with loads more than the rated
         capacities prescribed in Table 35.1 Slings not included in this table shall be used only
         IAW the manufacturer‘s recommendations.
         35.7.3.1.5. Alloy steel chain slings shall be permanently removed from service if
         exposed to heat above 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit (F). When exposed to service
         temperature in excess of 600 degrees F, maximum working load limits permitted in
         Table 35.1 shall be reduced according to the chain or sling manufacturer‘s
         recommendations.
         35.7.3.1.6. Worn or damaged alloy steel chain slings and attachments shall not be
         used until repaired (or reconditioned) and proof tested by the manufacturer or a
         qualified person.
         35.7.3.1.7. Mechanical coupling links or low carbon steel repair links shall not be
         used to repair broken lengths of chain.
         35.7.3.1.8. If the chain size at any point of any link is less than that stated in Table
         35.2 the sling shall be removed from service.
         35.7.3.1.9. Alloy steel chain slings with cracked or deformed master links, coupling
         links or other components shall be removed from service.
         35.7.3.1.10. Slings will be removed from service if hooks are cracked, have any
         visibly apparent been or twist from the plane of the unbent hook (original
         manufacturer or baseline measurements), any distortion causing an increase in throat
         opening of five (5) percent, not to exceed ¼ inch (or as recommended by the
706                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         manufacturer), or any wear exceeding 10 percent (or as recommended by the hook
         manufacturer) of the original manufacturer or baseline section dimension of the hook.
         Refer to paragraph 35.11.5.1.
      35.7.3.2. Wire Rope Slings.
         35.7.3.2.1. Prior to initial use, all new wire rope slings shall be proof tested as
         follows:
             35.7.3.2.1.1. Proof load for swaged-socket and poured-socket assemblies shall be
             IAW the wire rope or fitting manufacturer‘s recommendations.
             35.7.3.2.1.2. Proof load for single leg hand tucked slings shall be not less than
             100 percent or more than 125 percent of the rated capacity.
             35.7.3.2.1.3. Proof load for mechanical splice single leg slings and endless slings
             shall be 200 percent of the vertical rated capacity.
             35.7.3.2.1.4. Proof load for multiple leg bridle slings shall be applied to the
             individual legs and shall be 200 percent of the vertical rated capacity of a single
             leg sling of the same size, grade and construction of rope.
         35.7.3.2.2. Wire rope slings shall not be used with loads in excess of capacities
         shown in Table 35.3 through Table 35.14 Slings not included in these tables shall be
         used only IAW the manufacturer‘s recommendations.
         35.7.3.2.3. Minimum sling lengths are determined as follows:
             35.7.3.2.3.1. Cable laid and 6 by 19 and 6 by 37 slings shall have a minimum
             clear length of wire rope between splices, sleeves or end fittings 10 times the
             component rope diameter.
             35.7.3.2.3.2. Braided slings shall have a minimum clear length of wire rope
             between loops or end fittings 40 times the component rope diameter.
             35.7.3.2.3.3. Cable laid grommets, strand laid grommets and endless slings shall
             have a minimum circumferential length of 96 times their body diameter.
         35.7.3.2.4. Fiber core wire rope slings of all grades shall be permanently removed
         from service if exposed to temperatures in excess of 200 degrees F. When nonfiber
         core wire rope slings of any grade are used above 400 degrees F or below minus 60
         degrees F, sling manufacturer recommendations regarding use at that temperature
         shall be followed.
         35.7.3.2.5. End attachments, except covers to thimbles, shall be welded before the
         sling is assembled.
         35.7.3.2.6. Welded end attachments shall be proof tested at twice their rated capacity
         prior to initial use. The owning agency shall maintain a record or certificate of proof
         test and make it available for inspection.
         35.7.3.2.7. Wire rope slings shall be removed from service if any of the following
         conditions are present:
             35.7.3.2.7.1. Ten randomly distributed broken wires in one rope lay or five
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      707



            broken wires in one strand in one rope lay.
            35.7.3.2.7.2. Wear or scraping of 1/3 the original diameter of outside individual
            wires.
            35.7.3.2.7.3. Kinking, crushing, bird caging or any other damage that distorts the
            wire rope structure.
            35.7.3.2.7.4. Heat damage.
            35.7.3.2.7.5. Cracked, deformed or worn end attachments.
            35.7.3.2.7.6. Sling hooks that have any visibly apparent bend or twist from the
            plane of the unbent hook (original manufacturer or baseline measurements), any
            distortion causing an increase in throat opening of five (5) percent, not to exceed
            ¼ inch (or as recommended by the manufacturer), or any wear exceeding 10
            percent (or as recommended by the hook manufacturer) of the original
            manufacturer or baseline section dimension of the hook. Refer to paragraph
            35.11.4.1.
            35.7.3.2.7.7. Corrosion of rope or end attachments.
        35.7.3.2.8. Only new rope shall be used to fabricate slings. Use of repaired or
        reconditioned rope is prohibited.
        35.7.3.2.9. Slings used in a choker hitch shall be long enough so the choke point is
        on the rope and never on a splice.
     35.7.3.3. Metal Mesh Slings.
        35.7.3.3.1. All new and repaired metal mesh slings, including handles, shall be proof
        tested at a minimum of 150 percent of their rated capacity before use. Elastomer
        impregnated slings shall be proof tested before they are coated.
        35.7.3.3.2. Handles shall have a rated capacity at least equal to the metal fabric and
        exhibit no deformation after proof testing.
        35.7.3.3.3. The fabric and handles shall be joined so that:
            35.7.3.3.3.1. The rated capacity of the sling is not reduced.
            35.7.3.3.3.2. The load is evenly distributed across the width of the fabric.
            35.7.3.3.3.3. Sharp edges shall not damage the fabric.
        35.7.3.3.4. Coatings which damage the sling and diminish the rated capacity shall not
        be applied.
        35.7.3.3.5. Except for required proof tests, metal mesh slings shall not be used to lift
        loads in excess of their rated capacities prescribed in Table 35.15 Slings not included
        in this table shall be used only IAW the manufacturer‘s recommendations.
        35.7.3.3.6. Metal mesh slings not impregnated with elastomers may be used from
        minus 20o F to 550o F without decreasing the working load limit. Metal mesh slings
        impregnated with polyvinyl chloride or neoprene may be used only from 0oF to 200o
        F. For operations outside these temperature ranges or for metal mesh slings
708                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         impregnated with other materials, the sling manufacturer‘s recommendations shall be
         followed.
         35.7.3.3.7. Metal mesh slings shall be removed from service if any of the following
         conditions are present:
             35.7.3.3.7.1. Broken weld or broken brazed joint along the sling edge.
             35.7.3.3.7.2. Reduction in wire diameter of 25 percent due to abrasion or 15
             percent due to corrosion.
             35.7.3.3.7.3. Lack of flexibility due to distortion of the fabric.
             35.7.3.3.7.4. Distortion of the female handle so slot depth is increased more than
             10 percent.
             35.7.3.3.7.5. Distortion of either handle so width is decreased more than 10
             percent.
             35.7.3.3.7.6. Reduction of 15 percent of the original cross-sectional area of metal
             at any point around the handle eye.
             35.7.3.3.7.7. Distortion of either handle out of its plane.
             35.7.3.3.7.8. Cracked end fitting.
             35.7.3.3.7.9. A broken wire in any part of the mesh.
      35.7.3.4. Natural and Synthetic Fiber Rope Slings.
         35.7.3.4.1. Prior to use, new fiber rope slings shall be proof tested to 200 percent of
         the vertical rated load. Note: Written proof test certification is not required for new
         synthetic rope slings manufactured IAW ASME B30.9, Slings, and not used to lift
         nuclear or critical loads.
         35.7.3.4.2. Fiber rope slings made from conventional three-strand construction rope
         shall not be used with loads in excess of rated capacities in Table 35.16 through
         Table 35.19
         35.7.3.4.3. Cargo straps shall not be used as a sling or part of a sling configuration.
         35.7.3.4.4. Slings not included in these tables shall be used only IAW the
         manufacturer‘s recommendations.
         35.7.3.4.5. Fiber rope slings shall have a diameter of curvature not less than that
         specified in Figure 35.18 and Figure 35.19
         35.7.3.4.6. Natural and synthetic fiber rope slings, except for wet frozen slings, may
         be used in a temperature range from (minus) 20oF to (positive) 180oF without
         decreasing the working load. For operations outside this temperature range and for
         wet frozen slings, or where rope and slings have been stored in a chemically active
         environment, the sling manufacturer‘s recommendations shall be followed.
         35.7.3.4.7. Spliced fiber rope slings shall not be used unless spliced IAW the
         following minimum requirements and any additional manufacturer recommendations:
             35.7.3.4.7.1. In manila rope, eye splices shall consist of at least three (3) full
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           709



            tucks. Short splices shall consist of at least six (6) full tucks, three (3) on each side
            of the splice center line.
            35.7.3.4.7.2. In synthetic fiber rope, eye splices shall consist of at least four (4)
            full tucks. Short splices shall consist of at least eight (8) full tucks, four (4) on
            each side of the center line.
            35.7.3.4.7.3. Strand end tails shall not be trimmed flush with the surface of the
            rope immediately adjacent to the full tucks. This applies to all types of fiber rope
            and both eye and short splices. For fiber rope, the tail shall project at least six (6)
            rope diameters beyond the last full tuck. Where a projecting tail interferes with
            the use of the sling, the tail shall be tapered and spliced into the body of the rope
            using at least two (2) additional tucks (which shall require a tail length of
            approximately six (6) rope diameters beyond the last full tuck).
            35.7.3.4.7.4. Fiber rope slings shall have a minimum clear length of rope between
            eye splices equal to 10 times the rope diameter.
            35.7.3.4.7.5. For all eye splices, the eye shall be sized to provide an included
            angle of not greater than 60 degrees at the splice when the eye is placed over the
            load or support.
            35.7.3.4.7.6. Only clamps specifically designed for fiber ropes shall be used for
            splicing.
            35.7.3.4.7.7. Knots shall not be used in lieu of splices.
        35.7.3.4.8. Fiber rope slings shall not be used if end attachments that contact the rope
        have sharp edges or projections.
        35.7.3.4.9. Natural and synthetic fiber rope slings shall be removed from service if
        any of the following conditions are present:
            35.7.3.4.9.1. Abnormal wear.
            35.7.3.4.9.2. Powdered fiber between strands.
            35.7.3.4.9.3. Broken or cut fibers.
            35.7.3.4.9.4. Variations in size or roundness of strands.
            35.7.3.4.9.5. Discoloration or rotting.
            35.7.3.4.9.6. Distortion of hardware in the sling.
        35.7.3.4.10. Only new rope shall be used to make fiber rope slings. Use of repaired
        or reconditioned fiber rope slings is prohibited.
     35.7.3.5. Synthetic Web Slings.
        35.7.3.5.1. Prior to use, all new and repaired synthetic web slings shall be proof
        tested to 200 percent of rated capacity. Note: Written proof test certification is not
        required for new synthetic rope slings manufactured IAW ASME B30.9, Slings, and
        not used to lift nuclear or critical loads.
 710                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          35.7.3.5.2. Synthetic webbing shall be of uniform thickness and width, and selvage
          edges shall not be split from the webbing‘s width.
          35.7.3.5.3. Fittings shall be:
              35.7.3.5.3.1. Of a minimum breaking strength equal to that of the sling.
              35.7.3.5.3.2. Free of all sharp edges that could damage the webbing.
          35.7.3.5.4. Stitching shall be the only method used to attach end fittings to webbing
          and to form eyes. The thread shall have an even pattern and contain a sufficient
          number of stitches to develop the full breaking strength of the sling.
          35.7.3.5.5. Except for required proof tests, synthetic web slings illustrated in Figure
          35.20 shall not be used with loads in excess of rated capacities specified in Table
          35.20 through Table 35.22 Slings not included in these tables shall be used only IAW
          the manufacturer‘s recommendations.
          35.7.3.5.6. When synthetic web slings are used, the following precautions shall be
          taken:
              35.7.3.5.6.1. Nylon web slings shall not be used where acid or phenolic fumes,
              vapors, sprays, mists or liquids are present.
              35.7.3.5.6.2. Polyester and polypropylene web slings shall not be used where
              caustic fumes, vapors, sprays, mists or liquids of acids are present.
              35.7.3.5.6.3. Web slings with aluminum fittings shall not be used where caustic
              fumes, vapors, sprays, mists or liquids are present.
          35.7.3.5.7. Synthetic web slings of polyester and nylon shall not be used at
          temperatures in excess of 180o F. Polypropylene web slings shall not be used at
          temperatures in excess of 200o F.
          35.7.3.5.8. Slings, including webbing and fittings, with temporary or makeshift
          repairs shall not be used.
          35.7.3.5.9. Synthetic web slings shall be removed from service if any of the
          following conditions are present:
              35.7.3.5.9.1. Damage from acid or caustic materials.
              35.7.3.5.9.2. Melting or charring of any part of sling surface.
              35.7.3.5.9.3. Snags, punctures, tears or cuts.
              35.7.3.5.9.4. Broken or worn stitches.
              35.7.3.5.9.5. Distortion of fittings.
          35.7.3.5.10. When not in use, slings shall be stored in clean, dry areas that will
          protect the sling materials.
35.8. Overhead, Gantry, and Underhung Cranes and Monorail Systems. This paragraph
outlines requirements for overhead and gantry cranes, including top-running single or multiple
girder bridge with top-running trolley hoists, top-running single-girder bridge with underhung
hoists and monorails/underhung cranes and others having the same fundamental characteristics.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      711



Hoist requirements of paragraph 35.6 are applicable to this chapter. Hoist requirements of this
chapter also apply to hoists used as components of cranes or monorail systems.
   35.8.1. Hazards. The most serious injury potential from cranes and monorails is caused by
   loads contacting personnel. Bruises, lacerations, pinching and fractures are associated with
   loading, unloading and load transporting operations. Common operator errors include:
       35.8.1.1. Striking personnel or objects with moving loads.
       35.8.1.2. Personnel falling from equipment.
       35.8.1.3. Dropping or slipping loads, usually caused by improper hitching or slinging.
       35.8.1.4. Personnel not wearing required PPE, such as hard hats, gloves, safety-toe shoes
       and eye protection.
       35.8.1.5. Overloading.
       35.8.1.6. Obstruction to free passage of load.
       35.8.1.7. Misuse of equipment.
       35.8.1.8. Inadvertent movement of equipment or loads.
       35.8.1.9. Failure to use available safety devices such as brakes, locks and warning
       signals.
       35.8.1.10. Failure to detect equipment deficiencies or malfunctions.
       35.8.1.11. Acceptance of ―minor‖ deficiencies, which can develop into major or critical
       deficiencies.
       35.8.1.12. Deviation from approved procedures.
       35.8.1.13. Improper and insufficient training.
   35.8.2. Requirements.
       35.8.2.1. Acquisition.
          35.8.2.1.1. All new overhead and gantry cranes constructed and installed on or after
          31 August 1971 will meet ANSI/ASME B30.2, Overhead and Gantry Cranes (Top
          Running Bridge, Single or Multiple Girder, Top Running Trolley Hoist), and B30.11,
          Monorails and Underhung Cranes. Cranes constructed before 31 August 1971 shall
          be modified to conform to these design specifications, unless a qualified person can
          show the crane cannot feasibly or economically be altered and substantially complies
          with requirements of this standard. Contracts for procurement of overhead and gantry
          cranes shall mandate compliance with CMAA 70, Specification for Top Running
          Bridge and Gantry Type Multiple Girder Electric Overhead Traveling Cranes, or
          CMAA 74, Specification for Top Running and Under Running Single Girder Electric
          Overhead Cranes Utilizing Under Running Trolley Hoist, as applicable, and
          appropriate ANSI/ASME B30 series standards. Note: Nuclear-certified hoists must
          also meet requirements in AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria
          for Nuclear Weapon Systems.
712                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.8.2.1.2. Hazards shall be identified by a System Safety Analysis, MIL-STD-882,
         DoD Standard Practice for System Safety, or commercial equivalent. The procuring
         activity shall specify the required analyses, such as preliminary hazard analysis or
         operating hazard analysis. The results of these analyses shall be included in
         applicable contract deliverable documents.
      35.8.2.2. General.
         35.8.2.2.1. Cranes may be modified and re-rated, if the modifications and the
         supporting structures are checked thoroughly by a qualified engineer or the
         equipment manufacturer. The crane shall be tested IAW paragraph 35.8.2.7. The new
         rated capacity shall be displayed on the crane or hoist.
         35.8.2.2.2. The rated capacity of the crane shall be plainly marked on each side of the
         crane. If the crane has more than one hoisting unit, each unit shall have its rated
         capacity marked on it or its load block, and this marking shall be clearly visible from
         the floor or ground.
         35.8.2.2.3. A minimum clearance of three (3) inches overhead and two (2) inches
         laterally shall be maintained between crane and obstructions.
         35.8.2.2.4. Where passageways or walkways are provided, obstructions shall not be
         placed so the safety of personnel is jeopardized by movements of the crane.
         35.8.2.2.5. The general arrangement of the cab and location of control and protective
         equipment shall be such that all operating handles are within convenient reach of the
         operator when facing the area served by the load hook or while facing the direction of
         travel of the cab. The arrangement shall allow the operator a full view of the load
         hook in all positions.
         35.8.2.2.6. Pendant and cab hoist controls for trolley and bridge movement shall use
         compass points (north, south, east and west) as the preferred identification whenever
         possible.
         35.8.2.2.7. Hoists utilizing synchronous controls for multiple point lifting
         movements shall be of failsafe design to preclude inadvertent operation caused by
         malfunctions of selector switches, power failure or improper sequencing of controls.
         35.8.2.2.8. Access to the cab and bridge walkway shall be by a conveniently placed
         fixed ladder, stairs or platform requiring no step over any gap exceeding 12 inches.
         Fixed ladders shall be designed and installed IAW ANSI A14.3, For Ladders - Fixed
         - Safety Requirements, and 29 CFR 1910.27, Fixed Ladders. Also, refer to Chapter
         7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings and Holes, Fixed Industrial
         Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, for specific ladder requirements.
         35.8.2.2.9. A carbon dioxide or dry chemical (or equivalent) fire extinguisher rated at
         least 10 BC shall be kept in the cab.
         35.8.2.2.10. Pendant control boxes and fixed control stations shall be constructed to
         prevent electrical shock and be clearly and legibly marked for identification of
         functions.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      713



        35.8.2.2.11. Except for floor-operated cranes, a gong, buzzer or other effective
        warning signal shall be provided for each power traveling crane.
        35.8.2.2.12. The hoist of all electric traveling cranes shall have an over-travel limit
        switch in the hoisting direction.
        35.8.2.2.13. Emergency descent means shall be provided on all crane cabs. Rope
        hand line is not acceptable. Only approved controlled descent devices shall be used.
        35.8.2.2.14. Crane operators shall not be placed in situations dangerous to life, health
        or which may pose safety hazards.
        35.8.2.2.15. Lift eyes or lift points used to attach slings, clevis, shackles or hooks
        shall be constructed of forged or alloy steel. Rebar steel shall not be permitted as
        attach points for any load.
        35.8.2.2.16. Monorail Hoists. Monorail hoists shall not be used to move objects by
        pulling side-ways, unless designed for that purpose. Each trolley frame shall be
        safeguarded against spreading. Monorail track and track supports shall be installed
        IAW ANSI/ASME B30.11, Monorails and Underhung Cranes, and capable of safely
        carrying intended loads. Rail stops shall be provided at ends of the monorail track and
        will extend at least as high as the radius of the wheels. At switches, turntables and
        transfer tables, automatic bumpers shall drop into position to prevent the trolley
        running off open ends of fixed and movable track if not properly lined up with each
        other. Conversely, the track shall be interlocked with the bumpers so the track cannot
        move until rail stops are in position.
        35.8.2.2.17. Refer to paragraph 35.11 for information on hoisting equipment, such as
        sheaves, ropes and equalizers.
     35.8.2.3. Qualification of Operators. Cranes shall be operated only by properly trained
     and qualified personnel or trainees under the direct supervision of a qualified
     trainer/instructor as designated by the appropriate supervisor. The operator shall be
     familiar with all operating controls of the hoist and be instructed in operations to be
     performed. Instructions shall include warnings on the hoist, manufacturer‘s instructions
     and requirements in this paragraph and paragraph 35.8.2.4 below.
        35.8.2.3.1. Cab-Operated and Pulpit-Operated Equipment.
            35.8.2.3.1.1. Operators shall be qualified by military Air Force specialty training,
            training from a qualified person or instructor, or provide satisfactory evidence of
            prior qualification and experience. Qualification shall be limited to the specific
            type equipment for which examined.
            35.8.2.3.1.2. Operators shall meet the following minimum physical qualifications
            of ANSI/ASME B30.5., Mobile and Locomotive Cranes (5-3.1.2: Qualifications
            for Operators):
                35.8.2.3.1.2.1. Have vision of at least 20/30 in one eye, and 20/50 in the
                other, with or without corrective lenses.
                35.8.2.3.1.2.2. Be able to distinguish red, green and yellow, regardless of
714                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                position of colors, if color differentiation is required for operation.
                35.8.2.3.1.2.3. Test for ordinary conversation in one ear, with or without a
                hearing aid to ensure there is adequate hearing for a specific operation.
                35.8.2.3.1.2.4. Evidence of physical defect, or emotional instability which
                could render the operator a hazard to themselves or others, or which, in the
                opinion of the examiner or supervisor, could interfere with the operator‘s safe
                performance, may be sufficient cause for disqualification. In such cases,
                specialized clinical or medical judgments and tests may be required. Note: A
                history of epilepsy or a disabling heart condition may be sufficient reason for
                disqualification, upon recommendation from proper medical authority.
             35.8.2.3.1.3. Potential operator trainees shall have good depth perception, field of
             vision, reaction time, manual dexterity or coordination and no tendencies to
             dizziness or similar undesirable characteristics. Physical defects such as loss of
             arm, hand, leg, foot or gross loss of function thereof shall be considered as cause
             for denial of acceptance into an entry level training program for operators.
         35.8.2.3.2. Floor-Operated Equipment.
             35.8.2.3.2.1. Operators shall pass a practical operating examination administered
             by a qualified operator or instructor.
             35.8.2.3.2.2. Qualification shall be limited to the specific type equipment for
             which examined.
      35.8.2.4. Safe Operations.
         35.8.2.4.1. Cab-Operated and Pulpit-Operated Equipment.
             35.8.2.4.1.1. Equipment shall only be operated only by:
                35.8.2.4.1.1.1. Qualified person.
                35.8.2.4.1.1.2. Trainees under the direct supervision of a qualified person.
                35.8.2.4.1.1.3. Maintenance        and   test   personnel,   when   necessary   in
                performance of their duties.
                35.8.2.4.1.1.4. Qualified inspectors.
             35.8.2.4.1.2. No one, other than personnel specified above, will enter a cab or
             pulpit, except for maintainers and supervisors whose duties require them to do so,
             and then only when performing their duties and with the knowledge of the
             operator or appointed person.
         35.8.2.4.2. Floor-Operated Equipment. Equipment shall only be operated by:
             35.8.2.4.2.1. Qualified person.
             35.8.2.4.2.2. Trainees under the direct supervision of a qualified person.
             35.8.2.4.2.3. Maintenance and test personnel, when it is necessary in the
             performance of their duties.
             35.8.2.4.2.4. Qualified inspectors.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       715



        35.8.2.4.3. Remote-Operated or Automatic Equipment. Remote control or automatic
        equipment involves a wide variety of service requirements and conditions. Each
        installation shall be carefully analyzed and the operation reviewed at least monthly
        for the first six (6) months to determine whether paragraph 35.8.2.4.1 or 35.8.2.4.2
        will apply.
        35.8.2.4.4. Operating Practices.
           35.8.2.4.4.1. Operators shall not divert their attention while actually engaged in
           operating the equipment.
           35.8.2.4.4.2. An operator shall not operate equipment when physically or
           mentally unfit.
           35.8.2.4.4.3. The operator will respond to signals only from the person directing
           the lift or a designated signal person, but will obey a stop signal at all times.
           35.8.2.4.4.4. Each operator shall be held directly responsible for the safe
           operation of the equipment. When safety is in doubt, the operator will stop and
           refuse to handle loads until safety has been ensured.
           35.8.2.4.4.5. A warning signal, if required, shall be sounded each time before
           traveling and intermittently during travel, particularly when approaching
           personnel.
           35.8.2.4.4.6. Before leaving the equipment unattended, the operator will lower
           the load to the ground, place controls in the ―OFF‖ position, and open the main
           line switch of the equipment.
           35.8.2.4.4.7. If the operator finds the main or emergency switch open (off) when
           starting on duty, he or she will not close it (turn it on) until making certain no one
           is on or about the equipment. If there is a warning tag on the main switch or the
           switch is locked out, only the supervisor or person placing the tag or lock shall
           remove it as prescribed in Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and
           Tagout).
           35.8.2.4.4.8. Before closing the main switch, the operator shall ensure all
           controllers are in the ―OFF‖ position.
           35.8.2.4.4.9. If power goes off during operation, the operator will immediately
           move all controllers to the ―OFF‖ position.
           35.8.2.4.4.10. The operator shall be familiar with the equipment and its proper
           care. If adjustments or repairs are necessary (or any damage is observed) the
           operator shall report it promptly to the appointed person and notify the next
           operator of the deficiencies when changing shifts. The results of the above shall
           be carefully recorded in the logbook, in full detail, and shall be dated and signed.
           35.8.2.4.4.11. Contacts with stops or other equipment shall be made with extreme
           caution and only after all persons on or below equipment are aware of the action.
           35.8.2.4.4.12. Before departing the work area, operators of outdoor cranes shall
           secure them to prevent inadvertent movement.
716                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.8.2.4.4.13. When a wind-indicating alarm is given, the bridge on outside
         cranes shall be anchored.
         35.8.2.4.4.14. Before performing any maintenance work, the operator or
         maintainer will lock the main switch in the open position. Refer to Chapter 21
         for proper lockout/tagout procedures.
         35.8.2.4.4.15. All controls shall be tested by the operator when beginning a new
         shift except when an operation is in progress. If any controls do not operate
         properly, they shall be adjusted or repaired before operations begin. Refer to
         Chapter 21 for proper lockout/tagout procedures.
      35.8.2.4.5. Handling the Load.
         35.8.2.4.5.1. Equipment shall not be loaded beyond rated capacity except for tests
         IAW paragraph 35.8.2.7.2.
         35.8.2.4.5.2. When attaching the load, ensure:
             35.8.2.4.5.2.1. Hoist chain or hoist rope is free from kinks or twists and not
             wrapped around the load.
             35.8.2.4.5.2.2. Load is attached to load hook by slings or other approved
             devices.
             35.8.2.4.5.2.3. Care is taken to ensure sling clears all obstacles.
             35.8.2.4.5.2.4. Slings or other approved devices are seated properly in the
             hook saddle before operation.
         35.8.2.4.5.3. When moving the load:
             35.8.2.4.5.3.1. Appointed person directing the lift shall ensure the load is
             secured and properly balanced in the sling or lifting device before lifting more
             than a few inches.
             35.8.2.4.5.3.2. Before starting to lift, check that:
               35.8.2.4.5.3.2.1. Hoist rope or chain is not kinked or twisted.
               35.8.2.4.5.3.2.2. Multiple part lines are not twisted around each other.
               35.8.2.4.5.3.2.3. The hook is brought over the load in a way that prevents
               swinging.
               35.8.2.4.5.3.2.4. The rope is seated in drum grooves and sheaves, if there is
               or has been a slack rope condition.
             35.8.2.4.5.3.3. Tag lines shall be used on all free swinging loads.
         35.8.2.4.5.4. During hoisting, care shall be taken that:
             35.8.2.4.5.4.1. There is no sudden acceleration or deceleration of the moving
             load.
             35.8.2.4.5.4.2. Load does not contact any obstructions.
             35.8.2.4.5.4.3. Equipment is not used for side pulls except when specifically
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    717



               authorized by a qualified person who has determined the suitability of the
               equipment.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.4. The operator does not hoist, lower or travel while anyone is on
               the load or hook unless specifically recommended by the manufacturer,
               approved by MAJCOM, DRU or FOA, and so indicated on a permanent name
               plate attached to the hoist. Refer to paragraph 35.11.7 and 29 CFR 1926.1400,
               Cranes and Derricks in Construction, for additional guidance.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.5. The operator does not carry loads over personnel.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.6. The operator tests the brakes each time a load is handled by
               raising the load two (2) inches above floor or ground level and applying the
               brakes.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.7. The load is not lowered beyond two (2) full wraps of rope
               remain on the hoisting drum. (Exception: One wrap may remain on drum if a
               lower limit device is provided.) Refer to ANSI/ASME B30.2., Overhead and
               Gantry Cranes (Top Running Bridge, Single or Multiple Girder, Top Running
               Trolley Hoist), for additional guidance.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.8. When two (2) or more cranes are used to lift one load, one
               designated person shall be responsible for the operation. He or she shall
               analyze the operation and instruct all personnel involved in proper
               positioning, rigging of load and movements to be made.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.9. The operator shall not leave his/her position at the controls
               while the load is suspended.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.10. A warning signal shall be given when starting the equipment
               and when the load or hook approaches near personnel.
               35.8.2.4.5.4.11. Appropriate clearance shall be maintained between electrical
               power sources and any part of the crane. Refer to paragraph 35.9.2.3.39 for
               specific guidance.
        35.8.2.4.6. Signals and Instruction. Signals to the operator shall be IAW Figure
        35.21 Voice communication equipment (telephone, radio or equivalent) shall be fully
        operational when used. Signals and instructions shall be distinct at all times. Hand
        signals, as illustrated in Figure 35.21, shall be conspicuously posted on or
        immediately near all cranes.
        35.8.2.4.7. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
           35.8.2.4.7.1. Protective helmets shall be worn if falling objects or moving
           equipment pose a hazard.
           35.8.2.4.7.2. Safety-toe shoes shall be worn by all personnel when a foot hazard
           exists.
           35.8.2.4.7.3. Protective safety goggles shall be worn when eye hazards, such as
           work-generated dirt, dust, or other airborne particles are present.
718                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             35.8.2.4.7.4. Gloves shall be worn when hooking, unhooking, loading, handling
             tag lines or unloading operations, and to protect hands from punctures, severe
             cuts, lacerations and abrasions.
             35.8.2.4.7.5. Before using any PPE, refer to JSA guidance in paragraph 1.5 and
             Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
         35.8.2.4.8. Miscellaneous Requirements.
             35.8.2.4.8.1. Ladders and Footwalks.
                 35.8.2.4.8.1.1. Workers shall keep hands unencumbered while using ladders.
                 35.8.2.4.8.1.2. Articles too large to be carried in pockets or belts shall be
                 lifted and lowered by hand line.
                 35.8.2.4.8.1.3. Footwalks shall be kept free of loose tools, parts or other
                 tripping hazards.
             35.8.2.4.8.2. Cabs.
                 35.8.2.4.8.2.1. Necessary clothing and personal belongings shall be stored so
                 they do not interfere with access or operation.
                 35.8.2.4.8.2.2. Tools shall be stored in approved tool boxes. Wastes shall be
                 disposed of in appropriate containers. No loose articles shall be left in or about
                 the cab.
             35.8.2.4.8.3. Fire Extinguishers. Supervisors shall ensure operators are familiar
             with the operation and care of fire extinguishers provided. Refer to paragraph
             35.8.2.2.9 for specific guidance.
      35.8.2.5. Inspections.
         35.8.2.5.1. Frequent. This inspection will include the items in paragraph 35.6.3.5.1,
         as applicable, and the following:
             35.8.2.5.1.1. The track and its support for signs of weakness, wear or
             misalignment.
             35.8.2.5.1.2. Tanks, valves, pumps, lines and other parts of air or hydraulic
             systems for leakage.
         35.8.2.5.2. Periodic. This inspection shall include requirements in paragraphs
         35.6.3.5.2 and 35.8.2.5.1, as applicable, plus the following:
             35.8.2.5.2.1. Deformed, cracked or corroded members.
             35.8.2.5.2.2. Worn, cracked or distorted parts, such as pins, bearings, wheels,
             shafts, gears, rollers, locking and clamping devices, bumpers, switch baffles,
             interlock bolts and trolley stops.
             35.8.2.5.2.3. Worn drive wheels and/or tires. Note: For suspended powered
             monorail or overhead gantry systems, inspect the following in addition to
             requirements above:
                 35.8.2.5.2.3.1. Power rails for misalignment at all splices, switches and rail-
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       719



               end joints.
               35.8.2.5.2.3.2. All rail hangers for security.
               35.8.2.5.2.3.3. Idlers at switches. Clean paths and lubricate as necessary.
               35.8.2.5.2.3.4. Switches throughout rail travel for alignment.
            35.8.2.5.2.4. See paragraph 35.8.2.7.3 for additional requirements for nuclear
            loads.
     35.8.2.6. Maintenance.
        35.8.2.6.1. Preventive Maintenance.
            35.8.2.6.1.1. The using organization shall establish a preventive maintenance
            program based on the manufacturer‘s recommendations. If manufacturer‘s
            instructions cannot be obtained, the using organization shall contact the Air Force
            equipment item manager for assistance. Preventive maintenance shall be
            documented on AFTO Form 95 or AFTO Form 244, or MAJCOM or locally
            devised paper or automated system IAW paragraph 35.1.1, as appropriate. These
            records shall be maintained for the life of the equipment at a location determined
            by the user.
            35.8.2.6.1.2. All replacement parts shall be obtained from the original equipment
            manufacturer or a manufacturer-approved source.
        35.8.2.6.2. Maintenance Procedures.
            35.8.2.6.2.1. The following precautions shall be taken before adjustments and
            repairs are started:
               35.8.2.6.2.1.1. Movable equipment shall be moved to a location where it will
               cause the least interference with other moving equipment and operations in
               the area.
               35.8.2.6.2.1.2. All controllers shall be placed at the ―OFF‖ position.
               35.8.2.6.2.1.3. If electrically powered, the main or emergency switch shall be
               locked in an open (off) position except for tests. An AF Form 983, Danger –
               Equipment Lockout Tag, shall be placed on the main switch. Refer to
               Chapter 21 for specific guidance on lockout/tagout procedures.
               35.8.2.6.2.1.4. Where other moving units are in operation on the same
               runways or monorail track, rail stops or other suitable means shall be provided
               to prevent interference with the idle equipment.
               35.8.2.6.2.1.5. Where temporary protective rail stops are not possible or
               practical, a signal person shall observe the approach of an active unit and warn
               the operator before reaching an unsafe distance from the idle unit.
            35.8.2.6.2.2. Equipment not readily moved from its operating location can be
            inspected and maintained at the site, providing precautions to protect inspection
            and maintenance personnel.
720                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             35.8.2.6.2.3. After adjustments and repairs, the equipment shall not be operated
             until all guards are reinstalled, safety devices reactivated and tools and
             maintenance equipment removed. Lockout/tagout devices shall only be removed
             by the supervisor or person who attached them.
         35.8.2.6.3. Adjustments and Repairs.
             35.8.2.6.3.1. The using agency shall ensure any unsafe conditions disclosed by
             inspection are corrected before operation of the crane or monorail system is
             resumed. Adjustments and repairs shall be done only by qualified personnel.
             35.8.2.6.3.2. Adjustments shall be made to ensure correct functioning of all
             components such as:
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.1. Control systems.
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.2. All operating mechanisms.
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.3. Limit switches.
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.4. Drive wheels, squaring shafts, couplings, roller chain drives,
                 bumpers and stops.
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.5. Interlocks, crossovers, track switches and track-openers.
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.6. Collector shoes or wheel limit switches, electrical control
                 systems, pushbutton stations or controllers.
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.7. Brakes, hoist mechanisms, hydraulic units, hydraulic or
                 pneumatic valves and controls.
                 35.8.2.6.3.2.8. Power sources.
             35.8.2.6.3.3. Repairs or replacements shall be provided promptly as needed for
             safe operation such as:
                 35.8.2.6.3.3.1. Hoist mechanisms showing defects as in paragraph 35.6.3.5.
                 35.8.2.6.3.3.2. Hooks showing damage as in paragraph 35.11.5.
                 35.8.2.6.3.3.3. Damage to components listed in paragraph 35.8.2.6.3.2, which
                 constitute a safety hazard.
                 35.8.2.6.3.3.4. Load attachment chains and rope slings showing defects.
                 35.8.2.6.3.3.5. All critical parts which are cracked, broken, bent or
                 excessively worn.
                 35.8.2.6.3.3.6. Dirty pendant control stations and illegible function labels.
         35.8.2.6.4. Rope Maintenance. Refer to paragraph 35.11.2.3.
         35.8.2.6.5. Rope Replacement. Refer to paragraph 35.11.2.4.
      35.8.2.7. Testing.
         35.8.2.7.1. Operational Tests.
             35.8.2.7.1.1. Prior to use, all new, reinstalled, altered, repaired and modified
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       721



           cranes and cranes not used within the preceding 12 months shall be operationally
           tested by a qualified person. The operational test shall consist of operating all
           functions of the hoist under a no-load condition to test all hoist functions
           including hoisting and lowering, operation of brakes, testing of all limit, locking,
           safety devices and:
               35.8.2.7.1.1.1. Trolley travel.
               35.8.2.7.1.1.2. Bridge travel.
               35.8.2.7.1.1.3. Interlocking mechanism, track switches, drop sections and lift
               sections.
           35.8.2.7.1.2. The trip-setting of hoist limit switches shall be determined by tests
           with an empty hook traveling in increasing speeds up to the maximum speed. The
           limit switch actuating mechanism shall be located to trip the switch under all
           conditions, in sufficient time to prevent contact of hook or load block with any
           part of trolley.
           35.8.2.7.1.3. Hoist limit switch.
               35.8.2.7.1.3.1. At the beginning of each operator shift, during each periodic
               maintenance, whenever a malfunction is suspected, or after unusually heavy
               use, the operator or maintainer will check the upper-limit switch under no
               load, with the block ―inched‖ into the limit switch or run in at slow speed. If
               the switch does not operate properly, the operator will immediately notify the
               operation supervisor.
               35.8.2.7.1.3.2. The hoist limit switch which controls the upper limit of travel
               of the load block shall never be used as an operating control.
        35.8.2.7.2. Load Tests. All new cranes or cranes with altered, replaced or repaired
        load suspension parts shall be load tested prior to use at not less than 100 percent or
        more than 125 percent of rated load of the equipment, unless otherwise recommended
        by the manufacturer. The test shall be conducted as follows:
           35.8.2.7.2.1. Hoist the test load a distance to assure load is supported by the crane
           and held by hoist brake(s). Refer to paragraph 35.6.3.7.2 for hoist test.
           35.8.2.7.2.2. Transport test load by the trolley or carrier for the full length of the
           bridge.
           35.8.2.7.2.3. Transport the test load by the bridge for the full length of the
           runway in one direction with trolley or carrier as close to the extreme right-hand
           end of the crane as practical and in the other direction with trolley or carrier as
           close to the left-hand end of the crane as practical. When cranes operate on more
           than two (2) runways (multiple-truck cranes), the crane will also transport the test
           load the full length of the runway with the trolley or carrier positioned at each
           intermediate end truck.
           35.8.2.7.2.4. For monorail systems, follow paragraph 35.8.2.7.2.1 for the hoist
           test and transport test load by the carrier for the full length of the monorail
 722                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


              system.
              35.8.2.7.2.5. On hoists incorporating overload devices, a load test shall be
              accomplished with a test load of least 100 percent of rated capacity, after which
              the overload device shall be tested.
              35.8.2.7.2.6. Test weights for load testing shall be tagged or marked indicating
              total weight in pounds and owner or agency identification number. Rebar steel
              shall not be used for test weight lift points.
          35.8.2.7.3. For nuclear-certified hoists, perform tests as stated in paragraphs
          35.8.2.7.1 and 35.8.2.7.2 and annually thereafter at not less than 100 percent or more
          than 125 percent of rated capacity. Users may perform annual tests in conjunction
          with one of the two semiannual inspections outlined in paragraph 35.8.2.5.2.
          Exception: The annual load test may be performed as either a static or dynamic test
          as determined by a qualified person.
       35.8.2.8. Historical Records. A written, dated and signed record of all periodic
       inspections, repairs and tests shall be maintained indefinitely at a location determined by
       the user. Refer to paragraph 35.1.1 concerning use of paper forms and automated
       systems.
35.9. Mobile and Locomotive Cranes.
   35.9.1. Hazards.
       35.9.1.1. One of the greatest hazards with mobile crane operations is electrocution from
       equipment contacting energized electric lines.
       35.9.1.2. Other hazards include overloading; side loading; rope or hydraulic failure;
       striking people or objects with moving loads or movable parts of the crane; dropping or
       slipping of the load due to improper hitching or slinging; and slipping or falling from
       equipment.
   35.9.2. Requirements.
       35.9.2.1. Acquisition.
          35.9.2.1.1. All crawler, locomotive and truck cranes shall meet design specifications,
          characteristics, and rules of ANSI/ASME B30.5, Mobile and Locomotive Cranes.
          35.9.2.1.2. All new mobile hydraulic cranes constructed and used on or after 25
          January 1982 shall meet ANSI/ASME B30.5. Equipment manufactured prior to 25
          January 1982, and still in replacement codes A through J, need not be modified or
          retrofitted to conform to this standard. General design considerations which shall be
          included in procurement documents include:
              35.9.2.1.2.1. Load Ratings and Charts. A substantial and durable rating chart with
              clearly legible letters and figures shall be securely fixed to the crane cab in a
              location easily visible to the operator while seated at the control station. A
              duplicate load rating chart (legible from the ground) shall also be provided on the
              outside of the crane. The load rating chart for truck cranes shall list loads for the
              crane operating both with and without counterweights.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     723



           35.9.2.1.2.2. Two-Blocking Prevention. A two-blocking damage preventive
           feature shall be provided on telescoping boom cranes to prevent damage to the
           hoist rope or other machine components when hoisting the load, extending the
           boom or lowering the boom on a crane with a stationary hoist mounted to the rear
           of the boom hinge.
           35.9.2.1.2.3. Boom Angle Indicator. A boom angle indicator shall be provided on
           all cranes.
           35.9.2.1.2.4. Overload Protection. Devices such as ―Load Moment Indicators‖
           are designed to alarm the operator and de-energize the crane when attempting to
           lift a load beyond the crane‘s capabilities. Although these devices are of minimal
           value in routine base-level Air Force operations, they may be of value in
           construction where loads may not be defined or identified or not properly released
           from its transporter. The user must evaluate anticipated use of the crane to
           determine the need for such a device.
           35.9.2.1.2.5. Color Coding for Strike Hazard. Parts of crane cabs that extend
           beyond the main chassis when rotated shall be color coded yellow and black on
           the lower areas to highlight the strike hazard to ground personnel. Colors shall be
           reflective for night operations.
           35.9.2.1.2.6. Guarding of Machinery. Exposed moving parts such as gears, set
           screws, projecting keys, chains, chain sprockets and reciprocating parts (a hazard
           to personnel) shall be guarded.
           35.9.2.1.2.7. Unguarded Machinery. Some crane hazards, such as rotating
           equipment or holes, cannot be mechanically safeguarded. Personnel will exercise
           extreme care when exposed to unguarded rotating equipment or holes. Such
           conditions shall be clearly marked with appropriate warning decals.
           35.9.2.1.2.8. Main Switch. If the mobile crane is electrically powered and
           incorporates a main or master switch, the switch shall be designed to be locked in
           the open or ―OFF‖ position.
           35.9.2.1.2.9. Operator Protection. Cranes shall be designed to protect operators
           from falling objects, swinging loads and cable failures. Cranes that are operated in
           inclement weather, shall protect the operator from the weather.
           35.9.2.1.2.10. Warning. An audible warning device shall be provided when
           hoisting operations or moving equipment might endanger personnel in the work
           area. The device control shall be within easy reach of the operator.
           35.9.2.1.2.11. Warning Sign. A permanent sign shall be posted in the cab of the
           crane in full view of the operator. This sign will read: ―DANGER HIGH
           VOLTAGE, Do Not Operate Within 10 Feet of Electric Power Lines.‖ If
           equipment is operated in the vicinity of power lines, installation of a proximity
           device shall be considered.
           35.9.2.1.2.12. Night Operations. Cranes operated during darkness shall have
           clearance lights installed. Working areas shall be illuminated so the designated
724                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             signal person, loads, rigging, obstructions, etc., are readily visible.
             35.9.2.1.2.13. Man-Rated Cranes. Man-rated cranes shall be approved prior to
             acquisition or use. Users will coordinate purchase with the installation safety staff
             and submit the following for review (see 29 CFR 1926.1400, Cranes and
             Derricks in Construction, for additional information):
                 35.9.2.1.2.13.1. Crane make, model, year and present modifications if
                 applicable.
                 35.9.2.1.2.13.2. Present safety devices, limit switches, dead-man controls,
                 control lowering capabilities, outriggers if applicable, etc.
                 35.9.2.1.2.13.3. Past major overhaul or repairs and dates of rated load tests.
                 35.9.2.1.2.13.4. Proposed method of use and working environment.
                 35.9.2.1.2.13.5. Proposed work cage or basket, attachment points and
                 methods of attachment for personnel.
                 35.9.2.1.2.13.6. If necessary, illustrated drawings or photographs.
      35.9.2.2. Qualification of Operators. Mobile cranes shall be operated only by designated,
      qualified operators with a valid AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency, or by persons
      in training under the direct supervision of a designated operator. Exception: Operators
      of Air Force special purpose vehicle/truck cranes shall be licensed IAW AFI 24-301,
      Vehicle Operations, in lieu of AF Form 483. No other personnel will enter a crane cab
      except for oilers, supervisors and qualified inspectors whose duties require cab entry. A
      list of qualified crane operators shall be kept by the using organization and appropriate
      entries shall be made in the individual‘s training records.
         35.9.2.2.1. Crawler, Locomotive, Truck and Mobile Hydraulic Cranes.
             35.9.2.2.1.1. Prospective operators shall pass a written examination containing
             the safety requirements of this chapter, TO 36C-1-5, Sixty Rules on Safety—
             Operation of Power Cranes and Excavators, and a practical operating
             examination, developed by the using activity, to demonstrate task-qualification to
             operate the crane safely.
             35.9.2.2.1.2. Operators shall meet the following minimum physical qualifications
             of ANSI/ASME B30.5., Mobile and Locomotive Cranes (5-3.1.2, Qualifications
             for Operators), and these physical qualifications must be clearly identified by the
             supervisor to the examining AF physician:
                 35.9.2.2.1.2.1. Have vision of at least 20/30 in one eye, and 20/50 in the
                 other, with or without corrective lenses.
                 35.9.2.2.1.2.2. Be able to distinguish red, green and yellow, regardless of
                 position of colors, if color differentiation is required for operation.
                 35.9.2.2.1.2.3. Test for ordinary conversation in one ear, with or without a
                 hearing aid, to ensure hearing is adequate for a specific operation.
                 35.9.2.2.1.2.4. Have sufficient strength, endurance, agility, coordination and
                 speed of reaction to meet the demands of equipment operation.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           725



                35.9.2.2.1.2.5. Evidence of physical defect, or emotional instability which
                could render the operator a hazard to herself, or himself or others, or, in the
                opinion of the examiner or supervisor, could interfere with the operator‘s safe
                performance, may be sufficient cause for disqualification. In such cases
                specialized clinical or medical judgments and tests may be required. Any
                medical condition that places the worker at risk of sudden incapacitation may
                be sufficient reason for medical disqualification in the interest of safety, e.g., a
                history of epilepsy or a disabling heart condition.
                35.9.2.2.1.2.6. Operator trainees shall have good depth perception, field of
                vision, reaction time, manual dexterity or coordination and no tendencies to
                dizziness or similar undesirable characteristics. Physical defects such as loss
                of arm, hand, leg, foot or gross loss of function thereof may be considered as
                cause for denial of entry into a crane training program.
     35.9.2.3. Safe Operating Practices.
        35.9.2.3.1. If operators must divert their attention while operating the crane, they
        shall stop the crane.
        35.9.2.3.2. The operator shall respond to signals only from the designated signal
        person, but will obey an emergency stop signal from anyone at any time.
        35.9.2.3.3. Operators are responsible for operations under their direct control.
        Whenever there is any doubt as to safety, the operator will stop and refuse to handle
        loads until safety has been ensured.
        35.9.2.3.4. The operator will sound or give an audible warning signal each time
        before traveling (backing), and when approaching workers or other congested areas.
        The signal may be mechanical (automatic) or oral.
        35.9.2.3.5. Before leaving the crane unattended, the operator will:
            35.9.2.3.5.1. Lower any suspended load, bucket, lifting magnet, or other device
            to the ground.
            35.9.2.3.5.2. Disengage clutch.
            35.9.2.3.5.3. Set travel, swing, boom brakes, and other locking devices.
            35.9.2.3.5.4. Put controls in the ―OFF‖ or neutral position.
            35.9.2.3.5.5. Stop the engine.
            35.9.2.3.5.6. Secure crane, i.e., chocks, brakes, etc., against accidental travel.
        35.9.2.3.6. During periods of non-use, high winds, or weather alerts, the operator will
        lower the boom to ground level, a resting platform or otherwise ensure the boom is
        secure against movement from wind or other forces.
        35.9.2.3.7. Operators will not close a switch or start the engine until any warning tag
        or lock has been removed by the supervisor or person who originally attached the
        device.
726                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      35.9.2.3.8. Operators will ensure all controls are in the ―OFF‖ position and all
      personnel are clear of the crane before closing a switch or starting the engine.
      35.9.2.3.9. If power fails during operation, operators will:
         35.9.2.3.9.1. If practical, lower the suspended load to the ground under brake
         control. If not practical to land the load, shut down the crane and completely rope
         off or barricade the area around the suspended load.
         35.9.2.3.9.2. Set all brakes and locking devices.
         35.9.2.3.9.3. Move all clutch or other power controls to the ―OFF‖ position.
      35.9.2.3.10. Operators shall be familiar with the equipment and its proper care. If
      adjustments or repairs are necessary or any damage is known, the operator will report
      them promptly to the supervisor and record them on AFTO Form 244, AFTO Form
      95, or MAJCOM or locally devised paper or automated system IAW paragraph
      35.1.1, as appropriate.
      35.9.2.3.11. All controls shall be tested by the operator at the start of a new shift.
      Controls that do not operate properly shall be adjusted or repaired before continuing
      operation.
      35.9.2.3.12. Booms being assembled or disassembled on the ground, with or without
      support of the boom harness, shall be securely blocked to prevent dropping the boom
      and boom sections.
      35.9.2.3.13. To prevent injury to personnel, booms being manually telescoped shall
      be carefully repositioned prior to pinning.
      35.9.2.3.14. No crane shall be loaded beyond its rated capacity, except for test
      purposes IAW paragraph 35.9.2.6 Weight of all loads shall be determined before
      lifting.
      35.9.2.3.15. When attaching the load, the hoist rope shall not be wrapped around the
      load, but shall be attached to the hook by slings or other approved devices of proper
      capacity.
      35.9.2.3.16. When moving the load, the supervisor directing the lift will ensure:
         35.9.2.3.16.1. The crane is level and, where necessary, outriggers are in place and
         blocked IAW paragraph 35.9.2.3.24.
         35.9.2.3.16.2. The load is well secured and properly balanced in the sling or
         lifting device before hoisted more than a few inches.
      35.9.2.3.17. Before lifting, the operator will ensure:
         35.9.2.3.17.1. The hoist rope is not kinked;
         35.9.2.3.17.2. Multiple part lines are not twisted around each other;
         35.9.2.3.17.3. The hook is brought over the load in a manner to prevent swinging;
         and
         35.9.2.3.17.4. If there is a slack rope condition, the rope is properly seated on the
         drum and in the sheaves as the load is applied.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      727



        35.9.2.3.18. During lifting, the operator will ensure there is no sudden acceleration or
        deceleration of the moving load; and the load and boom do not contact any
        obstructions.
        35.9.2.3.19. Side loading of booms shall be limited to freely suspended loads. Cranes
        shall not be used for dragging loads sideways.
        35.9.2.3.20. The crane shall not be operated while anyone is on the load or hook.
        MAJCOM, DRU, or FOA approved man-rated cranes and work cages are permitted.
        Refer to paragraph 35.9.2.3.50 for hoisting and lowering personnel requirements.
        35.9.2.3.21. The operator shall not carry or swing load over personnel.
        35.9.2.3.22. On truck mounted cranes, loads shall not be lifted over the front area of
        the truck unless specifically allowed by manufacturer‘s operating instructions.
        35.9.2.3.23. The operator will test the brakes each time a load is handled by raising
        the load a few inches and applying brakes.
        35.9.2.3.24. Outriggers shall be used when the load at a particular radius exceeds the
        rated load without outriggers as given by the crane manufacturer. When floats are
        used, they shall be securely attached to outriggers. Wood blocks used to support
        outriggers shall be strong enough to prevent crushing, free of defects and of sufficient
        size to prevent shifting or toppling of the crane under load.
        35.9.2.3.25. Neither the load nor boom shall be lowered to less than two (2) full
        wraps of rope on their respective drums.
        35.9.2.3.26. When two (2) or more cranes are used to lift one load, one designated
        person shall be responsible for the operation. He or she will analyze the operation and
        instruct all personnel involved in proper positioning, rigging the load, and movements
        to be made.
        35.9.2.3.27. Before any crane is moved to a new job site, the route of travel shall be
        checked to determine that adequate clearances exist along the entire route. This
        survey shall be conducted by the vehicle heavy equipment supervisor and crane
        operator. The empty hook shall be secured to prohibit swinging, and the boom shall
        be lowered to the boom rest or travel position. A red cloth or warning flag, at least 12
        inches square, or a warning light shall be carried at the end of any boom that extends
        more than 4 feet beyond the truck platform. At night or during periods of reduced
        visibility, a warning light shall be used. The superstructure shall be secured to
        prohibit rotation except when there is an operator in the cab to ensure proper boom
        clearances around tight spots and corners. Additional vehicles shall be used to warn
        other motorists if the crane boom or wide load poses a hazard to the front or rear.
        35.9.2.3.28. A designated supervisor shall be responsible for determining and
        controlling safety before traveling a crane with a load. Decisions such as position of
        load, boom location, ground support, travel route and speed of movement shall be
        IAW his/her determination. Specified tire pressures shall be maintained. The boom
        shall be carried in line with the direction of motion, sudden starts and stops shall be
        avoided and tag or restraint lines shall be used to minimize swinging of the load.
728                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      35.9.2.3.29. A crane shall never travel with the boom so high that it may bounce
      back over the cab. Consult the manufacturer‘s operation manual.
      35.9.2.3.30. Avoid sudden starts and stops when rotating the crane. Rotational speed
      shall be such that the load can be controlled. A tag line shall be used when rotation of
      the load is hazardous.
      35.9.2.3.31. The boom hoist pawl or other positive locking device shall be engaged
      on rope supported booms if the crane is operated at a fixed radius.
      35.9.2.3.32. Ropes shall not be handled on a winch head without knowledge of the
      operator. The operator shall be within convenient reach of the power unit control
      lever while a winch head is being used.
      35.9.2.3.33. On cranes having a powered telescoping boom, the hook is drawn closer
      to the boom head when hoisting, extending the boom or lowering a boom on
      machines where the winch is mounted stationary to the rear of the boom hinge. If the
      machine is not equipped with a―two-blocking preventive feature,‖ rope shall be let-
      out from the load hoist mechanism so the hook will not be jammed (two-blocked)
      against the boom head. The jammed condition may cause overload and result in rope
      or other component failure.
      35.9.2.3.34. Telescoping boom sections shall be telescoped in the manner and
      sequence specified by the manufacturer.
      35.9.2.3.35. While holding the load:
         35.9.2.3.35.1. The operator shall not leave his/her position at the controls while
         load is suspended.
         35.9.2.3.35.2. . No person shall be permitted to stand or pass under a suspended
         load.
         35.9.2.3.35.3. If the load hoist mechanism is not equipped to hold the drum from
         rotating in the lowering direction, without further action by the operator, loads
         shall not remain suspended for a considerable length of time.
      35.9.2.3.36. Standard hand signals to the operator shall be IAW Figure 35.21, unless
      voice communication equipment is used. The operator shall not respond to any signal
      unless he or she clearly understands it.
      35.9.2.3.37. If necessary to give instructions to the operator, other than those
      provided herein, all crane motions shall be stopped.
      35.9.2.3.38. All crane controls shall be placed in the ―OFF‖ position and the main
      switch opened when equipment is not in use.
      35.9.2.3.39. When operating near electric power lines, refer to 29 CFR 1926.1400,
      Cranes and Derricks in Construction, and:
         35.9.2.3.39.1. Overhead power lines shall be considered energized unless
         definitely known by the operator and supervisor that lines are not energized.
         35.9.2.3.39.2. No part of a crane or its load shall be permitted within 10 feet of
         any energized electrical power line. When this is impractical, the power line shall
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         729



           be de-energized and visibly grounded, or a different route of travel used.
           35.9.2.3.39.3. For lines rated over 50 kilovolts (kV), minimum clearance shall be
           10 feet plus 0.4 inch for each kV over 50 kV, or twice the length of the line
           insulator, but never less than 10 feet.
           35.9.2.3.39.4. A permanent sign shall be posted in the cab of the equipment in
           full view of the operator. This sign will read: ―DANGER -- HIGH VOLTAGE, Do
           Not Operate Within 10 Feet of Electric Power Lines.‖
           35.9.2.3.39.5. A dielectric boom shield and insulated link installed in the lifting
           line at the hook provide some protection against electric shock if the crane
           accidentally contacts energized electric lines. Proximity warning devices are not
           fail safe and shall be used in addition to, not as a replacement for, other controls.
           Even though shields, insulated hooks and proximity warning devices are used,
           clearance criteria in paragraphs 35.9.2.3.39.2 and 35.9.2.3.39.3 shall be followed.
           35.9.2.3.39.6. If the boom of a rubber-tired crane contacts an electric power line,
           it is probable the entire crane may be energized since the rubber tires may insulate
           the crane from the ground. When this happens, operators shall not attempt to
           leave the crane until they are certain that the line is clear of the crane or the line is
           de-energized. To make such an attempt might result in electrocution since the
           operator‘s body would complete the circuit to ground as he or she climbed or
           stepped from the crane. If the fuel tank ignites, or if it is impossible for the
           operator to remain on the crane, he or she shall jump, after first making sure all
           body parts are clear of the crane before their feet touch the ground.
        35.9.2.3.40. Where motorized or pedestrian traffic is anticipated or encountered, the
        working area shall be blocked off or controlled to keep people and vehicles away.
        Note: Operators of mobile cranes will stay clear of walls, overhead trestles, columns
        and other structures that pose electrical, crushing, burn hazards, etc.
        35.9.2.3.41. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Appropriate head protection shall
        be worn by crane crew personnel to protect against falling objects or impact type
        hazards. Safety-toe shoes shall be worn by all materials handling and construction
        personnel involved in crane operations. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective
        Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
        35.9.2.3.42. Rail clamps shall not be used to restrain tipping of a locomotive crane.
        Load weight shall be kept within the limit of the crane without using these clamps.
        35.9.2.3.43. Cranes shall not be operated without the full amount of ballast or
        counterweight in place, unless specifically authorized by the manufacturer‘s
        instructions.
        35.9.2.3.44. Clothing and personal belongings shall be kept away from operator
        controls. Tools, oil cans, extra fuses and other necessary articles shall be stored in the
        tool box and not permitted to lie loose in or about the cab.
        35.9.2.3.45. Firm, level (within one percent grade) footing under the crane is
        essential to prevent tipping or sinking as loads are lifted and swung. Where necessary,
730                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         this footing shall be provided by timbers, cribbing or other structural material
         sufficient to distribute the load and provide a level surface. Outriggers (on cranes so
         equipped) shall be fully extended per manufacturer‘s specifications.
         35.9.2.3.46. When small, portable containers are used to refuel engines, they shall be
         approved safety containers with an automatic closing cap and flame arrester. The
         crane shall not be refueled when engine is running or hot.
         35.9.2.3.47. A fire extinguisher rated for Class B and C fires shall be provided at the
         operator‘s station. Operating and maintenance personnel shall be familiar with the
         care and use of the extinguisher.
         35.9.2.3.48. Locomotive cranes shall cease operation when railway cars on adjacent
         tracks are in motion.
         35.9.2.3.49. All hooks and hook blocks shall be permanently marked with the
         manufacturer‘s identification. Load hooks shall be equipped with safety latches.
         35.9.2.3.50. The use of a crane or derrick to hoist workers on a personnel platform is
         prohibited except when conventional means of reaching the worksite, such as a
         personnel hoist, ladder, stair-way, aerial lift, elevating work platform or scaffold,
         would be more hazardous or is not possible. (see paragraph 35.11.7).
         35.9.2.3.51. The area in the rear, in which someone could be struck or caught by the
         rotating super-structure, shall be barricaded. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.1400, Cranes and
         Derricks in Construction, for additional guidance.
         35.9.2.3.52. Refer to paragraph 35.11.2 for information on wire rope inspection,
         replacement and maintenance.
      35.9.2.4. Inspections.
         35.9.2.4.1. Frequent. The inspection will include:
             35.9.2.4.1.1. Checking hydraulic hoses, fittings and tubing, particularly hydraulic
             hoses which flex in normal operation. The following are reasons for repair or
             replacement:
                 35.9.2.4.1.1.1. Evidence of hydraulic oil leakage at the surface of the flexible
                 hose or excessive leakage at its junction with metal end couplings.
                 35.9.2.4.1.1.2. Blistering or abnormal deformation to the outer covering of
                 hydraulic hose.
                 35.9.2.4.1.1.3. Hydraulic oil leakage at any threaded or clamped joint that
                 cannot be eliminated by normal tightening or recommended procedures.
                 35.9.2.4.1.1.4. Evidence of excessive abrasion or scrubbing on outer surface
                 of a hose, rigid tube or hydraulic fitting. Action shall be taken immediately to
                 eliminate or correct the cause or otherwise protect the components from
                 additional damage.
             35.9.2.4.1.2. Checking pumps and motors. The following are reasons for
             replacement or repair:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    731



              35.9.2.4.1.2.1. Loose bolts or fasteners.
              35.9.2.4.1.2.2. Leaks at joints between sections.
              35.9.2.4.1.2.3. Shaft seal leaks.
              35.9.2.4.1.2.4. Unusual noises or vibration.
              35.9.2.4.1.2.5. Loss of operating speed.
              35.9.2.4.1.2.6. Suspected overheating of hydraulic oil.
              35.9.2.4.1.2.7. Inability to hold proper pressure.
           35.9.2.4.1.3. Checking valves. The following are reasons for replacement or
           repair:
              35.9.2.4.1.3.1. Cracks in valve housing.
              35.9.2.4.1.3.2. Improper return of spool to neutral position.
              35.9.2.4.1.3.3. Leaks at spools or joints.
              35.9.2.4.1.3.4. Sticking spools.
              35.9.2.4.1.3.5. Failure of relief valves to attain correct pressure setting
              specified by manufacturer.
           35.9.2.4.1.4. Checking cylinders. The following are reasons for replacement or
           repair:
              35.9.2.4.1.4.1. Drifting caused by oil leaking across piston.
              35.9.2.4.1.4.2. Rod seals leaking.
              35.9.2.4.1.4.3. Leaks at welded joints.
              35.9.2.4.1.4.4. Scored, nicked or dented cylinder rods.
              35.9.2.4.1.4.5. Dented case (barrel).
              35.9.2.4.1.4.6. Loose or deformed rod eyes or connecting joints.
           35.9.2.4.1.5. Checking filters. Rubber particles on the filter element may indicate
           hose, ―O‖ ring or other rubber component deterioration. Metal chips or pieces on
           the filter may denote failure in pumps, motors or cylinders. Further checking shall
           be done as necessary to determine origin of the problem before corrective action
           is taken.
           35.9.2.4.1.6. Checking control mechanisms for maladjustment.
        35.9.2.4.2. Periodic. The periodic inspection will include inspecting items in
        paragraph 35.9.2.4.1 and the following:
           35.9.2.4.2.1. Vehicle control mechanisms for excessive wear of components and
           contamination by lubricants or other foreign matter.
           35.9.2.4.2.2. Installed safety devices for proper operation.
732                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             35.9.2.4.2.3. Crane load hooks if cracked, have any visibly apparent bend or twist
             from the plane of the unbent hook (original manufacturer or baseline
             measurements), any distortion causing an increase in throat opening of five (5)
             percent, not to exceed ¼ inch (or as recommended by the manufacturer), or any
             wear exceeding 10 percent (or as recommended by the hook manufacturer) of the
             original manufacturer or baseline section dimension of the hook. Refer to
             paragraphs 35.9.2.5.2.4 and 35.11.5.1 for additional guidance.
             35.9.2.4.2.4. Rope     reeving    for   compliance     with    crane    manufacturer‘s
             recommendation.
             35.9.2.4.2.5. Electrical apparatus for malfunctions,            signs   of   excessive
             deterioration or dirt and moisture accumulation.
             35.9.2.4.2.6. Deformed, cracked or corroded members in crane structure and
             boom.
             35.9.2.4.2.7. Loose bolts or rivets.
             35.9.2.4.2.8. Cracked or worn sheaves and drums.
             35.9.2.4.2.9. Worn, cracked or distorted parts such as pins, bearings, shafts,
             gears, rollers and locking devices.
             35.9.2.4.2.10. Excessive wear on brake and clutch system parts, linings, pawls
             and ratchets.
             35.9.2.4.2.11. Any inaccuracies of load and check boom angle indicators and
             other indicators over their full range.
             35.9.2.4.2.12. Proper performance of gasoline, diesel, electric or other power
             plants.
             35.9.2.4.2.13. Excessive wear of chain-drive sprockets and excessive chain
             stretch.
             35.9.2.4.2.14. Cracks in hooks by magnetic particle or other crack detecting
             process.
             35.9.2.4.2.15. Proper operation of travel steering, braking and locking devices.
             35.9.2.4.2.16. Worn or damaged tires.
             35.9.2.4.2.17. Rust on hydraulic rods and control valves.
             35.9.2.4.2.18. Cleanliness of oil filters and oil strainers.
             35.9.2.4.2.19. For nuclear-certified mobile hydraulic cranes, also see paragraph
             35.9.2.6.2.2.
         35.9.2.4.3. Inspection Records. Inspection records shall be maintained IAW AFI 23-
         302, Vehicle Management, or other appropriate directives. Location of inspection
         records shall be determined by the user.
      35.9.2.5. Maintenance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                  733



        35.9.2.5.1. Maintenance Procedure. The Vehicle Fleet Manager or Vehicle
        Management Superintendent shall establish a preventive maintenance program based
        on this standard and crane manufacturers‘ recommendations. Crane maintenance
        records shall be maintained IAW AFI 23-302 or other appropriate directives.
           35.9.2.5.1.1. The following precautions shall be taken before making adjustments
           and repairs on a crane:
               35.9.2.5.1.1.1. Position the crane where it will cause the least interference
               with other equipment or operations.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.2. Use appropriate lockout/tagout procedures on crane energy
               controls as prescribed by Chapter 21.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.3. Lower the boom to the ground if possible or secure it against
               dropping.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.4. Lower the lower load block to ground or secure it against
               dropping.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.5. Stop the power plant.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.6. Disengage and lockout all starting controls.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.7. Turn off all controls and engage the pawls.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.8. Relieve hydraulic oil pressure from all hydraulic systems
               before loosening or removing hydraulic components.
               35.9.2.5.1.1.9. Retract all hydraulic cylinders used for boom hoisting and
               boom telescoping.
           35.9.2.5.1.2. Warning tags and locks shall only be placed or removed by the
           maintenance supervisor or his/her representative.
        35.9.2.5.2. Adjustments and Repairs: After adjustments and repairs have been made,
        the crane shall not be operated until all guards have been reinstalled, trapped air
        removed from hydraulic system, safety devices reactivated and maintenance
        equipment removed.
           35.9.2.5.2.1. Any unsafe conditions disclosed by inspection IAW paragraph
           35.9.2.4 shall be corrected before the crane is operated again. Adjustments and
           repairs shall be done only by qualified personnel.
           35.9.2.5.2.2. Adjustments to operating mechanisms, safety devices, control
           systems and power plants shall be maintained to ensure correct functioning.
           35.9.2.5.2.3. All critical parts of operating mechanisms or crane structures that
           are cracked, broken, bent, corroded or excessively worn shall be repaired or
           promptly replaced to ensure safe operation.
           35.9.2.5.2.4. Crane hooks showing defects described in paragraph 35.9.2.4.2 or
           35.11.5.1 will be removed from service and repaired or replaced. Repairs by
           welding or reshaping are not recommended. If such repairs are attempted, they
734                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             shall only be done by a qualified person and the hook shall be load tested IAW
             paragraph 35.9.2.6.1 before further use. Note 1: Hooks repaired by welding or
             reshaping are not authorized on nuclear-certified hoists or lifting equipment used
             to lift critical loads. Note 2: Painted hooks shall not be used on nuclear-certified
             hoists or lifting equipment or equipment used to lift critical loads.
             35.9.2.5.2.5. All replacement parts or repairs shall have at least the original
             manufacturer‘s design safety factor.
         35.9.2.5.3. Lubrication:
             35.9.2.5.3.1. All moving parts of the crane, where lubrication is specified, shall
             be regularly lubricated IAW manufacturer‘s recommendations or TO procedures
             as to points and frequency of lubrication, maintenance of lubricant levels and
             types of lubricant.
             35.9.2.5.3.2. Cranes not equipped for automatic or remote lubrication shall be
             stationary when lubricated, with all controls in the ―OFF‖ position, the main
             power control switch, if equipped, locked out or ―OFF‖ and pawls applied.
      35.9.2.6. Testing.
         35.9.2.6.1. Operational Tests.
             35.9.2.6.1.1. Prior to initial use, all new cranes shall be tested by the
             manufacturer and verified by the Vehicle Management Flight Commander or
             Vehicle Fleet Manager to ensure compliance with operational requirements of this
             paragraph, including the following functions:
                 35.9.2.6.1.1.1. Load lifting and lowering mechanisms.
                 35.9.2.6.1.1.2. Boom lifting and lowering mechanisms.
                 35.9.2.6.1.1.3. Boom extension and retraction mechanism.
                 35.9.2.6.1.1.4. Swinging mechanism.
                 35.9.2.6.1.1.5. Travel mechanism.
                 35.9.2.6.1.1.6. Safety devices.
             35.9.2.6.1.2. Where the crane is not supplied by a single manufacturer,
             operational tests shall be conducted by a qualified person at final assembly.
         35.9.2.6.2. Load Tests.
             35.9.2.6.2.1. Prior to being returned to service and initial use, extensively
             repaired or modified cranes shall be load tested at not less than 100 percent or
             more than 110 percent of rated capacity by a qualified person. When complete,
             stencil the load test date on the lower boom assembly per 29 CFR 1926.1400.
             35.9.2.6.2.2. For nuclear-certified hydraulic mobile cranes, perform an annual
             load test at not less than 100 percent or more than 110 percent of the rated
             capacity. Perform this test in con-junction with the annual inspection. When
             complete, stencil the load test date on the lower boom assembly as per TO 36-1-
             191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        735



              35.9.2.6.2.3. Test loads shall not exceed 110 percent of the rated capacity at any
              selected working radius.
              35.9.2.6.2.4. If re-rating is necessary, crawler, truck and wheel-mounted mobile
              cranes shall be tested IAW Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc. (SAE)
              Recommended Practices, Crane Load Stability Test Code J765. Locomotive
              cranes shall be re-rated IAW manufacturers‘ specifications. A copy of the re-
              rating test report shall be provided to Vehicle Management and Analysis and a
              copy posted in the crane cab.
              35.9.2.6.2.5. Cranes shall not be re-rated in excess of original load ratings unless
              such rating changes are approved by the crane manufacturer.
              35.9.2.6.2.6. Test weights for load testing shall be tagged or adequately marked
              indicating total weight in pounds and owner or agency identification number.
              Rebar steel shall not be used for test weight lift points.
          35.9.2.6.3. A record of all tests shall be maintained indefinitely at a location
          determined by the user.
35.10. Inspection, Maintenance and Testing of Derricks.
   35.10.1. Inspection.
      35.10.1.1. Frequent. The inspection will include checking:
          35.10.1.1.1. All control mechanisms — adjustment, wear and lubrication.
          35.10.1.1.2. All chords and lacing.
          35.10.1.1.3. Tension in guys.
          35.10.1.1.4. Plumb of the mast.
          35.10.1.1.5. Leakage of air or deterioration of hoses, seals and rams of hydraulic
          systems.
          35.10.1.1.6. Derrick hooks— cracks and bends, wear and deformations, etc. Hooks
          with cracks or distortion of more than 5 percent of normal throat opening, not to
          exceed ¼ inch (or as recommended by the manufacturer), or with any apparent bend
          or twist from the plane from the original baseline measurements shall be removed
          from service and repaired or replaced. Refer to paragraph 35.11.5.1.1.
          35.10.1.1.7. Rope    reeving    —     noncompliance    with   derrick   manufacturer‘s
          recommendations.
          35.10.1.1.8. Hoist brakes, clutches and operating levers — proper functioning before
          beginning operations.
          35.10.1.1.9. Electrical apparatus — malfunction and signs of excessive deterioration,
          dirt and moisture accumulation.
      35.10.1.2. Periodic. The inspection will include items from paragraph 35.10.1.1 and the
      following:
          35.10.1.2.1. Structural members, for deformations, cracks and corrosion.
736                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.10.1.2.2. Bolts or rivets, for tightness.
         35.10.1.2.3. Parts such as pins, bearings, shafts, gears, sheaves, drums, rollers and
         locking and clamping devices for wear, cracks and distortion.
         35.10.1.2.4. Gudgeon pin, for cracks, wear and distortion each time derrick is
         erected.
         35.10.1.2.5. Power plants, for proper performance and compliance with applicable
         safety requirements.
         35.10.1.2.6. Hooks, for cracks and bends, wear and deformations, etc. Hooks having
         more than 5 percent of normal throat opening or any apparent bend or twist from the
         plane from the original baseline measurements shall be replaced. Refer to paragraph
         35.11.5.1.1 and Figure 35.22.
         35.10.1.2.7. Foundation or supports, for continued ability to sustain imposed loads.
         35.10.1.2.8. Derrick electrical pendant and control box, for proper grounding.
  35.10.2. Testing.
      35.10.2.1. All new derricks shall have the manufacturer‘s certification that all required
      testing has been accomplished. Prior to initial use, all modified and altered derricks shall
      be operationally tested to ensure compliance with this standard, including:
         35.10.2.1.1. Load hoisting and lowering.
         35.10.2.1.2. Boom up and down.
         35.10.2.1.3. Swing.
         35.10.2.1.4. Operation of clutches and brakes of hoist.
      35.10.2.2. All anchorages shall be approved by the appointed personnel. Rock and
      hairpin anchorages may require special testing.
  35.10.3. Maintenance.
      35.10.3.1. Preventive Maintenance.
         35.10.3.1.1. A preventive maintenance program based on the derrick manufacturer‘s
         recommendations shall be established. Dated and detailed records shall be readily
         available.
         35.10.3.1.2. Replacement parts shall be obtained from the original equipment
         manufacturer.
      35.10.3.2. Maintenance Procedure.
         35.10.3.2.1. The following precautions shall be taken before adjustments and repairs
         are started on a derrick:
             35.10.3.2.1.1. The derrick to be repaired shall be arranged so it will cause the
             least interference with other equipment and operations in the area.
             35.10.3.2.1.2. All hoist drum dogs shall be engaged.
             35.10.3.2.1.3. The main or emergency switch shall be locked in the open (off)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      737



            position if an electric hoist is used. Refer to Chapter 21 for additional
            lockout/tagout requirements.
            35.10.3.2.1.4. Warning signs shall be placed on the derrick and hoist.
            35.10.3.2.1.5. Boom repairs on derricks shall be made when booms are lowered
            and adequately supported or when safely tied off.
            35.10.3.2.1.6. A good communication system shall be set up between the hoist
            operator and the appointed individual in charge of derrick operations before any
            work on the equipment is started.
         35.10.3.2.2. Welding repairs shall be approved by a qualified person.
         35.10.3.2.3. After adjustments and repairs have been made, the derrick shall not be
         operated until all guards have been reinstalled, safety devices reactivated,
         maintenance equipment removed and derrick electrical pendant and control box
         checked for proper grounding.
  35.10.4. Adjustments and Repairs.
     35.10.4.1. Any unsafe conditions disclosed by the inspection and requirements of
     paragraphs 35.10.2 and 35.10.3 shall be corrected before derrick operation is resumed.
     Adjustments shall be maintained to assure correct functioning of components, including:
         35.10.4.1.1. All functional operating mechanisms.
         35.10.4.1.2. Tie-downs or anchorages.
         35.10.4.1.3. Signal system.
         35.10.4.1.4. Brakes and clutches.
         35.10.4.1.5. Power plants.
         35.10.4.1.6. Guys.
     35.10.4.2. Repairs or replacement parts shall be provided promptly as needed for safe
     operation. All replacement and repair parts shall have at least the original safety factor.
         35.10.4.2.1. Hooks showing defects described in paragraph 35.11.5, as shown in
         Figure 35.22, shall be discarded. Repairs by welding or reshaping are not
         recommended. If such repairs are attempted, they shall only be done by a qualified
         person, and the hook tested to load requirements of paragraph 35.10.2.1 before further
         use.
         35.10.4.2.2. All critical parts which are cracked, broken, bent, or excessively worn
         shall be replaced.
         35.10.4.2.3. Pitted or burned electrical contacts shall be corrected only by
         replacement and in sets. Controller parts shall be lubricated as recommended by the
         manufacturer.
  35.10.5. Lubrication.
 738                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       35.10.5.1. All moving parts of the derrick and hoist, for which lubrication is specified
       (including rope and chain), shall be regularly lubricated. Lubricating systems shall be
       checked for proper delivery of lubricant. Follow manufacturer‘s recommendations as to
       points and frequency of lubrication and maintenance of lubricant used.
       35.10.5.2. Machinery shall be stationary while lubricants are being applied unless it is
       equipped for automatic lubrication.
   35.10.6. Rope Inspection, Replacement and Maintenance. Follow criteria outlined in
   paragraph 35.11.2 For rotation-resistant rope, follow rope or equipment manufacturer‘s
   recommendations.
35.11. Related Hoisting Equipment.
   35.11.1. Wire ropes, chains, hooks and related hoisting equipment shall be inspected prior to
   initial use, when repaired and monthly thereafter IAW applicable paragraphs of this chapter.
   Wire ropes, chains and hooks shall be thoroughly inspected monthly. Inspections for each
   item shall be documented on the AFTO Form 95, or other appropriate inspection and
   maintenance form or automated system, and maintained on file for one (1) year. Refer to
   paragraph 35.1.1 Documentation will include the date of the monthly inspection, signature of
   the inspector, an identifier for the equipment inspected, and condition of the equipment.
   Note: A frequent inspection may also be used to document the thorough monthly inspection
   of hooks, chains and wire ropes, provided it includes applicable requirements above and from
   paragraphs 35.11.3, 35.11.4 and 35.11.6.
   35.11.2. Wire Ropes.
       35.11.2.1. Use and Attachment Considerations.
          35.11.2.1.1. The rope or crane manufacturer‘s recommendation shall be followed
          when hoisting ropes are used.
          35.11.2.1.2. Socketing shall be done as specified by the assembly manufacturer.
          35.11.2.1.3. Swaged or compressed fittings shall be applied as recommended by the
          rope or crane manufacturer.
          35.11.2.1.4. Rope shall be secured to the drum as follows:
              35.11.2.1.4.1. Not less than two (2) wraps of rope will remain on the drum when
              the hook is in its extreme lowest position.
              35.11.2.1.4.2. The rope end shall be anchored by a clamp securely attached to the
              drum or by a socket arrangement approved by the crane or rope manufacturer.
              35.11.2.1.4.3. If the crane is dual-reeved with the rope terminated at the
              equalizer, the termination fitting shall be rated to develop 100 percent of the rope
              strength.
          35.11.2.1.5. Rope clips attached with U-bolts shall have the U-bolts on the dead or
          short end of the rope. Spacing and number of clips shall follow the clip
          manufacturer‘s recommendation or Table 35.23 Clips shall be drop-forged steel in all
          sizes manufactured commercially. When a newly installed rope has been in operation
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      739



        for an hour, all nuts on the clip bolts shall be retightened. Refer to Figure 35.23
        through 35.29 and Table 35.23 for additional guidance.
     35.11.2.2. Inspection.
        35.11.2.2.1. Frequent. All running ropes in service shall be visually inspected daily
        or prior to use. The inspection shall be documented on AFTO Form 244 or MAJCOM
        or locally devised paper or automated systems, which includes date of inspection,
        signature of inspector, an identifier for ropes inspected and rope condition. Inspection
        shall be kept on file by the supervisor for a minimum of one year and made readily
        available. Sections of rope normally hidden or difficult to see during inspection or
        maintenance procedures, such as parts passing over equalizer sheaves, shall be given
        close inspection, as these are points most likely to fail. Any degradation in conditions
        described below could result in loss of original strength, shall be carefully noted and
        shall be considered for rejection:
            35.11.2.2.1.1. Reduction of rope diameter below nominal diameter due to loss of
            core support, internal or external corrosion or wear of outside wires. Rope calipers
            and micrometers are normally used to determine changes in wire rope diameters.
            Refer to Figure 35.28 for proper measurement technique.
            35.11.2.2.1.2. Broken outside wires and the degree of distribution or connection
            of such broken wires.
            35.11.2.2.1.3. Worn outside wires.
            35.11.2.2.1.4. Corroded or broken wires at end connections.
            35.11.2.2.1.5. Corroded, cracked, bent, worn or improperly applied end
            connections.
            35.11.2.2.1.6. Severe kinking, crushing, cutting or unstranding.
        35.11.2.2.2. Periodic Inspection. Recommended interval of periodic inspections shall
        be determined by a qualified person, based on such factors as expected rope life as
        determined by experience on the particular installation or similar installations,
        severity of environment, percentage of capacity lifts, frequency rates of operation,
        and exposure to shock loads. Inspections need not be at equal calendar intervals and
        shall be more frequent as the rope approaches the end of its useful life. This
        inspection shall cover the rope‘s entire length and requirements of paragraph
        35.11.2.2.1 Inspections shall be documented on the AFTO Form 95 or MAJCOM or
        locally devised paper or automated systems, as outlined in paragraph 35.6.3.8 Refer
        to paragraph 35.1.1 for additional guidance. The inspection record shall include the
        date of the inspection, signature of the inspector, an identifier for the rope inspected
        and rope condition. The inspection record shall be kept on file by the user for a
        minimum of one year and made readily available. Note: When the rope‘s periodic
        inspection schedule falls within the periodic inspection schedule of the hoist, the rope
        inspection shall be recorded on the periodic inspection documentation specified in
        paragraphs 35.6.3.5.2 and 35.1.1.
740                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.11.2.2.3. All rope idle for a month or more due to shutdown or storage of a hoist
         on which it is installed shall be given a thorough inspection before placed in service.
         Refer to paragraph 35.11.2.4.3 for additional guidance.
      35.11.2.3. Maintenance.
         35.11.2.3.1. Rope shall be stored and handled in a manner which prevents damage or
         deterioration.
         35.11.2.3.2. Unreeling or uncoiling of rope shall be done as recommended by rope
         manufacturer and with extreme care to avoid kinking or inducing twist.
         35.11.2.3.3. Before cutting a rope, seizings shall be placed on each side of where the
         rope is to be cut to prevent unlaying of the strands.
         35.11.2.3.4. During installation, avoid dragging the rope in dirt or around objects
         which will scrape, nick, crush or induce sharp bends in the rope.
         35.11.2.3.5. Rope shall be maintained in a well-lubricated condition. The object of
         rope lubrication is to reduce internal friction and to prevent corrosion. Lubricant
         applied as part of a maintenance program shall be compatible with the original
         lubricant. The rope manufacturer‘s technical guidance/instructions shall be consulted.
         Lubricant applied shall not hinder visual inspection. Sections of rope located over
         sheaves or difficult to see during inspection and maintenance procedures require
         special attention when lubricating the rope. Exception: When used in clean rooms,
         factory lubricant may be removed from stainless steel ropes to prevent contamination.
         35.11.2.3.6. An independent wire-rope or wire-strand core, or other temperature-
         damage resistant core, shall be used wherever there is exposure to temperatures at
         which fiber cores would be damaged.
         35.11.2.3.7. Replacement rope shall be the same size, grade, and construction as the
         original rope furnished by the crane manufacturer, unless otherwise recommended by
         a wire rope manufacturer due to actual working conditions. Refer to paragraphs
         35.11.2.3.4 and 35.11.2.4.4 for additional guidance.
      35.11.2.4. Replacement:
         35.11.2.4.1. Ropes shall be removed from service and replaced when any of the
         following conditions exist:
            35.11.2.4.1.1. In running ropes, six (6) randomly distributed broken wires in one
            lay or three (3) broken wires in one strand in one lay.
            35.11.2.4.1.2. One outer wire broken at the contact point with the core of the
            rope, which has worked its way out of the rope structure and protrudes or loops
            out from the rope structure.
            35.11.2.4.1.3. Wear or scraping of 1/3 the original diameter of outside individual
            wires.
            35.11.2.4.1.4. Kinking, crushing, bird caging, or any other damage resulting in
            distortion of the rope structure, as seen in Figure 35.29
            35.11.2.4.1.5. Evidence of any heat damage or corrosion.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       741



            35.11.2.4.1.6. Reductions from nominal diameter of more than:
                35.11.2.4.1.6.1. One-sixty-fourth (1/64) inch for diameters up to and
                including 5/16 inch.
                35.11.2.4.1.6.2. One-thirty-second (1/32) inch for diameters 3/8 inch to and
                including one-half inch.
                35.11.2.4.1.6.3. Three-sixty-fourths (3/64) inch for diameters 9/16 inch to and
                including three-fourths inch.
                35.11.2.4.1.6.4. One-sixteenth (1/16) inch for diameters 7/8 inch to and
                including one and one-eighth inch.
                35.11.2.4.1.6.5. Three-thirty-seconds (3/32) inch for diameters one and 1/4
                inch to and including one and one-half inch.
                35.11.2.4.1.6.6. In standing ropes, more than two (2) broken wires in one lay
                in sections beyond end connections or more than one broken wire at an end
                connection.
         35.11.2.4.2. Special attention shall be given to the end fastenings. Ropes shall be
         examined at socketed fittings and when two (2) broken wires are found next to this
         point, the rope shall be resocketed. Portions of the rope subjected to reverse bends
         and operation over small diameter sheaves or drums shall be given close attention.
         35.11.2.4.3. A rope which has been in service, but idle for one month or more, shall
         be thoroughly examined before being put back into service. This examination shall be
         for all types of deterioration, particularly corrosion, and shall be performed by a
         designated person, whose approval shall be required for further use of the rope. The
         inspection shall be documented on an AFTO Form 95 or MAJCOM or locally
         devised paper or automated systems, which includes date of inspection, signature of
         inspector, an identifier for ropes inspected and rope condition. The inspection shall be
         kept on file by the user for a minimum of one year and made readily available.
         35.11.2.4.4. All replacement rope shall be of proper size, grade and construction for
         its particular function on the machine. Note: Discarded or repaired rope shall not be
         used for slings.
         35.11.2.4.5. A continuing inspection record shall be maintained to establish a basis
         for judging when to replace wire rope. This record shall cover points of deterioration
         listed in paragraphs 35.11.2.4.1 and 35.11.2.4.2
  35.11.3. Chains.
     35.11.3.1. Welded Link Chain Inspection.
         35.11.3.1.1. Test hoist under load in hoisting and lowering directions and observe
         operation of the chain and sprockets. Ensure chain feeds smoothly into and away
         from sprockets.
742                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         35.11.3.1.2. If chain binds, jumps or is noisy, ensure it is clean and properly
         lubricated. If the trouble persists, inspect chain and mating parts for wear, distortion
         or other damage.
         35.11.3.1.3. Clean the chain for inspection. Examine visually for gouges, nicks, weld
         splatter, corrosion and distorted links. Slacken the chain and move adjacent links to
         one side to inspect for wear at the contact points. If wear is observed, or if stretching
         is suspected, measure the chain according to the hoist manufacturer‘s instructions. If
         instructions are not available, proceed as follows:
             35.11.3.1.3.1. Select an unworn, unstretched length of the chain from the slack
             end.
             35.11.3.1.3.2. Suspend chain vertically under tension and, using a caliper type
             gauge, measure outside length of any convenient number of links, approximately
             12 to 14 inches overall.
             35.11.3.1.3.3. Measure the same number of links in the used sections and
             calculate percentage increase in length. If the used chain exceeds the hoist
             manufacturer‘s recommended length, (or, in the absence of such a
             recommendation, if the chain is 1.5 percent longer than unused chain) replace the
             chain. Do not repair load chain by welding or any other means; this repair is only
             accomplished by the chain manufacturer.
             35.11.3.1.3.4. Install load chain links which pass over hoist load sprocket on edge
             (alternate to those which lie flat in the pockets) with welds away from center of
             the sprocket.
         35.11.3.1.4. Inspect hoist chains, including end connections, for excessive wear,
         twist and distorted links interfering with proper function or stretched beyond
         manufacturer‘s recommendations. Hoist chains inspection intervals and requirements
         shall follow paragraphs 35.6.3.5.1 and 35.6.3.5.2. A thorough inspection of all hoist
         chains shall be made at least once each month. A written report which includes the
         date of the monthly inspection, the signature of the inspector, an identifier for the
         chains inspected and chain condition shall be kept on file by the user for a minimum
         of one year and made readily available.
         35.11.3.1.5. When chain is replaced, mating parts (chain sprockets, guides, stripper)
         shall be disassembled and inspected for wear and replaced if necessary.
         35.11.3.1.6. For non-load bearing drive (slack) chains, inspect for cracks, weld
         splatter, burrs or other damage. Repair or replace as required.
      35.11.3.2. Roller Link Chain Inspection:
         35.11.3.2.1. Test hoist under load in hoisting and lowering directions and observe
         operation of chain and sprockets. Ensure chain feeds smoothly into and away from
         sprockets.
         35.11.3.2.2. If chain binds, jumps or is noisy, ensure it is clean and properly
         lubricated. If the trouble persists, inspect chain and mating parts for wear, distortion
         or other damage.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        743



         35.11.3.2.3. If possible, inspect roller link chain while in the hoist. With hoist
         suspended in normal position, apply a light load of approximately 50 pounds.
            35.11.3.2.3.1. Check chain for elongation following hoist manufacturer‘s
            instruction. In absence of specific instructions, check the chain by determining the
            nominal pitch and measuring a 12-inch section of chain that normally travels over
            the chain sprocket. Using a vernier caliper, check the dimension from the edge of
            one chain pin to the corresponding edge of another pin for the number of pitches
            per foot. If elongation exceeds 1/4 inch in 12 inches, replace the chain. For
            example, a 3/4 inch pitch chain should measure 12 inches over 16 pitches. Reject
            chain if measurement over 16 pitches exceeds 12.25 inches.
            35.11.3.2.3.2. Check chain for twist. Replace the chain if the twist in any 5-foot
            section exceeds 15 degrees.
            35.11.3.2.3.3. Check for camber. Replace chain which has a side bow exceeding
            1/4 inch in any 5-foot section.
         35.11.3.2.4. Inspect the chain more thoroughly by removing chain from hoist and
         cleaning it thoroughly in an acid-free solvent. Then check for the following
         deficiencies:
            35.11.3.2.4.1. Pins turned from their original position.
            35.11.3.2.4.2. Rollers that do not turn freely with light finger pressure.
            35.11.3.2.4.3. Joints that cannot be flexed by easy hand pressure.
            35.11.3.2.4.4. Link plates that are spread open. A visual check of the pin
            extension at free end of chain can determine the amount of spread and the
            condition of the chain.
            35.11.3.2.4.5. Corrosion, pitting or discoloration of chain, which is generally
            indicative of serious impairment.
            35.11.3.2.4.6. Gouges, nicks or weld spatter.
     35.11.3.3. Maintenance. All chain shall be kept clean and free from rust or any coating
     deposit build up and any change in dimensions or reduced flexibility. Excessively dirty
     chain shall be soaked in a clean acid-free solvent and agitated to ensure all joints are free
     from grit and foreign matter. Hand chain normally needs no lubricant. Roller and load
     chain shall be lubricated according to the hoist manufacturer‘s recommendations. In
     absence of recommendations, the chain may be lubricated with a good grade of SAE 20
     or SAE 30 automotive motor oil. Grease shall never be applied to a chain.
  35.11.4. Sheaves and Equalizers.
     35.11.4.1. Sheaves.
         35.11.4.1.1. Sheave grooves shall be smooth and free from surface defects which
         could cause rope damage.
         35.11.4.1.2. Sheave-carrying ropes, which can be momentarily unloaded, shall be
         provided with close-fitting guards or other suitable devices to guide the rope back
744                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         into the groove when the load is applied again. Note: Equalizers where ropes are
         terminated shall be specified to have sufficient adjustment space for block leveling as
         the rope stretches.
         35.11.4.1.3. Sheaves in the bottom block shall be equipped with close-fitting guards
         to prevent ropes from fouling when the block is lying on the ground with loose ropes.
         35.11.4.1.4. Pockets and flanges of sheaves used with hoist chains shall be sized so
         the chain does not catch or bind during operation.
         35.11.4.1.5. All running sheaves shall be equipped with means for lubrication.
         Permanently lubricated, sealed bearings meet this requirement.
         35.11.4.1.6. When chain is replaced, mating parts (chain sprockets, guides, stripper)
         shall be disassembled, inspected for wear and replaced if necessary.
      35.11.4.2. Equalizers.
         35.11.4.2.1. If a load is supported by more than one part of rope, the tension in the
         parts shall be equalized.
         35.11.4.2.2. Equalizers shall be readily accessible for maintenance, lubrication and
         inspection.
  35.11.5. Hooks.
      35.11.5.1. Inspection.
         35.11.5.1.1. Hooks that are cracked, have any visibly apparent bend or twist from the
         plane of the unbent hook (original manufacturer or baseline measurements), any
         distortion causing an increase in throat opening of five (5) percent, not to exceed ¼
         inch (or as recommended by the manufacturer), or any wear exceeding 10 percent (or
         as recommended by the hook manufacturer) of the original manufacturer or baseline
         section dimension of the hook shall be removed from service and repaired or
         replaced. Repairs by welding or reshaping are not recommended as a standard
         practice. If such repairs are attempted, they shall be done by a qualified person and
         the hook shall be tested to the load requirements of paragraph 35.9.2.6.1 before
         further use. Compliance should not preclude the possibility of consulting a qualified
         person when: the equipment has been altered, repaired or modified; the manuals or
         documents supplied by the manufacturer are no longer available; or the manufacturer
         or a successor is no longer in business and the manuals are no longer
         available. However, the purpose of consulting a qualified person shall not be to avoid
         contacting the manufacturer and obtaining the information supplied by the
         manufacturer. If manufacturer's data is not available and a qualified person has not
         determined the hook to be safe, the hook shall be removed from service. Note 1:
         Hooks repaired by welding or reshaping are not authorized on nuclear-certified hoists
         or lifting equipment or equipment used to lift critical loads. Note 2: Painted hooks
         shall not be used on nuclear-certified hoists or lifting equipment. Note 3: The
         manufacturer‘s original specifications shall be used as the baseline. If the original
         specifications cannot be obtained through the manufacturer or item manager, the hook
         can continue to be used, provided the hook has been determined safe for use by a
         qualified individual IAW ANSI/ASME B30.10, Hooks.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      745



        35.11.5.1.2. Hooks shall be examined for the following (See Figure 35.22):
           35.11.5.1.2.1. Distortion such as bending, twisting or increased throat opening.
               35.11.5.1.2.1.1. Any apparent bend or twist from the plane from the original
               measurements.
               35.11.5.1.2.1.2. Any wear exceeding 10 percent (or as recommended by the
               manufacturer) of the original section dimension of the hook or its load pin.
               35.11.5.1.2.1.3. Any distortion causing an increase in throat opening of five
               (5) percent, not to exceed ¼ inch (or as recommended by the manufacturer).
           35.11.5.1.2.2. Cracks, severe nicks or gouges.
           35.11.5.1.2.3. Safety latch engagement and damaged or malfunctioning latch, i.e.,
           any self-locking latch that does not lock or any latch that does not close the
           hook‘s throat.
           35.11.5.1.2.4. Hook attachment and securing means. Hook retaining nuts on
           collar and pins, welds or riveting shall be used to secure the retaining member.
           35.11.5.1.2.5. Lubrication of swivel point.
           35.11.5.1.2.6. Hooks shall not be painted. Unless specifically permitted by TO or
           other technical guidance, Air Force-users are not authorized to paint hooks.
           Hooks received painted by the manufacturer may be used in applications not
           requiring them to be non-destructive inspected. Painted hooks removed from
           service shall be replaced.
           35.11.5.1.2.7. Repairs by welding or reshaping are not recommended as a
           standard practice. If such repairs are attempted, they shall only be accomplished
           by a qualified person, and the hook shall be tested to the load requirements of the
           specific equipment in use. Note: Hooks repaired by welding or reshaping are not
           authorized on nuclear-certified hoists or lifting equipment.
        35.11.5.1.3. Intervals of Inspections. All hooks in service shall be visually inspected
        daily or prior to use. The inspection shall be documented on AFTO Form 244 or
        MAJCOM or locally devised paper or automated system, which includes date of
        inspection, signature of inspector, an identifier for the hooks inspected and hook
        condition. The inspection shall be kept on file by the user for a minimum of one year
        and made readily available. Refer to paragraph 35.1.5.3 for additional guidance.
        Note: If the hook is part of a hoist, the frequent inspection shall be recorded on the
        hoist inspection documentation IAW paragraph 35.6.3.5.1.
        35.11.5.1.4. For nuclear-certified hoist hooks and hooks used in lifting critical loads,
        perform a dye penetrant, magnetic particle, or other suitable nondestructive inspection
        (NDI) on the hook annually, in addition to the above. For nuclear-certified hoist
        hooks, perform the annual NDI in conjunction with one of the two scheduled
        semiannual hoist and crane inspections. Refer to paragraphs 35.6.3.5.2 and 35.8.3.5.2
        for specific guidance. Refer to paragraph 35.6.3.7.4 for additional guidance on critical
        loads. Note: If the hook retaining nut is welded to the hook shank, removal of the
746                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         hook for inspection is not required. In this case, a visual inspection of the inside of the
         block assembly shall be performed. If the block is designed such that disassembly is
         not feasible, this inspection is not required. Refer to Figures 35.22 and 35.30 for
         guidance. Warning: If hook is removed from hoist for NDI, verify that the hook is
         properly reinstalled before use.
      35.11.5.2. Rated Capacity. Rated capacity for a hook, when used as intended, shall be
      equal to other suspension members to which it is attached. When this is not feasible,
      special precautions shall be taken to ensure the hook‘s rated capacity is not exceeded.
      35.11.5.3. Hooks shall not be painted. Unless specifically permitted by TO or other
      technical guidance, Air Force-users are not authorized to paint hooks. Hooks (including
      hooks on slings) received painted by the manufacturer may be used in applications not
      requiring them to be non-destructively inspected. Painted hooks removed from service
      shall be replaced. Note 1: Painted hooks shall not be used on nuclear-certified hoists or
      lifting equipment or equipment used to lift critical loads. Note 2: Hooks with protective
      coatings applied by the manufacturer that do not affect or interfere with NDI may be used
      in applications requiring hook NDI. Note 3: Existing painted hooks may have the paint
      removed for NDI but may not be repainted unless authorized above.
      35.11.5.4. Removable Hooks and Lifting Fixtures. Where operations require removal or
      replacement of hooks and/or lifting fixtures, the lifting capacity of the hooks/lifting
      fixtures shall be marked on the hook/lifting fixture and readily identifiable to the
      hoist/crane operator to prevent overloading the crane or hook/lifting fixture when load
      capacities are different.
  35.11.6. Hydra sets and Load Cells. These devices allow precision placement of heavy loads
  during mating and demating operations. These precision positioners are especially valuable
  when handling critical high value items such as spacecraft payloads or astronautical optics.
  Users of these types of materials handling equipment will develop inspection and testing
  procedures based upon the type of materials lifted.
  35.11.7. Personnel Hoists and Suspended Personnel Platforms. Using a crane or derrick to
  hoist workers on a personnel platform is prohibited except when conventional means of
  reaching the worksite, such as personnel hoist, ladder, stairway, aerial lift, elevating work
  platform or scaffold, would be more hazardous or is not possible. When absolutely necessary
  to hoist personnel, the following shall apply:
      35.11.7.1. Cranes used for personnel hoisting shall have an anti-two blocking device
      incorporated into its design and shall have a power controlled lowering system capable of
      handling rated loads and speeds as specified by the manufacturer. Refer to 29 CFR
      1926.1400 for additional information.
      35.11.7.2. Platforms used to suspend personnel shall be designed and used IAW 29 CFR
      1926.1400 and as follows:
         35.11.7.2.1. Be capable of supporting at least five (5) times the maximum intended
         load (workers and their tools and equipment).
         35.11.7.2.2. Be equipped with a guardrail system including a top rail of 42 inches, a
         midrail and a toe-board and shall be enclosed at least from the toeboard to the midrail.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       747



        The guardrails shall be able to withstand at least 200 pounds applied in any direction.
        A grab rail shall be installed inside the entire perimeter of the platform.
        35.11.7.2.3. Will permit a maximum of four (4) workers to be lifted, and provide
        room for tools and equipment. Each worker shall be considered to weigh 250 pounds.
        35.11.7.2.4. Shall not be used during high winds, thunderstorms or any other adverse
        weather condition which could endanger the workers on the platform.
     35.11.7.3. The lifting bridle, used to suspend the working platform from the crane, shall
     normally consist of four (4) legs attached to ensure stability of the platform. The lifting
     bridle shall be attached by a hook, closed and locked or secured by a shackle with a bolt,
     nut and retaining pin. These bridles and associated rigging shall not be used for other
     purposes when not hoisting personnel.
     35.11.7.4. The total weight of the loaded personnel platform and related rigging (to
     include the load block, ball and wire rope) shall not exceed 50 percent of the rated
     capacity for the radius and configuration of the crane or derrick.
     35.11.7.5. The crane shall be uniformly level within one percent of level grade and
     located on firm footing. If equipped, outriggers shall be fully deployed IAW
     manufacturer‘s specifications.
     35.11.7.6. Requirements for trial lift, inspection and load tests per 29 CFR 1926.1400
     and the following:
        35.11.7.6.1. Trial lifts are required immediately before personnel are lifted. A new
        trial lift shall be performed any time the location or route of the planned lift changes.
        The platform shall be inspected after the trial lift and before lifting personnel.
        35.11.7.6.2. The platform and rigging shall be load tested to 125 percent of the
        platform‘s rated capacity prior to lifting personnel at each job location and after any
        modifications or repairs.
     35.11.7.7. Personnel Safe Work Practices.
        35.11.7.7.1. Workers shall keep all body parts inside the platform during lifts and,
        except when over water, shall wear and secure a safety harness with lanyard to an
        approved attach point within the platform. The safety harness lanyard system must
        prevent a fall of over six (6) feet and the attach point must be capable of supporting
        the fall impact of the worker. Refer to paragraph 13.4.6 for additional fall protection
        guidance.
        35.11.7.7.2. The crane or derrick operator shall remain at the controls when
        personnel are suspended and shall terminate hoisting of personnel at the first sign of a
        potentially dangerous condition.
  35.11.8. Portable Automobile Lifting Devices (PALD).
     35.11.8.1. Each PALD shall be provided with operator‘s instructions. The instructions
     shall specify the proper operating procedures and basic function of the components. The
     instructions shall contain the recommended replacement fluid, maintenance and
     inspection procedures and intervals, as applicable.
 748                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       35.11.8.2. Maintenance. The PALD shall be maintained IAW the product instructions.
       35.11.8.3. Inspection.
           35.11.8.3.1. Visual inspection shall be made before each use of the PALD by
           checking for abnormal conditions, such as cracked welds, leaks and damaged, loose
           or missing parts.
           35.11.8.3.2. Other inspections shall be made per product operating instructions.
           35.11.8.3.3. Each PALD shall be inspected immediately if the lift is believed to have
           been subjected to abnormal load or shock. It is recommended that this inspection be
           made by qualified personnel or a manufacturer‘s or supplier‘s authorized repair
           facility. Note: Supervisors and/or operators should be aware that repair of this
           equipment may require specialized knowledge and facilities.
           35.11.8.3.4. An annual inspection of PALD will be accomplished by qualified
           personnel or by a manufacturer‘s or supplier‘s repair facility. Any defective parts,
           decals or safety labels or signs will be replaced with manufacturer‘s or supplier‘s
           specified parts.

Figure 35.1. Approved Safety Pallet.




Note: The following correspond to the numbers 1 through 7 positioned around the figure.
1. A 4-inch toeboard to prevent tools or small items from falling off.
2. An expanded metal background to protect personnel from moving parts of the forklift.
3. Mitered corners.
4. Handrail on backguard.
5. Safety chains with the top chain 42 inches from the pallet surface and a second chain
approximately midway between the pallet surface and the top chain, to enclose the pallet area.
6. Chains for securing the pallet to the fork truck.
7. Checker plate flooring to prevent slippage of pallet.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        749



Figure 35.2. Extension Forks Used With The Safety Pallet.




Note: Fork extensions may be needed to support larger type safety pallets. A notice to this effect
shall be displayed prominently on the side of the pallet (―Use Fork Extensions‖).

Figure 35.3. High-Lift Truck.




Note: Also known as Counterbalanced Truck, Cantilever Truck, Rider Truck, or Forklift Truck.
 750                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.4. High-Lift Truck.




Note: Also known as a High-Lift Platform Truck.

Figure 35.5. Low-Lift Truck.




Note: Also known as a Low-Lift Platform Truck.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                751



Figure 35.6. Motorized Hand Truck.




Note: Also known as a Pallet Truck.

Figure 35.7. Industrial Tractor.
 752                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.8. Motorized Hand or Rider Truck.




Figure 35.9. Reach Trucks.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012             753



Figure 35.10. Side-Loader Truck.
 754                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.11. Order Picker Truck, High Lift.




Note: Guards required to prevent truck movement, when the operator extends beyond the truck,
are not shown.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                               755



Figure 35.12. Narrow-Aisle Truck (Also known as a Straddle Truck).
 756                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.13. Truck, Straddle, Carry.




Figure 35.14. Truck, Warehouse, Double-Handle Type, 2-Wheel, Solid Rubber Tires.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                            757



Figure 35.15. Truck, Hand, Platform, 4-Wheel.




Figure 35.16. Crane Truck, Warehouse, Electric.
 758                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.17. Crane Truck, Warehouse, Gasoline.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           759



Figure 35.18. Basic Sling Configuration With Vertical Legs.




Notes:
1. Angles 5 degrees or less from the vertical may be considered vertical angles.
2. For slings with legs more than 5 degrees off vertical, the actual angle, as shown in Figure
35.19., must be considered.

Explanation of Symbols: Minimum Diameter of Curvature.
 760                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.19. Sling Configuration With Angled Legs.




Notes:
1. For vertical angles of 5 degrees or less, refer to Figure 35.18.
2. Refer to Figure 35.18. for symbol explanation.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                   761



Figure 35.20. Basic Synthetic Web Sling Configuration.
 762                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.21. Hand Signals for Controlling Overhead and/or Gantry Crane Operations.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                    763



Figure 35.22. Hook Inspection Areas.




Figure 35.23. Right and Wrong Way of Using Cable Clips.
 764                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.24. Proper Method of Installing Cable Clips.




Figure 35.25. Double Base Clamp.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                        765



Figure 35.26. Joining Wire Ropes.




Figure 35.27. Dead-Ending Rope in a Socket.
 766                                                        AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 35.28. Correct and Incorrect Way to Measure Wire Rope.




Figure 35.29. Wire Rope Wear and Damage.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                               767




Figure 35.30. Hook Showing Block Interface (Shank).




Table 35.1. Maximum Safe Working Load ―A‖ Type Alloy Steel Chain Single Vertical
Sling.
     Maximum Safe Working Load ―A‖ Type Alloy Steel Chain Single Vertical Sling
          Single            Double Sling            Triple and Quadruple Sling3
 Chain    Branch           Vertical Angle1                 Vertical Angle1
  Size     Sling    30 deg     45 deg      60 deg  30 deg      45 deg       60 deg
                                           2                               2
(inches)  90 deg         Horizontal Angle                Horizontal Angle
         Loading   (60 deg) (45 deg) (30 deg)     (60 deg)    (45 deg)     (30 deg)
  1/4      3,250      5,650      4,550     3,250       8,400     6,800      4,900
  3/8      6,600     11,400      9,300     6,600      17,000    14,000      9,900
  1/2     11,250     19,500     15,900    11,250      29,000    24,000      17,000
  5/8     16,500     28,500     23,300    16,500      43,000    35,000      24,500
  3/4     23,000     39,800     32,500    23,000      59,500    48,500      34,500
  7/8     28,750     49,800     40,600    28,750      74,500    61,000      43,000
   1      38,750     67,100     54,800    38,750      101,000   82,000      58,000
 768                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


     Maximum Safe Working Load ―A‖ Type Alloy Steel Chain Single Vertical Sling
          Single            Double Sling            Triple and Quadruple Sling3
 Chain    Branch           Vertical Angle1                 Vertical Angle1
  Size     Sling    30 deg     45 deg      60 deg  30 deg      45 deg       60 deg
(inches)  90 deg         Horizontal Angle2               Horizontal Angle2
         Loading   (60 deg) (45 deg) (30 deg)     (60 deg)    (45 deg)     (30 deg)
 1-1/8      44,500      77,000      63,000      44,500      115,500      94,500       66,500
 1-1/4      57,500      99,500      81,300      57,500      149,000      121,500      86,000
 1-3/8      67,000      116,000     94,000      67,000      174,000      141,000      100,500
 1-1/2      80,000      138,000     112,900     80,000      207,000      169,000      119,500
 1-3/4      100,000      172,000      140,000 100,000        258,000     210,000       150,000
Note 1: Rating of multi-leg slings adjusted for angle of loading measured as the included angle
between the inclined leg and the vertical as shown in Figure 35.18.
Note 2: Rating of multi-leg slings adjusted for angle of loading between the inclined leg and the
horizontal plane of the load as shown in Figure 35.19.
Note 3: Quadruple sling rating is the same as triple sling because normal lifting practice may
not distribute load uniformly to all four (4) legs.

Table 35.2. Minimum Allowable Chain Size at Any Point of Link.
      Minimum Allowable Chain Size at Any Point of Link
 Chain Size (inches) Minimum Allowable Chain Size (inches)
        1/4                            13/64
        3/8                            19/64
        1/2                            25/64
        5/8                            31/64
        3/4                            19/32
        7/8                            45/64
         1                             13/16
       1-1/8                           29/32
       1-1/4                             1
       1-3/8                           1-3/32
       1-1/2                           1-3/16
       1-3/4                          1-13/32
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       769




Table 35.3. Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification
Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Fiber Core (FC).
  Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification Improved Plow
                         Steel Grade Rope With Fiber Core (FC)
         Rope                             Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
Diameter Construction            Vertical               Choker            Vertical Basket1
(inches)                     HT     MS        S    HT      MS       S     HT     MS     S
   1/4          6x19         0.49    0.51   0.55    0.37    0.38   0.41   0.99     1.0   1.1
  5/16          6x19         0.76    0.79   0.85    0.57    0.59   0.64    1.5     1.6   1.7
   3/8          6x19         1.1     1.1     1.2    0.80    0.85   0.91    2.1     2.2   2.4
  7/16          6x19         1.4     1.5     1.6     1.1    1.1    1.2     2.9     3.0   3.3
   1/2          6x19         1.8     2.0     2.1     1.4    1.5    1.6     3.7     3.9   4.3
  9/16          6x19         2.3     2.5     2.7     1.7    1.9    2.0     4.6     5.0   5.4
   5/8          6x19         2.8     3.1     3.3     2.1    2.3    2.5     5.6     6.2   6.7
   3/4          6x19         3.9     4.4     4.8     2.9    3.3    3.6     7.8     8.8   9.5
   7/8          6x19         5.1     5.9     6.4     3.9    4.5    4.8    10.0    12.0 13.0
    1           6x19         6.7     7.7     8.4     5.0    5.8    6.3    13.0    15.0 17.0
  1-1/8         6x19         8.4     9.5    10.0     6.3    7.1    7.9    17.0    19.0 21.0
  1-1/4         6x37         9.8     11.0   12.0     7.4    8.3    9.2    20.0    22.0 25.0
  1-3/8         6x37         12.0    13.0   15.0     8.9    10.0   11.0   24.0    27.0 30.0
  1-1/2         6x37         14.0    16.0   15.0    10.0    12.0   13.0   28.0    32.0 35.0
  1-5/8         6x37         16.0    18.0   21.0    12.0    14.0   15.0   33.0    36.0 41.0
  1-3/4         6x37         19.0    21.0   24.0    14.0    16.0   18.0   38.0    43.0 48.0
     2            6x37         25.0 28.0 31.0 18.0 21.0 23.0 49.0 55.0 62.0
Notes:
HT = Hand Tucked Splice and Hidden Tuck Splice.
For hidden tuck splice (IWRC) use values in HT column.
MS = Mechanical Splice.
S = Swaged or Zinc Poured Socket
1
  = These values only apply when the D/d ratio for HT slings is 10 or greater and for MS and S
slings is 20 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which the body of the sling is bent;
d = Diameter of rope
 770                                                                      AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 35.4. Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification
Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Independent Wire Rope Core (IWRC).

 Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification Improved Plow
           Steel Grade Rope With Independent Wire Rope Core (IWRC)
           Rope                             Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
Diameter Construction            Vertical                 Choker             Vertical Basket¹
(inches)                  HT      MS         S     HT      MS       S       HT     MS       S
   1/4         6x19       0.53    0.56      0.59   0.40    0.42    0.44     1.0    1.1     1.2
  5/16         6x19       0.81    0.87      0.92   0.61    0.65    0.69     1.6    1.7     1.8
   3/8         6x19       1.1      1.2      1.3    0.86    0.93    0.98     2.3    2.5     2.6
  7/16         6x19       1.5      1.7      1.8    1.2      1.3    1.3      3.1    3.4     3.5
   1/2         6x19       2.0      2.2      2.3    1.5      1.6    1.7      3.9    4.4     4.6
  9/16         6x19       2.5      2.7      2.9    1.8      2.1    2.2      4.9    5.5     5.8
   5/8         6x19       3.0      3.4      3.6    2.2      2.5    2.7      6.0    6.8     7.2
   3/4         6x19       4.2      4.9      5.1    3.1      3.6    3.8      8.4    9.7    10.0
   7/8         6x19       5.5      6.6      6.9    4.1      4.9    5.2     11.0   13.0    14.0
    1          6x19       7.2      8.5      9.0    5.4      6.4    6.7     14.0   17.0    18.0
  1-1/8        6x19       9.0     10.0      11.0   6.8      7.8    8.5     18.0   21.0    23.0
  1-1/4        6x37       10.0    12.0      13.0   7.9      9.2    9.9     21.0   24.0    26.0
  1-3/8        6x37       13.0    15.0      16.0   9.6     11.0    12.0    25.0   29.0    32.0
  1-1/2        6x37       15.0    17.0      19.0   11.0    13.0    14.0    30.0   35.0    38.0
  1-5/8        6x37       18.0    20.0      22.0   13.0    15.0    17.0    35.0   41.0    44.0
  1-3/4        6x37       20.0    24.0      26.0   15.0    18.0    19.0    41.0   47.0    51.0
     2           6x37      26.0 30.0 33.0 20.0 23.0 25.0 53.0                    61.0   66.0
Notes:
HT = Hand Tucked Splice and Hidden Tuck Splice. For hidden tuck splice (IWRC) use values
in HT column.
MS = Mechanical Splice.
S = Swaged or Zinc Poured Socket
1
  = These values only apply when the D/d ratio for HT slings is 10 or greater and for MS and S
slings is 20 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which the body of the sling is bent;
d = Diameter of rope
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                771



Table 35.5. Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, Cable Laid Rope - Mechanical Splice
Only, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7 x 19 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7 x 6 x 19 IWRC
Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope.
Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, Cable Laid Rope - Mechanical Splice Only, 7 x 7
    x 7 and 7 x 19 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7 x 6 x 19 IWRC
                    Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope
             Rope                            Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
  Diameter         Construction         Vertical         Choker         Vertical Basket1
   (inches)
       1/4              7x7x7               0.50                0.38          1.0
       3/8              7x7x7                1.1                0.81          2.0
       1/2              7x7x7                1.8                1.4           3.7
       5/8              7x7x7                2.8                2.1           5.5
       3/4              7x7x7                3.8                2.9           7.6
       5/8              7x7x19               2.9                2.2           5.8
       3/4              7x7x19               4.1                3.0           8.1
       7/8              7x7x19               5.4                4.0          11.0
        1               7x7x19               6.9                5.1          14.0
      1-1/8             7x7x19               8.2                6.2          16.0
      1-1/4             7x7x19               9.9                7.4          20.0
       3/4          7x6x19 IWRC              3.8                2.8           7.6
       7/8          7x6x19 IWRC              5.0                3.8          10.0
        1           7x6x19 IWRC              6.4                4.8          13.0
      1-1/8         7x6x19 IWRC              7.7                5.8          15.0
      1-1/4         7x6x19 IWRC              9.2                6.9          18.0
    1-15/16         7x6x19 IWRC             10.0                7.5          20.0
      1-3/8         7x6x19 IWRC             11.0                8.2          22.0
      1-1/2         7x6x19 IWRC            13.0                  9.6         26.0
Notes:
1
  = These values only apply when the D/d ratio is 10 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which the body of the sling is bent;
d = Diameter of rope
 772                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 35.6. Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 8-Part and 6-Part Braided Rope, 6 x 7
and 6 x 19 Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized
Aircraft Grade Rope.
Rated Capacities for Single Leg Slings, 8-Part and 6-Part Braided Rope, 6 x 7 and 6 x 19
 Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized Aircraft
                                      Grade Rope
         Rope                            Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
Diameter Construction           Vertical              Choker          Basket, Vertical to
(inches)                                                                 30 Degrees1
                            8-Part     6-Part     8-Part     6-Part    8-Part    6-Part
  3/32           6x7           0.42        0.32        0.32       0.24     0.74     0.55
   1/8           6x7           0.75        0.57        0.57       0.42      1.3     0.98
  3/16           6x7            1.7        1.3         1.3        0.94      2.9     2.2
  3/32           7x7           0.51        0.39        0.38       0.29     0.89     0.67
   1/8           7x7           0.95        0.7         0.71       0.53      1.6     1.2
  3/16           7x7            2.1        1.5         1.5         1.2      3.6     2.7
  3/16          6x19            1.7        1.3         1.3        0.98      3.0     2.2
   1.4          6x19            3.1        2.3         2.3         1.7      5.3     4.0
  5/16          6x19            4.8        3.6         3.6         2.7      8.3     6.2
   3/8          6x19            6.8        5.1         5.1         3.8     12.0     8.9
  7/16          6x19            9.3        6.9         6.9         5.2     16.0     12.0
   1/2          6x19           12.0        9.0         9.0         6.7     21.0     15.0
  9/16          6x19           15.0        11.0        11.0        8.5     26.0     20.0
   5/6          6x19           19.0        14.0        14.0       10.0     32.0     24.0
   3/4          6x19           27.0        20.0        20.0       15.0     46.0     35.0
   7/8          6x19           36.0        27.0        27.0       20.0     62.0     47.0
     1           6x19         47.0        35.0         35.0        26.0    81.0     61.0
Notes:
1
  = These values only apply when the D/d ratio is 20 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which the body of the sling is bent;
d = Diameter of component rope
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                   773



Table 35.7. Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37
Classification Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Fiber Core (FC).
   Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification
               Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Fiber Core (FC)
           Rope                                  Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
                                    2-Leg Bridle Slings                      3-Leg Bridle Slings
Diameter                   30° (60°)    45° Angle      60° (30°)    30° (60°)    45° Angle      60° (30°)
(inches)    Construction   HT MS HT MS HT                    MS HT        MS HT MS HT MS
  1/4             6x19     0.85   0.83   0.70   0.72   0.49   0.51   1.3    1.3    1.0    1.1    0.74   0.76
  5/16            6x19     1.3    1.4    1.1    1.1    0.76   0.79   2.0    2.0    1.6    1.7    1.1    1.2
  3/8             6x19     1.8    1.9    1.5    1.6    1.1    1.1    2.8    2.9    2.3    2.4    1.6    1.7
  7/16            6x19     2.5    2.6    2.0    2.2    1.4    1.5    3.7    4.0    3.0    3.2    2.1    2.3
  1/2             6x19     3.2    3.4    2.6    2.8    1.8    2.0    4.8    5.1    3.9    4.2    2.8    3.0
  9/16            6x19     4.0    4.3    3.2    3.5    2.3    2.5    6.0    6.5    4.9    5.3    3.4    3.7
  5/8             6x19     4.8    5.3    4.0    4.4    2.8    3.1    7.3    8.0    5.9    6.5    4.2    4.6
  3/4             6x19     6.8    7.6    5.5    6.2    3.9    4.4    10.0   11.0   8.3    9.3    5.8    6.6
  7/8             6x19     8.9    10.0   7.3    8.4    5.1    5.9    13.0   15.0   11.0   13.0   7.7    8.9
   1              6x19     11.0   13.0   9.4    11.0   6.7    7.7    17.0   20.0   14.0   16.0   10.0   11.0
  1-1/8           6x19     14.0   16.0   12.0   13.0   8.4    9.3    22.0   24.0   18.0   20.0   13.0   14.0
  1-1/4           6x37     17.0   19.0   14.0   16.0   9.8    11.0   25.0   29.0   21.0   23.0   15.0   17.0
  1-3/8           6x37     20.0   23.0   17.0   19.0   12.0   13.0   31.0   35.0   25.0   28.0   18.0   20.0
  1-1/2           6x37     24.0   27.0   20.0   22.0   14.0   16.0   36.0   41.0   30.0   33.0   21.0   24.0
  1-5/8           6x37     28.0   32.0   23.0   26.0   16.0   18.0   43.0   48.0   35.0   39.0   25.0   28.0
  1-3/4           6x37     33.0   37.0   27.0   30.0   19.0   21.0   49.0   56.0   40.0   45.0   28.0   32.0
   2              6x37     43.0   48.0   35.0   39.0   25.0   28.0   64.0   72.0   52.0   59.0   37.0   41.0
Notes:
Horizontal angles shown in parentheses
HT = Hand Tucked Splice
MS = Mechanical Splice
 774                                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 35.8. Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37
Classification Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Independent Wire Rope Core
(IWRC).
    Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 6 x 19 and 6 x 37 Classification
      Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope With Independent Wire Rope Core (IWRC)
           Rope                                   Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
                                     2-Leg Bridle Slings                      3-Leg Bridle Slings
Diameter                   30° (60°)     45° Angle       60° (30°)   30° (60°)    45° Angle       60° (30°)
(inches)    Construction   HT    MS      HT     MS     HT      MS    HT     MS    HT     MS     HT MS
  1/4             6x19     0.92   0.97   0.75   0.79   0.53   0.56   1.4    1.4    1.1    1.2    0.79   0.84
  5/16            6x19     1.4    1.5    1.1    1.2    0.81   0.87   2.1    2.3    1.7    1.8    1.2    1.3
  3/8             6x19     2.0    2.1    1.6    1.8    1.1    1.2    3.0    3.2    2.4    2.6    1.7    1.9
  7/16            6x19     2.7    2.9    2.2    2.4    1.5    1.7    4.0    4.4    3.3    3.6    2.3    2.5
  1/2             6x19     3.4    3.8    2.8    3.1    2.0    2.2    5.1    5.7    4.2    4.6    3.0    3.3
  9/16            6x19     4.3    4.8    3.5    3.9    2.5    2.7    6.4    7.1    5.2    5.8    3.7    4.1
  5/8             6x19     5.2    5.9    4.2    4.8    3.0    3.4    7.8    8.8    6.4    7.2    4.5    5.1

  3/4             6x19     7.3    8.4    5.9    6.9    4.2    4.9    11.0   13.0   8.9    10.0   6.3    7.3
  7/8             6x19     9.6    11.0   7.8    9.3    5.5    6.6    14.0   17.0   12.0   14.0   8.3    9.9
   1              6x19     12.0   15.0   10.0   12.0   7.2    8.5    19.0   22.0   15.0   18.0   11.0   13.0
 1-1/8            6x19     16.0   18.0   13.0   15.0   9.0    10.0   23.0   27.0   19.0   22.0   13.0   16.0
 1-1/4            6x37     18.0   21.0   15.0   17.0   10.0   12.0   27.0   32.0   22.0   26.0   16.0   18.0
 1-3/8            6x37     22.0   25.0   18.0   21.0   13.0   15.0   33.0   38.0   27.0   31.0   19.0   22.0
 1-1/2            6x37     26.0   30.0   21.0   25.0   15.0   17.0   39.0   45.0   32.0   37.0   23.0   26.0
 1-5/8            6x37     31.0   35.0   25.0   29.0   18.0   20.0   46.0   53.0   38.0   43.0   27.0   31.0
 1-3/4            6x37     35.0   41.0   29.0   33.0   20.0   24.0   53.0   61.0   43.0   50.0   31.0   35.0
   2              6x37     46.0   53.0   37.0   43.0   26.0   30.0   68.0   79.0   56.0   65.0   40.0   46.0
Notes:
Horizontal angles shown in parentheses
HT = Hand Tucked Splice
MS = Mechanical Splice
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     775



Table 35.9. Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, Cable Laid Rope-
Mechanical Splice Only, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7 x 7 x 19 Constructions Galvanized Aircraft Grade
Rope, 7x6x19 IWRC Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope.
 Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, Cable Laid Rope-Mechanical Splice
  Only, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7 x 7 x 19 Constructions Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7x6x19
                  IWRC Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope
         Rope                             Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
Diameter Construction           2-Leg Bridle Slings                 3-Leg Bridle Slings
(inches)                 30° (60°) 45° Angle 60° (30°)       30° (60°) 45° Angle 60° (30°)
  1/4         7x7x7        0.87        0.71       0.50        1.3        1.1        0.75
  3/8         7x7x7         1.9        1.5        1.1         2.8        2.3        1.6
  1/2         7x7x7         3.2        2.6        1.8         4.8        3.9        2.8
  5/8         7x7x7         4.8        3.9        2.8         7.2        5.9        4.2
  3/4         7x7x7         6.6        5.4        3.8         9.9        8.1        3.7
  5/8        7x7x19         5.0        4.1        2.9         7.5        6.1        4.3
  3/4        7x7x19         7.0        5.7        4.1        10.0        8.6        6.1
  7/8        7x7x19         9.3        7.6        5.4        14.0       11.0        8.1
   1         7x7x19        12.0        9.7        6.9        18.0       14.0        10.0
  1-1/8      7x7x19        14.0        12.0       8.2        21.0       17.0        12.0
  1-1/4      7x7x19        17.0        14.0       9.9        26.0       21.0        15.0
  3/4        7x6x19         6.6        5.4        3.8         9.9        8.0        5.7
             IWRC
  7/8        7x6x19         8.7        7.1        5.0        13.0       11.0        7.5
             IWRC
   1         7x6x19        11.0        9.0        6.4        17.0       13.0        9.6
             IWRC
  1-1/8      7x6x19        13.0        11.0       7.7        20.0       16.0        11.0
             IWRC
  1-1/4      7x6x19        16.0        13.0       9.2        24.0       20.0        14.0
             IWRC
 1-5/16      7x6x19        17.0        14.0       10.0       26.0       21.0        15.0
             IWRC
  1-3/8      7x6x19        19.0        15.0       11.0       28.0       23.0        16.0
             IWRC
  1-1/2      7x6x19        22.0        18.0       13.0       33.0       27.0        19.0
             IWRC
Note: Horizontal Angles shown in parentheses.
 776                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 35.10. Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 8-Part and 6-Part Braided Rope, 6 x 7 and 6 x 19
Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope.

 Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 8-Part and 6-Part Braided Rope, 6 x 7 and 6 x 19 Construction Improved
                         Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope
         Rope                                                Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
                                                                                               3-Leg Bridle Slings
                                           2-Leg Bridle Slings
Diameter                   30°    (60°)   45° Angle    60°    (30°)  30°    (60°)   45° Angle     60°   (30°)
 (inches) Construction    8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part
  3/32          6x7        .074     .055      0.60    0.45       0.42   0.32    1.1     0.83      0.90    0.68       0.64   0.48

   1/8          6x7         1.3     0.98      1.1     0.80       0.76   0.57    2.0     1.5       1.6      1.2       1.1    0.85

  3/16          6x7         2.9      2.2      2.4      1.8       1.7    1.3     4.4     3.3       3.6      2.7       2.5    1.9

  3/32          7x7        0.89     0.67      0.72    0.55       0.51   0.39    1.3     1.0       1.1     0.82       0.77   0.58

   1/8          7x7         1.6      1.2      1.3      1.0       0.95   0.71    2.5     1.8       2.0      1.5       1.4    1.1

  3/16          7x7         3.6      2.7      2.9      2.2       2.1    1.5     5.4     4.0       4.4      3.3       3.1    2.3

  3/16          6x19        3.0      2.2      2.4      1.8       1.7    1.3     4.5     3.4       3.7      2.8       2.6    1.9

   1/4          6x19        5.3      4.0      4.3      3.2       3.1    2.3     8.0     6.0       6.5      4.9       4.6    3.4

  5/16          6x19        8.3      6.2      6.7      5.0       4.8    3.6    12.0     9.3       10.0     7.6       7.1    5.4

   3/8          6x19       12.0      8.9      9.7      7.2       6.8    5.1    18.0     13.0      14.0    11.0       10.0   7.7

  7/16          6x19       16.0     12.0      13.0     9.8       9.3    6.9    24.0     18.0      20.0    15.0       14.0   10.0
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                  777



 Rated Capacities for 2-Leg and 3-Leg Bridle Slings, 8-Part and 6-Part Braided Rope, 6 x 7 and 6 x 19 Construction Improved
                         Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope
         Rope                                                 Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
                                                                                                3-Leg Bridle Slings
                                           2-Leg Bridle Slings
Diameter                   30°    (60°)   45° Angle    60°    (30°)  30°    (60°)   45° Angle     60°   (30°)
 (inches) Construction    8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part 8-Part 6-Part
   1/2          6x19        21.0    15.0        17.0   13.0      12.0    9.0    31.0     23.0      25.0    19.0       18.0   13.0

  9/16          6x19        26.0    20.0        21.0   16.0      15.0   11.0    39.0     29.0      32.0    24.0       23.0   17.0

   5/8          6x19        32.0    24.0        26.0   20.0      20.0   14.0    48.0     36.0      40.0    30.0       28.0   21.0

   3/4          6x19        46.0    35.0        38.0   28.0      27.0   20.0    69.0     52.0      56.0    42.0       40.0   30.0

   7/8          6x19        62.0    47.0        51.0   38.0      36.0   27.0    94.0     70.0      76.0    57.0       54.0   40.0

    1           6x19        81.0    61.0        66.0   50.0      47.0   35.0    122.0    91.0      99.0    74.0       70.0   53.0

Note: Horizontal Angles shown in Parentheses.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                              778


Table 35.11. Rated Capacities for Strand Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked, Improved Plow
Steel Grade Rope.
 Rated Capacities for Strand Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked, Improved Plow Steel Grade
                                       Rope
           Rope Body                       Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
  Diameter         Construction       Vertical        Choker         Vertical Basket1
   (inches)
       1/4               7x19                0.85               0.64         1.7
      5/16               7x19                 1.3                1.0         2.6
       3/8               7x19                 1.9                1.4         3.8
      7/16               7x19                 2.6                1.9         5.2
       1/2               7x19                 3.3                2.5         6.7
      9/16               7x19                 4.2                3.1         8.4
       5/8               7x19                 5.2                3.9        10.0
       3/4               7x19                 7.4                5.6        15.0
       7/8               7x19                10.0                7.5        20.0
        1                7x19                13.0                9.7        26.0
      1-1/8              7x19                16.0               12.0        32.0
      1-1/4              7x37                18.0               14.0        37.0
      1-3/8              7x37                22.0               16.0        44.0
      1-1/2              7x37                  26.0              19.0       52.0
Notes:
1
  = These values apply when the D/d ratio is 5 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which rope is bent;
d = Diameter of rope body


Table 35.12. Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked, 7 x 6 x 7 and 7 x 6 x
19 Constructions Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized
Aircraft Grade Rope.
    Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked, 7 x 6 x 7 and 7 x 6 x 19
   Constructions Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized
                                 Aircraft Grade Rope
           Cable Body                       Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
   Diameter        Construction        Vertical          Choker        Vertical Basket1
   (inches)
       3/8               7x6x7                1.3                0.95        2.5
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                779



    Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked, 7 x 6 x 7 and 7 x 6 x 19
   Constructions Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope, 7 x 7 x 7 Construction Galvanized
                                 Aircraft Grade Rope
           Cable Body                       Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
   Diameter        Construction        Vertical          Choker        Vertical Basket1
   (inches)
      9/16               7x6x7                2.8                2.1           5.6
       5/8               7x6x7                3.8                2.8           7.6
       3/8               7x7x7                1.6                1.2           3.2
      9/16               7x7x7                3.5                2.6           6.9
       5/8               7x7x7                4.5                3.4           9.0
       5/8              7x6x19                3.9                3.0           7.9
       3/4              7x6x19                5.1                3.8           10.0
     15/16              7x6x19                7.9                5.9           16.0
      1-1/8             7x6x19               11.0                8.4           22.0
    1-15/16             7x6x19               15.0               11.0           30.0
      1-1/2             7x6x19               19.0               14.0           39.0
    1-11/16             7x6x19               24.0               18.0           49.0
      1-7/8             7x6x19               30.0               22.0           60.0
      2-1/4             7x6x19               42.0               31.0           84.0
      2-5/8             7x6x19                 56.0              42.0         112.0
Notes:
1
  = These values apply when the D/d ratio is 5 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which cable body is bent;
d = Diameter of cable body




Table 35.13. Rated Capacities for Strand Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, Improved
Plow Steel Grade Rope.
 Rated Capacities for Strand Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, Improved Plow Steel
                                     Grade Rope
            Rope Body                         Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
   Diameter         Construction        Vertical          Choker         Vertical Basket1
    (inches)
       1/4            6x19 IWRC              0.92               0.69           1.8
 780                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


 Rated Capacities for Strand Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, Improved Plow Steel
                                     Grade Rope
            Rope Body                         Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
   Diameter         Construction        Vertical          Choker         Vertical Basket1
    (inches)
       3/8            6x19 IWRC               2.0                1.5             4.1
       1/2            6x19 IWRC               3.6                2.7             7.2
       5/8            6x19 IWRC               5.6                4.2            11.0
       3/4            6x19 IWRC               8.0                6.0            16.0
       7/8            6x19 IWRC              11.0                8.1            21.0
        1             6x19 IWRC              14.0               10.0            28.0
       1-1/8          6x19 IWRC              18.0               13.0            35.0
       1-1/4          6x37 IWRC              21.0               15.0            41.0
       1-3/8          6x37 IWRC              25.0               19.0            50.0
      1-1/2           6x37 IWRC                29.0              22.0           59.0
Notes:
1
  = These values apply when the D/d ratio is 5 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which rope is bent;
d = Diameter of rope body


Table 35.14. Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, 7 x 7 x 7
and 7 x 7 x 19 Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7 x 6 x 19 IWRC
Construction Improved Plow Steel Grade Rope.
Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7 x 7 x 19
Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7 x 6 x 19 IWRC Construction Improved
                                Plow Steel Grade Rope
           Cable Body                        Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
  Diameter         Construction         Vertical          Choker             Basket1
   (inches)
       1/4               7x7x7               0.83                0.62            1.6
       3/8               7x7x7                1.8                1.3             3.5
       1/2               7x7x7                3.0                2.3             6.1
       5/8               7x7x7                4.5                3.4             9.1
       3/4               7x7x7                6.3                4.7            12.0
       5/8              7x7x19                4.7                3.5             9.5
       3/4              7x7x19                6.7                5.0            13.0
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       781



Rated Capacities for Cable Laid Endless Slings-Mechanical Joint, 7 x 7 x 7 and 7 x 7 x 19
Construction Galvanized Aircraft Grade Rope, 7 x 6 x 19 IWRC Construction Improved
                                Plow Steel Grade Rope
           Cable Body                        Rated Capacities, Tons (2,000 Lb)
  Diameter         Construction         Vertical          Choker             Basket1
   (inches)
       7/8                7x7x19               8.9                 6.6               18.0
        1                 7x7x19               11.0                8.5               22.0
      1-1/8               7x7x19               14.0                10.0              28.0
      1-1/4               7x7x19               17.0                12.0              33.0
       3/4             7x6x19 IWRC             6.2                 4.7               12.0
       7/8             7x6x19 IWRC             8.3                 6.2               16.0
        1              7x6x19 IWRC             10.0                7.9               21.0
      1-1/8            7x6x19 IWRC             13.0                9.7               26.0
      1-1/4            7x6x19 IWRC             16.0                12.0              31.0
      1-3/8            7x6x19 IWRC             18.0                14.0              37.0
      1-1/2          7x6x19 IWRC               22.0                16.0              43.0
Notes:
1
  = These values apply when the D/d ratio is 5 or greater where:
D = Diameter of curvature around which cable body is bent;
d = Diameter of cable body


Table 35.15. Rated Capacities Carbon Steel and Stainless Steel Metal Mesh Slings.
              Rated Capacities Carbon Steel and Stainless Steel Metal Mesh Slings
                                                  Effect of Angle on Rated Capacities in Basket
 Sling Width        Vertical or      Vertical                          Hitch
   (inches)          Choker          Basket         30° (60°)         45° (45°)      60° (30°)
                        Heavy Duty – 10 Gauge 35 Spirals/Ft of Sling Width
      2                1,500          3,000           2,600             2,100           1,500
      3                2,700          5,400           4,700             3,800           2,700
      4                4,000          8,000           6,900             5,600           4,000
      6                6,000          12,000         10,400             8,400           6,000
      8                8,000          16,000         13,800            11,300           8,000
      10              10,000          20,000         17,000            14,100          10,000
      12              12,000          24,000         20,700            16,900          12,000
      14              14,000          28,000         24,200            19,700          14,000
      16              16,000          32,000         27,700            22,600          16,000
      18              18,000          36,000         31,100            25,400          18,000
 782                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


            Rated Capacities Carbon Steel and Stainless Steel Metal Mesh Slings
                                                  Effect of Angle on Rated Capacities in Basket
 Sling Width      Vertical or       Vertical                          Hitch
   (inches)        Choker            Basket         30° (60°)        45° (45°)       60° (30°)
                      Heavy Duty – 10 Gauge 35 Spirals/Ft of Sling Width
       20           20,000           40,000          34,600           28,200           20,000
                     Medium Duty – 12 Gauge 43 Spirals/Ft of Sling Width
       2             1,350           2,700            2,300            1,900            1,400
       3             2,000           4,000            3,500            2,800            2,000
       4             2,700           5,400            4,700            3,800            2,700
       6             4,500           9,000            7,800            6,400            4,500
       8             6,000           12,000          10,400            8,500            6,000
       10            7,500           15,000          13,000           10,600            7,500
       12            9,000           18,000          15,600           12,700            9,000
       14           10,500           21,000          18,200           14,800           10,500
       16           12,000           24,000          20,800           17,000           12,000
       18           13,500           27,000          23,400           19,100           13,500
       20           15,000           30,000          26,000           21,200           15,000
                       Light Duty – 14 Gauge 59 Spirals/Ft of Sling Width
       2              900            1,800            1,600            1,300             900
       3             1,400           2,800            2,400            2,000            1,400
       4             2,000           4,000            3,500            2,800            2,000
       6             3,000           6,000            5,200            4,200            3,000
       8             4,000           8,000            6,900            5,700            4,000
       10            5,000           10,000           8,600            7,100            5,000
       12            6,000           12,000          10,400            8,500            6,000
       14            7,000           14,000          12,100            9,900            7,000
       16            8,000           16,000          13,900           11,300            8,000
       18            9,000           18,000          15,600           12,700            9,000
       20           10,000           20,000          17,300           14,100           10,000
Note: Horizontal Angles shown in Parentheses.
783                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 35.16. Manila Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds).
                                     Manila Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds)
  Rope       Nominal                    Eye and Eye Slings                                      Endless Slings
Diameter     Weight                       Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope to                        Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope to
Nominal    per 100 ft in Vertical Choke             Horizontal                     Chok                   Horizontal
(inches)     pounds      Hitch    r Hitch   90°     60°     45°     30°    Vertica  er          90°      60°     45°      30°
                                            (0°)   (30°)   (45°)   (60°) l Hitch Hitch          (0°)    (30°)   (45°)    (60°)
  1/2           7.5      480      240      960     830        680     480     865      430     1,730   1,500   1,220    865
  9/16         10.4      620      310      1,240   1,070      875     620     1,120    560     2,230   1,930   1,580    1,120
  5/8          13.3      790      395      1,580   1,370      1,120   790     1,420    710     2,840   2,460   2,010    1,420
  3/4          16.7      970      485      1,940   1,680      1,370   970     1,750    875     3,490   3,020   2,470    1,750
 13/16         19.5      1,170    585      2,340   2,030      1,650   1,170   2,110    1,050   4,210   3,650   2,980    2,110
  7/8          22.5      1,390    695      2,780   2,410      1,970   1,390   2,500    1,250   5,000   4,330   3,540    2,500
   1           27.0      1,620    810      3,240   2,810      2,290   1,620   2,920    1,460   5,830   5,050   4,120    2,920
 1-1/16        31.3      1,890    945      3,780   3,270      2,670   1,890   3,400    1,700   6,800   5,890   4,810    3,400
 1-1/8         36.0      2,160    1,080    4,320   3,740      3,050   2,160   3,890    1,940   7,780   6,730   5,500    3,890
 1-1/4         41.7      2,430    1,220    4,860   4,210      3,440   2,430   4,370    2,190   8,750   7,580   6,190    4,370
 1-5/16        47.9      2,700    1,350    5,400   4,680      3,820   2,700   4,860    2,430   9,720   8,420   6,870    4,860

 1-1/2         59.9      3,330    1,670    6,660   5,770      4,710   3,330   5,990    3,000   12,000 10,400   8,480    5,990

 1-5/8         74.6      4,050    2,030    8,100   7,010      5,730   4,050   7,290    3,650   14,600 12,600   10,300 7,290

 1-3/4         89.3      4,770    2,390    9,540   8,260      6,740   4,770   8,590    4,290   17,200 14,900   12,100 8,590

   2           107.5     5,580    2,790    11,200 9,660       7,890   5,580   10,000   5,020   20,100 17,400   14,200 10,000
   784                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                         Manila Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds)
   Rope          Nominal                    Eye and Eye Slings                                         Endless Slings
 Diameter        Weight                       Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope to                           Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope to
 Nominal       per 100 ft in Vertical Choke             Horizontal                     Chok                      Horizontal
 (inches)        pounds      Hitch    r Hitch   90°     60°     45°     30°    Vertica  er             90°      60°     45°      30°
                                                (0°)   (30°)   (45°)   (60°) l Hitch Hitch             (0°)    (30°)   (45°)    (60°)

   2-1/8           125.0       6,480     3,240     13,000 11,200 9,160        6,480   11,700   5,830   23,300 20,200   16,500 11,700

    2-1/4          146.0       7,380     3,690     14,800 12,800 10,400 7,380         13,300   6,640   26,600 23,000   18,800 13,300

    2-1/2          166.7       8,370     4,190     16,700 14,500 11,800 8,370         15,100   7,530   30,100 26,100 21,300 15,100

    2-5/8          190.8       9,360     4,680     18,700 16,200 13,200 9,360         16,800   8,420   33,700 29,200   23,800 16,800
Note 1: Angle of Rope to Vertical shown in parentheses

Note 2: Refer to Figures 35.18. and 35.19. for sling configuration descriptions.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                                 785


Table 35.17. Nylon Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds).

                               Nylon Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds)
         Nomi-nal                  Eye and Eye Slings                                        Endless Slings


         Weight                        Basket Hitch, Angle of Rope                             Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope
 Rope    per 100                                to Horizontal                                          to Horizontal
                                            o        o        o        o                           o
Dia in    Ft. in    Vertical Choker    90       60       45       30       Vertical Choker    90        60o     45o      30o
Inches   Pounds      Hitch   Hitch     (0o)     (30o)    (45o)    (60o)     Hitch   Hitch     (0o)     (30o)   (45o)     (60o)



 1/2       6.5       635     320      1,270 1,100        900      635      1,140    570      2,290     1,980   1,620    1,140
 9/16      8.3       790     395      1,580 1,370 1,120           790      1,420    710      2,840     2,460   2,010    1,420
 5/8       10.5     1,030    515      2,060 1,780 1,460 1,030              1,850    925      3,710     3,210   2,620    1,850


 3/4       14.5     1,410    705      2,820 2,440 1,990 1,410              2,540    1,270    5,080     4,400   3,590    2,540
13/16      17.0     1,680    840      3,360 2,910 2,380 1,680              3,020    1,510    6,050     5,240   4,280    3,020
 7/8       20.0     1,980    990      3,960 3,430 2,800 1,980              3,560    1,780    7,130     6,170   5,040    3,560


  1        26.0     2,480    1,240    4,960 4,300 3,510 2,480              4,460    2,230    8,930     7.730   6,310    4,460
1-1/16     29.0     2,850    1,430    5,700 4,940 4,030 2,850              5,130    2,570    10,300    8,890   7,260    5,130
1-1/8      34.0     3,270    1,640    6,540 5,660 4,620 3,270              5,890    2,940    11,800 10,200     8,330    5,890


1-1/4      40.0     3,710    1,860    7,420 6,430 5,250 3,710              6,680    3,340    13,400 11,600     9,450    6,680
1-5/16     45.0     4,260    2,130    8,520 7,380 6,020 4,260              7,670    3,830    15,300 13,300 10,800       7,670


1-1/2      55.0     5,250    2,630 10,500 9,090 7,420 5,250                9,450    4,730    18,900 16,400 13,400       9,450
1-5/8      68.0     6,440    3,220 12,900 11,200 9,110 6,440 11,600                 5,800    23,200 20,100 16,400 11,600
1-3/4      83.0     7,720    3,860 15,400 13,400 10,900 7,720 13,900                6,950    27,800 24,100 19,700 13,900


  2        95.0     9,110    4,560 18,200 15,800 12,900 9,110 16,400                8,200    32,800 28,400 23,200 16,400
2-1/8     109.0     10,500   5,250 21,000 18,200 14,800 10,500 18,900               9,450    37,800 32,700 26,700 18,900
2-1/4     129.0     12,400   6,200 24,800 21,500 17,500 12,400 22,300 11,200 44,600 38,700 31,600 22,300


2-1/2     149.0     13,900   6,950 27,800 24,100 19,700 13,900 25,000 12,500 50,000 43,300 35,400 25,000
2-5/8     168.0     16,000   8,000 32,000 27,700 22,600 16,000 28,800 14,400 57,600 48,900 40,700 28,800
Note 1: Angle of Rope to Vertical Shown in Parentheses.
Note 2: Refer to Figures 35.18. and 35.19. for sling configuration descriptions.
786                                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Table 35.18. Polyester Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds).

                                          Polyester Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds)
  Rope Dia     Nominal Weight                     Eye and Eye Slings                                                   Endless Slings
  Nominal       per 100 Ft. in                            Basket Hitch, Angle of Rope                                      Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope
    in             Pounds                                          to Horizontal                                                   to Horizontal
      Inches
                                                               o            o         o        o                              o
                                 Vertical     Choker      90           60        45       30       Vertical   Choker     90        60o     45o      30o
                                  Hitch        Hitch      (0o)      (30o)       (45o)     (60o)     Hitch     Hitch      (0o)     (30o)   (45o)     (60o)
       1/2           8.0           635          320      1,270     1,100        900       635       1,140      570      2,290     1,980   1,620    1,140
      9/16          10.2           790          395      1,580     1,370        1,120     790       1,420      710      2,840     2,460   2,010    1,420
       5/8          13.0           990          495      1,980     1,710        1,400     990       1,780      890      3,570     3,090   2,520    1,780
       3/4          17.5          1,240         620      2,480     2,150        1,750 1,240         2,230     1,120     4,470     3,870   3,160    2,230
      13/16         21.0          1,540         770      3,080     2,670        2,180 1,540         2,770     1,390     5,540     4,800   3,920    2,770
       7/8          25.0          1,780         890      3,560     3,080        2,520 1,780         3,200     1,600     6,410     5,550   4,530    3,200
        1           30.5          2,180        1,090     4,360     3,780        3,080 2,180         3,920     2,960     7,850     6,800   5,550    3,920
      1-1/16        34.5          2,530        1,270     5,060     4,380        3,580 2,530         4,550     2,280     9,110     7,990   6,440    4,550
      1-1/8         40.0          2,920        1,460     5,840     5,060        4,130 2,920         5,260     2,630    10,500 9,100       7.440    5,260
      1-1/4         46.3          3,290        1,650     6,580     5,700        4,650 3,290         5,920     2,960    11,800 10,300      8,380    5,920
      1-5/16        52.5          3,710        1,860     7,420     6,430        5,250 3,710         6,680     3,340    13,400 11,600      9,450    6,680
      1-1/2         66.8          4,630        2,320     9,260     8,020        6,550 4,630         8,330     4,170    16,700 14,400 11.800        8,330
      1-5/8         82.0          5,640        2,820    11,300     9,770        7,980 5,640        10,200     5,080    20,300 17,600 14,400        10,200
      1-3/4         98.0          6,710        3,360    13,400     11,600 9,490 6,710              12,100     6,040    24,200 20,900 17,100        12,100
        2          118.0          7,920        3,960    15,800     13,700 11,200 7,920             14,300     7,130    28,500 24,700 20,200        14,300
      2-1/8        135.0          9,110        4,460    18,200     15,800 12,900 9,110             16,400     8,200    32,800 28,400 23,200        16,400
      2-1/4        157.0         10,600        5,300    21,200     18,400 15,000 10,600            19,100     9,540    38,200 33,100 27,000        19,100
      2-1/2        181.0         12,100        6,050    24,200     21,000 17,100 12,100            21,800     10,900   43,600 37,700 30,800        21,800
      2-5/8        205.0         13,600        6,800    27,200     23,600 19,200 13,600            24,500     12,200   49,000 42,400 34,600        24,500
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                      787



Note 1: Angle of Rope to Vertical shown in Parentheses
Note 2: Refer to Figures 35.18. and 35.19. for sling configuration descriptions.


Table 35.19. Polypropylene Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds).
                                          Polypropylene Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds)
    Rope         Nominal                         Eye and Eye Slings                                                 Endless Slings
    Dia           Weight                                Basket Hitch, Angle of Rope                                    Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope
  Nominal         per 100                                         to Horizontal                                                 to Horizontal
  (inches)         Ft. in                                     o          o         o        o                              o
                               Vertical      Choker      90         60        45       30       Vertical   Choker     90        60o     45o      30o
                  Pounds
                                Hitch        Hitch       (0o)      (30o)     (45o)     (60o)     Hitch     Hitch      (0o)     (30o)   (45o)    (60o)
     1/2            4.7          645          325       1,290      1,120     910       645       1,160      580      2,320     2,010   1,640    1,160
    9/16            6.1          780          390       1,560      1,350     1,100     780       1,400      700      2,810     2,430   1,990    1,400
     5/8            7.5          950          475       1,900      1,650     1,340     950       1,710      855      3,420     2,960   2,420    1,710
     3/4           10.7          1,300        650       2,600      2,250     1,840 1,300         2,340     1,170     4,680     4,050   3,310    2,340
    13/16          12.7          1,520        760       3,040      2,630     2,150 1,520         2,740     1,370     5,470     4,740   3,870    2,740
     7/8           15.0          1,760        880       3,520      3,050     2,490 1,760         3,170     1,580     6,340     5,490   4,480    3,170
     1             18.0          2,140        1,070     4,280      3,700     3,030 2,140         3,850     1,930     7,700     6,670   5,450    3,860
   1-1/16          20.4          2,450        1,230     4,900      4,240     3,460 2,450         4,410     2,210     8,820     7,640   6,240    4,410
    1-1/8          23.7          2,800        1,400     5,600      4,850     3,960 2,800         5,040     2,520     10,100 8,730      7,130    5,040
    1-1/4          27.0          3,210        1,610     6,420      5,560     4,540 3,210         5,780     2,890     11,600 10,000     8,170    5,780
   1-5/16          30.5          3,600        1,800     7,200      6,240     5,090 3,600         6,480     3,240     13,000 11,200     9,170    6,480
    1-1/2          38.5          4,540        2,270     9,080      7,860     6,420 4,540         8,170     4,090     16,300 14,200 11,600       8,170
    1-5/8          47.5          5,510        2,760     11,000     9,540     7,790 5,510         9,920     4,960     19,800 17,200 14,000       9,920
    1-3/4          57.0          6,580        3,290     13,200    11,400 9,300 6,580            11,800     5,920     23,700 20,500 16,800       11,800
     2             69.0          7,960        3,980     15,900    13,800 11,300 7,960           14,300     7,160     28,700 24,800 20,300       14,300
    2-1/8          80.0          9,330        4,670     18,700    16,200 13,200 9,330           16,800     8,400     33,600 29,100 23,800       16,800
 788                                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                              Polypropylene Rope Slings (Rated Capacity in Pounds)
    Rope           Nominal                           Eye and Eye Slings                                                 Endless Slings
       Dia          Weight                                   Basket Hitch, Angle of Rope                                   Basket Hitch; Angle of Rope
  Nominal           per 100                                            to Horizontal                                               to Horizontal
   (inches)          Ft. in                                        o          o        o        o                              o
                                   Vertical      Choker       90         60       45       30       Vertical   Choker     90       60o     45o      30o
                    Pounds
                                     Hitch       Hitch       (0o)       (30o)     (45o)    (60o)     Hitch     Hitch      (0o)     (30o)   (45o)   (60o)
    2-1/4             92.0          10,600        5,300     21,200     18,400 15,000 10,600         19,100     9,540     38,200 33,100 27,000      19,100
    2-1/2            107.0          12,200        6,100     24,400     21,100 17,300 12,200         22,000     11,000    43,900 38,000 31,100      22,000
    2-5/8            120.0           13,800          6,900      27,600 23,900 19,600 13,800         24,800     12,400    49,700 43,000 35,100      24,800
Note 1: Angle of Rope to Vertical shown in Parentheses.
Note 2: Refer to Figures 35.18. and 35.19. for sling configuration descriptions.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                 789


Table 35.20. Synthetic Web Slings.
          Synthetic Web Slings. 1,000 Pounds per Inch of Width – Single Ply
                                (Rated capacity in pounds)
             Triangle -- Choker slings, type I
             Triangle -- Triangle slings, type II
             Eye and eye with flat eye slings, type III:
Sling Body Eye and eye with twisted eye slings, type IV
  Width       Vertical       Choker      Vertical 30° Basket 45° Basket 60° Basket
 (inches)                                 Basket
     1          1,000          750         2,000         1,700       1,400         1,000
     2          2,000         1,500        4,000         3,500       2,800         2,000
     3          3,000         2,200        6,000         5,200       4,200         3,000
     4          4,000         3,000        8,000         6,900       5,700         4,000
     5          5,000         3,700       10,000         8,700       7,100         5,000
     6          6,000         4,500       12,000       10,400        8,500         6,000
Sling Body Endless Slings, type V
  Width       Vertical       Choker      Vertical 30° Basket 45° Basket 60° Basket
 (inches)                                 Basket
     1          1,600         1,300        3,200         2,800       2,300         1,600
     2          3,200         2,600        6,400         5,500       4,500         3,200
     3          4,800         3,800        9,600         8,300       6,800         4,800
     4          6,400         5,100       12,800       11,100        9,000         6,400
     5          8,000         6,400       16,000       13,900       11,300         8,000
     6          9,600         7,700       19,200       16,600       13,600         9,600
Sling Body Return Eye Slings, type VI
  Width       Vertical       Choker      Vertical 30° Basket 45° Basket 60° Basket
 (inches)                                 Basket
     1           800           650         1,600         1,400       1,150          800
     2          1,600         1,300        3,200         2,800       2,300         1,600
     3          2,400         1,950        4,800         4,150       3,400         2,400
     4          3,200         2,600        6,400         5,500       4,500         3,200
     5          4,000         3,250        8,000         6,900       5,650         4,000
     6          4,800         3,800        9,600         8,300       6,800         4,800
Note 1: All angles shown are measured from the vertical.
Note 2: Capacities for intermediate widths not shown may be obtained by interpolation.


Table 35.21. Synthetic Web Slings.
          Synthetic Web Slings. 1,200 Pounds per Inch of Width -- Single-Ply
                             (Rated capacity in pounds)
            Triangle -- Choker slings, type I
Sling Body Triangle -- Triangle slings, type II
  Width     Eye and eye with flat eye slings, type III:
 (inches)   Eye and eye with twisted eye slings, type IV
 790                                                            AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          Synthetic Web Slings. 1,200 Pounds per Inch of Width -- Single-Ply
                               (Rated capacity in pounds)
              Vertical       Choker      Vertical 30° Basket 45° Basket 60° Basket
                                          Basket
     1          1,200          900          2,400      2,100        1,700         1,200
     2          2,400         1,800         4,800      4,200        3,400         2,400
     3          3,600         2,700         7,200      6,200        5,100         3,600
     4          4,800         3,600         9,600      8,300        6,800         4,800
     5          6,000         4,500        12,000     10,400        8,500         6,000
     6          7,200         5,400        14,400     12,500       10,200         7,200
Sling Body Endless Slings, type V
  Width       Vertical       Choker      Vertical 30° Basket 45° Basket 60° Basket
 (inches)                                 Basket
     1          1,900         1,500         3,800      3,300        2,700         1,900
     2          3,800         3,000         7,600      6,600        5,400         3,800
     3          5,800         4,600        11,600     10,000        8,200         5,800
     4          7,700         6,200        15,400     13,300       10,900         7,700
     5          9,600         7,700        19,200     16,600       13,600         9,600
     6         11,500         9,200        23,000     19,900       16,300        11,500
Sling Body Return Eye Slings, type VI
  Width       Vertical       Choker      Vertical 30° Basket 45° Basket 60° Basket
 (inches)                                 Basket
     1           950           750          1,900      1,650        1,350          950
     2          1,900         1,500         3,800      3,300        2,700         1,900
     3          2,850         2,250         5,700      4,950        4,050         2,850
     4          3,800         3,000         7,600      6,600        5,400         3,800
     5          4,750         3,750         9,500      8,250        6,750         4,750
     6          5,800         4,600        11,600     10,000        8,200         5,800
Note 1: All angles shown are measured from the vertical.
Note 2: Capacities for intermediate widths not shown may be obtained by interpolation.


Table 35.22. Synthetic Web Slings.
          Synthetic Web Slings. 1,600 Pounds per Inch of Width -- Single-Ply
                              (Rated capacity in pounds)
           Triangle -- Choker slings, type I
           Triangle -- Triangle slings, type II
   Sling   Eye and eye with flat eye slings, type III:
   Body    Eye and eye with twisted eye slings, type IV
  Width     Vertical      Choker       Vertical     30° Basket 45° Basket 60° Basket
 (inches)                               Basket
     1       1,600         1,200         3,200          2,800    2,300       1,600
     2       3,200         2,400         6,400          5,500    4,500       3,200
     3       4,800         3,600         9,600          8,300    6,800       4,800
     4       6,400         4,800        12,800         11,100    9,000       6,400
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   791



           Synthetic Web Slings. 1,600 Pounds per Inch of Width -- Single-Ply
                               (Rated capacity in pounds)
     5        8,000         6,000       16,000       13,800      11,300            8,000
     6        9,600         7,200       19,200       16,600      13,600            9,600
   Sling    Endless Slings, type V
   Body       Vertical       Choker       Vertical    30° Basket 45° Basket           60°
  Width                                   Basket                                    Basket
 (inches)
     1          2,600          2,100         5,200        4,500        3,700         2,600
     2          5,100          4,100        10,200        8,800        7,200         5,100
     3          7,700          6,200        15,400       13,300       10,900         7,700
     4         10,100          8,200        20,400       17,700       14,400        10,200
     5         12,800         10,200        25,600       22,200       18,100        12,800
     6         15,400         12,300        30,800       26,700       21,800        15,400
   Sling    Return Eye Slings, type VI
   Body       Vertical       Choker        Vertical    30° Basket 45° Basket          60°
  Width                                     Basket                                  Basket
 (inches)
     1          1,050          1,050         2,600        2,250        1,850         1,300
     2          2,600          2,100         5,200        4,500        3,700         2,600
     3          3,900          3,150         7,800        6,750        5,500         3,900
     4          5,100          4,100        10,200        8,800        7,200         5,100
     5          6,400          5,150        12,800       11,050        9,050         6,400
     6          7,700          6,200        15,400       13,300       10,900         7,700
Note 1: All angles shown are measured from the vertical.
Note 2: Capacities for intermediate widths not shown may be obtained by interpolation.


Table 35.23. Number of Spacing of Clips for Ropes of Various Sizes.
                Number of Spacing of Clips for Ropes of Various Sizes
                (If manufacturer’s recommendations are not available)
  Rope         Minimum         Amount of Rope to Turn Back    Torque in     Minimum
Diameter       Number                    (inches)              Ft. Lbs      Spacing
(inches)    Of Drop Forged                                                   (inches)
                 Clips
   1/8             3                      3-1/4                  4.5             3
   1/4             3                      4-3/4                   15             3
   1/2             3                      11-1/2                  65             3
   5/8             3                        12                    95           3-3/4
   3/4             4                        18                   130           4-1/2
   7/8             4                        19                   225           5-1/4
    1              5                        26                   225             6
  1-1/8            6                        34                   225           6-3/4
  1-1/4            6                        44                   360           7-1/2
  1-3/8            7                        44                   360           8-1/4
 792                                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                 Number of Spacing of Clips for Ropes of Various Sizes
                 (If manufacturer’s recommendations are not available)
  Rope           Minimum          Amount of Rope to Turn Back                Torque in      Minimum
Diameter         Number                     (inches)                          Ft. Lbs       Spacing
(inches)      Of Drop Forged                                                                 (inches)
                   Clips
  1-1/2              7                               54                            360          9
  1-5/8              8                               58                            430
  1-3/4              8                               61                            590
    2                8                               71                            750
  2-1/4              8                               73                            750
Note 1: Apply the initial load and retighten nuts to the recommended torque. The rope will
stretch and shrink in diameter when loads are applied inspect periodically and retighten.
Note 2: The efficiency rating of a properly prepared termination for clip sizes 1/8 to 7/8 in. is
approximately 80 percoent and for sizes 1 to 3 in. is approximately 90 percnt. This rating is
based on the catalog breaking strength of wire rope. If a pulley is used in place of a thimble for
turning back the rope, add one additional clip.
Note 3: 1 in. = 2.54 cm. / 1 ft-lb = 1.36 Newton-meter.
Note 4: The number of clips shown is based upon using right regular or Lang lay wire rope, 6 x
19 class or 6 x 37 class, fiber core or Independent Wire Rope Core (IWRC), Improved Plow
Steel (IPS) or Extra Improved Plow Steel (XIPS). If Seale construction or similar large outer
wire type construction in the 6 x 19 class is used for sizes 1 in. (2.5 cm) and larger, add one
additional clip.
Note 5: The number of clips shown also applies to right regular lay wire rope, 8 x 19 class, fiber
core, IPS, nominal sizes 1-1/2 in. and smaller; and right regular lay wire rope, 18 x 7 class, fiber
core, IPS or XIPS, nominal sizes 1-3/4 in. and smaller.
Note 6: For other classes of wire rope not mentioned above, it may be necessary to add
additional clips to the number shown.
Note 7: Turn back the specified amount of rope from the thimble. Apply the first clip one base
width from the dead end of the wire rope (U-bolt over dead end — live end rests in clip saddle).
Tighten nuts evenly to recommended torque.
Note 8: Apply the next clip as near the loop as possible. Turn on nuts firm but do not tighten.
Space additional clips, if required, equally between the first two. Turn on nuts — take up rope
slack — tighten all nuts evenly on all clips to recommended torque.

Table 35.24. Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling and Storage
Equipment.
  Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling and Storage Equipment
Note: This table provides a general overview of requirements outlined in this standard. Refer
to specific paragraphs identified in parenthesis for more detailed information. See Table
35.25. for additional testing and inspection requirements for hoisting equipment used for
critical and nuclear loads.
                           Load Tests                                Inspections
                   Initial       Following Repair,                                            Specialized
   Type of       (Generally       Modifications,          Daily or Prior                       Operator
  Equipment     Manufacturer)           etc.                  to Use           Periodic      Qualifications
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                                     793



Manual               Yes                  Yes                Yes          Annually               No
Hoisting        100% – 125%          100% – 125%         (35.5.2.3.1.)   (35.5.2.3.2.)
Devices         (35.5.2.5.2.1.)      (35.5.2.5.2.2.)
Powered               No                   No                Yes              No               Yes
Industrial                                                (35.5.2.5.)                       (35.5.2.2.)
Trucks
Conveyors                No                No                Yes              No               Yes
                                                          (35.6.3.4.)                       (35.6.3.2.)
Hoists               Yes                  Yes                Yes             Yes               Yes
                100% – 125%          100% – 125%         (35.6.3.5.1.)   (35.6.3.5.2.)      (35.6.3.3.)
                 (35.6.3.7.2.)        (35.6.3.7.2.)                         Other
                                                                         (35.6.3.5.3.)
Slings                Yes                 Yes                Yes             Yes                 No
                100% – 200%          100% – 200%         (35.9.2.3.1.)   (35.9.2.3.2.)
                  (35.9.3.1.1.,       (35.9.3.1.1.,
                   35.9.3.2.1.,       35.9.3.3.1.,
                   35.9.3.2.6.,       35.9.3.5.1.)
                   35.9.3.3.1.,
                   35.9.3.4.1.,
                  35.9.3.5.1.)
Overhead and          Yes                  Yes               Yes              Yes               Yes
Locomotive      100% – 125%          100% – 125%        (35.10.2.5.1.)   (35.10.2.5.2.)     (35.10.2.3.)
Cranes           (35.10.2.7.2.)       (35.10.2.7.2.)                        Other
                                                                         (35.10.2.5.3.)
Mobile Cranes            No               Yes                Yes           Monthly              Yes
                                     100% – 110%        (35.11.2.4.1.,   (35.11.2.4.3.)     (35.11.2.2.)
                                     (35.11.2.6.2.1.)   35.11.2.4.2.)      Annually
                                                                         (35.11.2.4.4.)
                                                                            Other
                                                                         (35.11.2.4.5.)
Related                  Yes               Yes               Yes              Yes                No
Hoisting            (35.13.2.1.1.,   100% – 110%        (35.13.1.2.1.,   (35.13.1.2.1.)
Equipment            35.13.2.2.1.,    (35.13.4.1.1.,     35.13.2.1.4.,     Monthly
(Chain, Wire,       35.13.6.6.2.)     35.13.6.6.2.)     35.13.4.1.3.)    (35.13.1.2.1.,
Rope, Hook,                                                              35.13.2.1.4. ,
Personnel                                                                35.13.4.1.3.)
Platforms)                                                                  Other
                                                                         (35.13.1.2.2.,
                                                                         35.13.1.4.3.)
Derricks                Yes                No                Yes              Yes                No
                    (35.10.2.1.)                        (35.10.1.1.1.,    (35.10.1.3.)
                                                         35.10.1.2.)        Other
                                                                          (35.10.1.4.)

Table 35.25. Additional Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling
Equipment Used for Critical and Nuclear Loads.
Additional Testing and Inspection Requirements for Materials Handling Equipment
                          Used for Critical and Nuclear Loads
Note: This table provides a general overview of requirements outlined in this standard.
Refer to specific paragraphs identified in parenthesis for more detailed information.
Requirements outlined in this table are additional requirements to those outlined in Table
35.24.
Type of Equipment                     Annual Load Test                     Periodic Inspection
Hoists
 794                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Nuclear Load                               Yes                         Semiannually
                            Not less than 100% or more than             (35.6.3.5.2.)
                              125% of the rated capacity
                                       (35.6.3.7.3.)
Critical Load                              Yes
                            Not less than 100% or more than
                              125% of the rated capacity
                                       (35.6.3.7.4.)
Slings
Nuclear Load                              Yes                               Yes
                                  Per 11N Series TOs                Per 11N Series TOs
                                       (35.9.2.4.)                       (35.9.2.3.)
Overhead Cranes
Nuclear Load                                Yes                        Semiannually
                            Not less than 100% or more than            (35.10.2.5.2.)
                                          110%
                                       (35.10.2.7.3.)
Mobile and Locomotive Cranes
Nuclear Load                                Yes
                            Not less than 100% or more than
                                          110%
                                      (35.11.2.6.2.2.)
Related Hoisting
Equipment                          NDI Hook Annually
Critical and Nuclear Load              (35.13.4.1.4.)
35.12. Materials Handling Equipment Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like
all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter.
Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs,
FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command
or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
    35.12.1. Have qualified personnel been identified as training instructors? Reference 35.3.3.1
    35.12.2. Have training outlines been developed for all material handling equipment?
    Reference 35.3.3.2
    35.12.3. Does the instructor provide written certification of training completion to the
    OR&L? Reference 35.3.3.3
    35.12.4. Do instructors evaluate each operator at least once every three (3) years and provide
    refresher training in relevant topics when there is reason to believe there is a need? Reference
    35.3.3.7
    35.12.5. Are safety pallets used to lift personnel designed correctly? Reference 35.3.4.6
    35.12.6. Do operators follow all applicable requirements for safe operation of powered
    industrial trucks? Reference 35.3.5
    35.12.7. Do materials handling and lifting equipment operators conduct daily or prior-to-use
    inspections and document them on AF Form 1800 per requirements of paragraph 35.1.1?
    Reference 35.3.6.
    35.12.8. Is materials handling and lifting equipment cleaned in designated locations and only
    with cleaning agents approved by the FES Flight and BE? Reference 35.3.7.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      795



  35.12.9. Do conveyors meet all required design and safety features? Reference 35.4.2
  35.12.10. Are all personnel trained on procedures for operating conveyors? Reference
  35.4.2.2
  35.12.11. Are inspections of manual hoisting and pulling devices conducted annually?
  Reference 35.5.2.3.2
  35.12.12. Do identification tags attached to hoists include date of annual inspection, date of
  load test, capacity of hoist and identification number of hoist? Reference 35.5.2.3.3
  35.12.13. Are hoists operated only by personnel who are trained and qualified to use the
  equipment? Reference 35.6.3.3
  35.12.14. Are inspections of hoists and related equipment performed periodically and
  documented per requirements of paragraph 35.1.1? Reference 35.6.3.5.2.
  35.12.15. Do maintenance activities use lockout/tagout procedures IAW Chapter 21?
  Reference 35.6.3.6.5.1
  35.12.16. Have operational (no load) and load tests been performed on all new hoists and
  those which have had load-suspension parts altered, replaced or repaired? Reference
  35.6.3.7.1
  35.12.17. Are annual load tests performed on nuclear-certified hoists? Reference 35.6.3.7.3
  35.12.18. Are annual load tests performed on hoists required to lift critical loads? Reference
  35.6.3.7.4
  35.12.19. Are records of periodic inspections, repairs and tests of hoists maintained
  indefinitely? Reference 35.6.3.8
  35.12.20. Do all slings comply with the design and manufacturing requirements of 29 CFR
  1910.184 and ANSI B30.9? Reference 35.7.2.1
  35.12.21. Are slings marked or identified with all required information on the sling or a
  durable and legible tag or label? Reference 35.7.2.2
  35.12.22. Are documented sling inspections conducted by a qualified person? Reference
  35.7.2.3.2
  35.12.23. Are all repaired or reconditioned slings appropriately load tested? Reference
  35.7.2.4.2
  35.12.24. Is a record of each sling‘s most recent load test maintained on file? Reference
  35.7.2.4.2
  35.12.25. Is the rated capacity plainly marked on each side of a crane, and if the crane has
  more than one hoisting unit, is the rated capacity marked on each unit? Reference 35.8.2.2.2
  35.12.26. Do pendant and cab hoist controls for trolley and bridge movement use compass
  points as the preferred identification wherever possible? Reference 35.8.2.2.6
  35.12.27. Is access to the cab or bridge walkway gained by a conveniently placed fixed
  ladder, stairs or platform requiring no step over any gap in excess of 12 inches? Reference
  35.8.2.2.8
796                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  35.12.28. Is a fire extinguisher, rated at least 10 BC, located in the cab of the crane?
  Reference 35.8.2.2.9
  35.12.29. Are only properly trained and qualified personnel permitted to operate cranes?
  Reference 35.8.2.3
  35.12.30. Do cab-operated and pulpit-operated equipment operators meet the minimum
  physical qualifications? Reference 35.8.2.3.1.2
  35.12.31. Are the standard hand signals posted on or near all cranes? Reference 35.8.2.4.6
  35.12.32. Do personnel involved in materials handling wear all appropriate personal
  protective equipment? Reference 35.8.2.4.7
  35.12.33. Is a preventive maintenance program established and records maintained and
  readily available? Reference 35.8.2.6.1.1
  35.12.34. Are hazardous energy control (lockout/tagout) procedures developed and used
  during powered crane maintenance activities? Reference 35.8.2.6.2.1.3
  35.12.35. Have all cranes received the required operational (no load) test? Reference
  35.8.2.7.1.1
  35.12.36. Is a clearly legible rating chart located in view of the operator in the crane cab?
  Reference 35.9.2.1.2.1
  35.12.37. Are those portions of crane cabs that extend beyond the main chassis when rotated
  color coded on the lower areas to denote a strike hazard to personnel on the ground?
  Reference 35.9.2.1.2.5
  35.12.38. Is an audible warning device provided when hoisting operations or moving
  equipment might endanger personnel in the work area, and is the device control within easy
  reach of the operator? Reference 35.9.2.1.2.10
  35.12.39. Is a warning permanently posted in the cab of the crane which states: ―DANGER
  HIGH VOLTAGE, Do Not Operate Within 10 Feet of Electric Power Lines‖? Reference
  35.9.2.1.2.11
  35.12.40. Have man-rated cranes been approved prior to acquisition or use? Reference
  35.9.2.1.2.13
  35.12.41. Are all crawler, locomotive, truck and mobile hydraulic crane operators licensed to
  operate cranes? Reference 35.9.2.2
  35.12.42. Is a list of qualified operators maintained by the using organization? Reference
  35.9.2.2
  35.12.43. Do all operators meet the minimum physical qualifications? Reference
  35.9.2.2.1.2
  35.12.44. Do operators follow correct procedures prior to leaving a crane unattended?
  Reference 35.9.2.3.5
  35.12.45. During periods of non-use, high winds or weather alerts, do operators lower the
  boom to ground level or a resting platform or otherwise ensure the boom is secure against
  movement from wind or other forces? Reference 35.9.2.3.6
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        797



  35.12.46. Are outriggers used when required and is blocking to support the outriggers of
  sufficient size and strength to prevent shifting or toppling of the crane under load? Reference
  35.9.2.3.24
  35.12.47. When rotating the crane, is a tag line used when necessary to control rotation of
  the load? Reference 35.9.2.3.30
  35.12.48. Are procedures in place to ensure safe operations in the vicinity of electrical power
  lines? Reference 35.9.2.3.39
  35.12.49. Is appropriate personal protective equipment worn by crane crew personnel and
  construction personnel involved in crane operations? Reference 35.9.2.3.41
  35.12.50. If an approved crane is used to lift personnel, is the platform used to suspend
  personnel designed correctly? Reference 35.11.6
  35.12.51. Are all required load tests of mobile and locomotive cranes conducted and records
  maintained? (Reference 35.9.2.6
  35.12.52. Are energy control (lockout/tagout) procedures used during crane maintenance
  activities? Reference 35.9.2.5.1.1.2
  35.12.53. Are frequent and periodic inspections of derricks performed as required and
  documented? Reference 35.10.1
  35.12.54. Have all required load tests of derricks been performed? Reference 35.10.2.1
  35.12.55. Is a preventive maintenance program established for derricks, and are these
  maintenance activities documented? Reference 35.10.3.1.1
  35.12.56. Are running ropes visually inspected daily or prior to use and are those inspections
  documented? Reference 35.11.2.2.1
  35.12.57. Is a full, written, dated and signed report of wire rope condition kept on file for a
  minimum of one year and readily available? Reference 35.11.2.2.1
  35.12.58. Are hoist chains inspected before use and monthly, and are these inspections
  documented? Reference 35.11.3.1.4
  35.12.59. Are hooks with more than 5% of normal throat opening or any apparent bend or
  twist from the plane from the original baseline measurements removed from service and
  replaced? Reference 35.11.5.1.1
  35.12.60. Are all hooks visually inspected daily or prior to use and thoroughly inspected
  each month? Reference 35.11.5.1.3
  35.12.61. If operations require removal or replacement of hooks and/or lifting fixtures, is the
  lifting capacity of the hooks/lifting fixtures readily identifiable to the hoist/crane operator?
  Reference 35.11.5.3
 798                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 36

                                  HYDROCARBON FUELS

36.1. Specific Hazards.
   36.1.1. Hydrocarbon fuels range in color from clear to straw-yellow or a very pale blue.
   Certain gasoline, particularly aviation gasoline containing tetraethyl lead, have dyes added to
   identify the type of the fuel. TO 42B-1-1, Quality Control Fuels and Lubricants, provides the
   military specifications for fuels. Hydrocarbon fuels are a fat solvent, which can irritate skin.
   Fuels such as gasoline, kerosene, diesel and fuel oils have similar characteristics and warrant
   the same degree of safety as aviation fuels.
   36.1.2. TO 42B-1-1-14, Fuels for USAF Aircraft, provides a complete description of aircraft
   fuel classifications, characteristics and use, and is summarized below:
       36.1.2.1. General. There are four types of aircraft fuels: Wide-cut type (JP-4 and Jet B),
       kerosene type (JP-8, Jet A-1 and Jet A), high flashpoint kerosene (JP-5) and aviation
       gasoline. With certain restrictions, all four types are used in turbojet and turboprop
       engines. Aviation gasoline is used only in reciprocating engines. Gasoline-type fuels are
       not used in aircraft turbojet and turboprop engines because of poorer lubricating
       properties than kerosene-type fuels and because lead additives may adversely affect
       turbine engines.
       36.1.2.2. Wide-Cut Type (JP-4 and Jet B). Wide-cut fuels are mixtures of gasoline and
       kerosene distillate fractions with an approximate boiling range of 35 degrees centigrade
       (C) to 315 degrees C (95 degrees F to 600 degrees F).
       36.1.2.3. Kerosene Type (JP-8, Jet A-1 and Jet A). Kerosene type fuels are petroleum
       distillates with an approximate boiling range of 165 degrees C to 290 degrees C (330
       degrees F to 550 degrees F).
       36.1.2.4. High-Flashpoint Kerosene (JP-5). High-flashpoint kerosene fuel has essentially
       the same characteristics as the kerosene fuels, but with a minimum flashpoint of 60
       degrees C (140 degrees F).
       36.1.2.5. Aviation Gasoline. Gasoline is a petroleum distillate with an approximate
       boiling range of 35 degrees C to 165 degrees C (95 degrees F to 330 degrees F).
       36.1.2.6. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Turbine Engine Fuels. In overseas
       areas, turbine engine fuels may be identified by a NATO symbol. Note: NATO fuels
       have similar qualities to the fuels above.
   36.1.3. Chemical Properties. Hydrocarbon fuels are insoluble in water, are soluble in many
   organic components and are excellent solvents for many organic materials. These fuels are
   chemically stable and insensitive to shock. Some dyes used in gasoline products are light
   sensitive and must be handled with minimum exposure to light to prevent change of color.
   Air Force fuels demonstrate good thermal stability over a wide range of ambient storage
   temperatures, but extreme temperature or prolonged storage will accelerate oxidation, gum
   and sediment formation. Hydrocarbon fuels react with strong oxidizers, and this reaction is
   accelerated at higher pressures and/or temperatures.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        799



  36.1.4. Ignition Hazard. Oxygen comprises approximately 21 percent by volume of the total
  atmospheric air. Leaks in oxygen gas storage cylinders or cryogenic generators can raise the
  oxygen level of air. Oxygen at concentrations of 16percent or less will not support
  combustion. Hydrocarbon fuel vapors can create an explosive atmosphere (lower explosive
  limit 1 percent, upper explosive limit 7 percent, by volume). The ignition susceptibility of the
  fuel, Table 22.10, varies with flashpoint, pressure and the specific type of fuel. Hydrocarbon
  fuel fires may be both air-supported and other-oxidizer-supported. The rate of fuel
  evaporation increases with a rise in temperature. A mixture below lower explosive limits is
  too ―lean‖ to burn and a mixture above the upper flammable and/or explosive range is too
  ―rich‖ to burn.
  36.1.5. Sources of Ignition.
     36.1.5.1. General. Unexpected and unwanted ignition of fuels can cause fires and
     explosions which may result in property damage, injury and/or loss of life. Ignition
     sources include open flames such as matches and cigarette lighters, cutting and welding
     sparks, static electricity, electrical arcing and lightning. Support equipment being
     operated in any fuels area shall meet the requirements of AFMAN 24-306 (IP), Manual
     for the Wheeled Operator, and TO 36-1-191, Chapter 3, Motor Vehicle and Base Support
     Equipment Inspection.
     36.1.5.2. Static Electricity. Static electricity can occur when fuel is stable (not flowing)
     or flowing. Static electricity can build up by the slightest movement in a stable
     environment, i.e., in a fuel tank or cell, container, etc. Fuel flowing through hoses or pipe
     systems can generate an electrostatic charge over 20,000 volts, sufficient to cause an arc
     or spark when touched. A conductivity additive in JP-4 and JP-8 minimizes static buildup
     during fuel flow. Warning: The additive reduces, but does not eliminate, static
     electricity in fuel flowing through hoses or pipes.
     36.1.5.3. Clothing containing more than 65 percent nylon, rayon, wool or polyester shall
     not be worn as outer garments when working with/around low flash point fuels. Flak
     vests shall not be worn during aircraft fuel servicing operations or during fuel operations
     where low flashpoint vapors may be present. In all cases (i.e., servicing with any fuel), a
     worker wearing a flak vest will always ground or bond him- or herself when approaching
     an aircraft and prior to beginning work. If no spark occurs during bonding or grounding,
     normal work may begin. However, if a spark does occur during bonding or grounding,
     the worker will ground or bond him or herself frequently during all work phases. Note:
     Commanders may authorize wear of body armor/flak vests and Gortex-type clothing in
     combat areas. Outer garments shall not be removed or put on in the work area. Matches
     or lighters shall not be handled or removed from pockets.
  36.1.6. Sources of Static Electricity.
     36.1.6.1. The filter-separator unit generates static electricity when fuel flows through
     tiny filter openings (filtration). Workers should wait at least 30 seconds after flow stops
     so the static charge can dissipate from the filter before removing bonding connections,
     etc.
800                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      36.1.6.2. Aircraft refuelers and petroleum transport vehicles. The filter separator
      installed on bottom and/or top loading fillstands and wire screens or line strainers, which
      have small openings, generate static charges. Screens with a pore size less than 300
      micron with 50 mesh per inch can create static charges. Movement of fuel through piping
      or hose also generates static charges. Proper grounding and bonding are required to
      control static buildup and hazards.
      36.1.6.3. Avoid top loading refuelers from an overhead spout whenever possible. An
      approved waiver will be obtained from the MAJCOM Ground Safety and Fuels offices
      prior to performing top loading operations. This method increases electrostatic charges
      when fuel freefalls through air and agitates fuel in the tank. If top loading is necessary,
      extend the filling spout to the bottom of the tank and keep submerged during the entire
      operation to reduce the static generation.
         36.1.6.3.1. Bottom loading of refuelers minimizes fuel turbulence. For this reason,
         ensure permanent fuel storage tanks systems are designed for bottom loading.
         36.1.6.3.2. Regardless of the filling method used, danger signals such as crackling
         and hissing sounds indicate the presence of dangerous levels of static electricity. If
         this occurs, immediately stop filling operations and evacuate personnel until the static
         charge has dissipated. Identify and eliminate the cause of the static buildup before
         resuming operations.
      36.1.6.4. Support equipment can develop a static charge while parked due to movement
      of dust particles and air currents or during periods of thunderstorm activity.
      36.1.6.5. Grounding and/or bonding requirements in UFC 3-460-03, O&M: Maintenance
      of Petroleum Systems, TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static
      Grounding/Bonding, TO 42B-1-1, and TO 37-1-1, Operation, Inspection, and
      Maintenance of Permanently Installed Fuel Storage and Dispensing Systems, shall be
      followed. Remove or replace all static grounds with resistances of more than 10,000
      ohms, and repair and retest damaged static grounds. Static grounds do not require
      periodic retest.
  36.1.7. Toxicity. Hydrocarbon fuels can irritate skin. Repeated contact can cause scaling,
  defatting, fissuring and blistering of the skin. Inhalation of vapor can irritate the upper
  respiratory tract and depress the central nervous system, resulting in depression, dizziness,
  headaches, anesthesia, coma or death. Aspiration causes severe lung irritation with coughing,
  gagging and rapidly developing pulmonary edema, which can progress to bronchopneumonia
  and death. Ingestion causes irritation of mucous membranes of throat, esophagus and
  stomach, followed by depression of the central nervous system.
  36.1.8. Exposure to Fuel Additives. Air Force fuels may contain benzene. Benzene is present
  in both gasoline-based and kerosene-based fuels. Note: JP series fuels do not contain
  tetraethyl lead. All fuels contain benzene to some degree (0.1 to 5 percent by volume).
  Aviation gasoline usually contains higher concentrations of benzene than does heavier
  distillate fuels. However, benzene is toxic even in low concentrations. This is particularly
  true in confined spaces such as petroleum storage tanks. Fuels laboratories, listed in TO 42B-
  1-1, can analyze fuel for benzene content.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       801



   36.1.9. Asphyxiation and Confined Space. Hydrocarbon fuel vapors will displace oxygen in
   enclosed spaces and pits and may cause death due to asphyxiation. Refer to Chapter 23,
   Confined Spaces, for additional guidance.
36.2. Specific Requirements.
   36.2.1. Fuel Spill Classifications. Fuel spill classification and emergency procedures are
   described in TO 00-25-172. Cleanup procedures shall be established IAW the installation
   environmental management office guidance.
   36.2.2. Training.
      36.2.2.1. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, provides specific training requirements
      for personnel engaged in handling or use of hazardous materials. Employees working
      with fuels shall be trained IAW AFI 90-821.
      36.2.2.2. Ensure individuals exposed to petroleum products understand the hazards of
      static electricity.
      36.2.2.3. Ensure fuels handling personnel are trained in fire prevention and protection as
      it relates to their particular duties. Refer to Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention,
      for additional guidance and information.
      36.2.2.4. Operations involving the handling, transfer or storage of hydrocarbon fuels
      normally require a minimum of two persons who are knowledgeable of fuel safety and
      operational procedures. Refer to AFI 23-201, Fuels Management, for guidance on the
      two-person policy.
      36.2.2.5. Ensure personnel are trained to prevent hydrocarbon fuels and propellant
      oxidizers being spilled in the same area. If such a spill does occur and if the oxidizer is
      water soluble, flood the oxidizer with water to dilute it and help reduce the risk of an
      explosion or fire. Notify the installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight when a
      fuel spill or oxidizer spill occurs.
   36.2.3. Petroleum Storage Tank Entry. UFC 3-460-03 covers this subject in detail and shall
   be used as definitive guidance on all tank entry tasks. Chapter 23 also provides confined
   space guidance.
   36.2.4. Work Areas and Storage Rooms. The following design safety features shall be
   included where petroleum products are handled or stored:
      36.2.4.1. Refer to Chapter 19, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units, for requirements
      for emergency showers and/or face and eyewash units for fuels handling.
      36.2.4.2. Consult Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for guidance on
      rescue harnesses, lifelines and PPE, and AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory
      Protection Program, for respirator requirements.
      36.2.4.3. Refer to Chapter 6 and consult the installation FES Flight for guidance on fire
      suppression systems.
   36.2.5. Adverse Weather Conditions. Refer to Chapter 11, Weather Safety, for guidance.
 802                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   36.2.6. First Aid. Personnel shall take the following steps if hydrocarbon fuels are splashed
   or spilled onto them:
       36.2.6.1. Remove contaminated clothing as soon as possible and wash affected skin
       areas with soap and water. Thoroughly air and launder contaminated clothing before it is
       worn again. Do not place contaminated clothing in lockers or other confined spaces.
       Hang clothing in a safe area away from fire and heat, and allow it to air dry.
       36.2.6.2. If fuel is splashed into the eyes, immediately flush the eyes with water
       continuously for at least 15 minutes; then seek medical attention. Refer to Chapter 19 for
       guidance on emergency shower and eyewash units.
       36.2.6.3. If fuel is swallowed, do not induce vomiting. Seek medical assistance as soon
       as possible.
   36.2.7. Finger Rings and Jewelry. Refer to Chapter 9, Jewelry.
36.3. Fuel Storage Systems.
   36.3.1. Safety Features. New construction, alteration and/or modification of petroleum
   facilities shall conform to UFC 3-460-01, Design, Petroleum Fuel Facilities, as well as all
   other applicable Air Force specifications and directives. Existing facilities, unless hazards are
   present, are not required to meet current Air Force specifications or directives until a
   modification or alteration is planned.
       36.3.1.1. Access. Where necessary, pit covers shall be altered or replaced to provide free
       and unobstructed access. Fuels Management in conjunction with Water Fuel
       Management personnel shall determine which pits are essential to the operation and
       control of the system. Nonessential pits, or pits that can be made nonessential, shall be
       filled with sand to eliminate vapor hazards. Essential pits shall be kept clean, dry and
       vapor-free. Pit covers shall be closed except when in use or work is being done in the pit.
       36.3.1.2. Ventilation.
          36.3.1.2.1. Adequate ventilation shall be provided for below-grade pump houses and
          deep pits to prevent accumulation of explosive vapor hazards. Opening pit covers
          normally provides sufficient ventilation only for shallow pits and hand holes, but this
          must be consistent with BE‘s OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for
          additional guidance.
          36.3.1.2.2. Entry into confined spaces and pits where oxygen may be displaced by
          fuel vapors shall be according to master entry plans and permits issued in compliance
          with Chapter 23. Contact BE for specific ventilation requirements.
       36.3.1.3. Drainage. Gravity drains or pumps shall be provided to control water in pits.
       Drains from pits and/or pump house floors will not be connected to sanitary or storm
       sewer systems, unless permitted by the installation Environmental Management office.
       Contact BE for an OEH risk assessment.
       36.3.1.4. Piping System Identification. Piping systems shall be color coded to aid in
       identifying the contents of piping in fuel storage areas. Yellow shall be used as a primary
       warning for all flammable gases and liquids, and black and white shall be used for
       identification of contents. Refer to MIL-STD-161G, Identification Methods for Bulk
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      803



     Petroleum Products Systems Including Hydrocarbon Missile Fuels, and Chapter 20,
     Safety Color Coding, Labeling and Marking for Piping Systems, for additional guidance.
  36.3.2. Safety Procedures.
     36.3.2.1. Adverse weather conditions. See Chapter 11.
     36.3.2.2. Bond fuel transport vehicles, i.e., tank trucks, to the offloading header to
     dissipate static electricity charges generated during the handling operations.
     36.3.2.3. Place a drip pan under the outlet of each railroad tank car or transport truck
     before the dust or outlet cap is removed to collect any fuel leaked through the main valve
     during transportation.
     36.3.2.4. During transfer of fuel into an off-loading header, check the receiving tank for
     sufficient ullage before beginning the transfer. Warning: Ensure the initial flow-rate
     does not exceed three (3) feet per second and is maintained until the liquid level is one
     (1) foot above the inlet level or until the pan or roof of the aboveground storage tank is
     floating freely. Allow a minimum waiting time of 30 minutes for electrostatic charges to
     dissipate before performing manual gauging or temperature measurement.
         36.3.2.4.1. Make sure the gauging tape remains in contact with the gauging hatch to
         provide an electrical bond and prevent electrostatic arcing.
         36.3.2.4.2. Upon completion of gauging or temperature measurements, slowly
         remove the tape from the tank while maintaining contact between gauging hatch and
         tape.
     36.3.2.5. Danger signs.
         36.3.2.5.1. Place danger signs 50 feet in the front and rear of railroad tank cars or
         transport trucks prior to off-loading operations into bulk storage. These signs are not
         required during bulk off-loading operations at installation service stations or off-
         loading operations within posted secured areas. However, the Fuels Management
         Flight Chief may require special procedures for unique installations.
         36.3.2.5.2. Ensure danger signs are posted on the perimeter fence of fuel storage
         areas. If unfenced, post signs 50 feet from the dike area or fuel vents of underground
         storage tanks, or as determined by BE, in conjunction with the installation Ground
         Safety Office. Signs shall state: ―No Open Flame or Ignition Source Beyond This
         Point,‖ and meet requirements in Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags.
         Signs may include a second language, if needed.
     36.3.2.6. Ensure adequate fire protection equipment, i.e., fire extinguishers,
     grounding/bonding equipment, proper PPE and any other equipment required to prevent
     these hazards, is available before starting fuel handling operations to protect personnel
     from fuel vapor and static hazards. Personnel shall not be allowed on above-ground
     receiving tanks during filling operations or within 30 minutes thereafter.
     36.3.2.7. Because fuel may be present, never use open flame or heating element to thaw
     frozen valves on tank cars and tank trucks.
     36.3.2.8. Use a two-person policy during fuel receipts and transfers.
804                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      36.3.2.9. All local procedures and checklists for the movement of fuel shall include
      emergency shutdown procedures.
      36.3.2.10. After changing a filter separator element, slowly fill the filter vessel by
      partially opening the inlet and outlet valves to displace trapped air. The slower flow will
      reduce static charging of the fuel. Refer to TO 37A-1-101, Fuel, Water and Lubricant
      Dispensing Equipment, for complete details on filling filter separators after element
      change.
      36.3.2.11. Before starting fuel transfer actions, establish intrinsically safe
      communications, such as hot line, radio, telephone, etc., between pipeline pump station,
      barge or tanker, and receipt location. To ensure emergency shutdown capability, provide
      communications throughout the entire receipt.
      36.3.2.12. Keep the dike basin area free of vegetation. Containment dikes and basins
      shall be constructed IAW UFC 3-460-01.
      36.3.2.13. Tank water drains and dike drain valves shall be locked (closed position)
      when not in use.
      36.3.2.14. Watch draining floating roof water drains to ensure no fuel runs out with the
      water from a leak in the drain pipe. When possible, secure roof water drains by lock after
      draining.
      36.3.2.15. Provide adequate lighting in petroleum areas for safe and secure night
      operations (1-footcandle in general areas; 2-footcandles on catwalks). In areas classified
      as NFPA hazardous locations, lighting fixtures and wiring must comply with the
      requirements of NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, and NFPA 70,
      National Electric Code.
  36.3.3. Truck Fillstand Operations.
      36.3.3.1. Position the fuel servicing vehicle to prevent placing a strain on fillstand
      components.
      36.3.3.2. Set the vehicle parking brake and chock the rear wheels.
      36.3.3.3. Bond the vehicle to the fillstand by connecting the vehicle conductor reels to a
      bonding receptacle on the fillstand. When a hose cart or Hydrant Servicing Vehicle
      (HSV) is used as a fillstand, the hose cart or HSV operator shall bond the hose cart or
      HSV to the hydrant outlet piping. The refueling unit operator shall bond the refueling unit
      to the hose cart or HSV.
         36.3.3.3.1. Fuel servicing vehicles that have the Scully overfill protection in cab
         power switch installed and an Intellitrol fillstand system may use the Sculcon cable
         on the fillstand as an approved ground/bond.
         36.3.3.3.2. Fuel servicing vehicles that do not have the Scully in cab power switch
         installed and still have the paddle switch on the bottom loader that activates the
         Scully system will need to be grounded/bonded to the fillstand using the
         grounding/bonding reel installed on the vehicle.
      36.3.3.4. Push the stop switch on the fillstand to ensure the transfer pump is not
      operating when the system does not have a deadman control installed. This ensures the
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      805



     loading arm or hose is not pressurized prior to connecting to the vehicle and will avoid a
     possible fuel spill.
     36.3.3.5. When beginning filling operations, the operator shall open appropriate fuel
     transfer valves, turn on the pump and check for leaks. The operator shall check the
     bottom loading automatic shutoff device by pushing the test button on R-9 or R-11
     refuelers during the first 500 gallons of fuel pumped into the vehicle, if equipped.
     36.3.3.6. Refueling vehicles equipped with a bottom loader and automatic shutoff valve
     do not require a person on top of the vehicle during loading. Refer to Chapter 13, Fall
     Protection, and Chapter 24, Aircraft Flight line – Ground Operations and Activities, for
     proper fall protection precautions and requirements.
     36.3.3.7. When filling is complete, disengage the fuel storage system nozzle from the
     vehicle and obtain required forms from the bulk storage operator. The operator shall
     conduct a ―walk-around‖ inspection, check for leaks, remove the ground cable and wheel
     chocks, before departing the area.
     36.3.3.8. All fillstands shall be equipped with an emergency shutdown switch capable of
     stopping all associated transfer pumps in the event of a fire or other mishap. Identify the
     emergency switch and ensure all personnel are familiar with its location. Inspect the
     fillstand emergency shutdown switch during system checkout and activate it with the
     system operating at least every 30 days to ensure proper operation. Ensure the emergency
     shutdown switch is located no closer than 25 feet from the fillstand.
  36.3.4. Railroad Tank Car Operations. When unloading tank cars through bottom valve
  arrangement into installation bulk storage systems:
     36.3.4.1. Isolate railroad tank car off-loading tracks (spur) from main tracks and ground
     them. The off-loading header need not be grounded to the tank car since there is electrical
     continuity through the rail and tank car body. The grounded railroad spur shall be
     checked to ensure a resistance reading of 10,000 ohms or less IAW paragraph 36.1.6.5.
     36.3.4.2. Tank cars being loaded with aviation fuels or Mogas shall be bonded to the
     loading facilities.
     36.3.4.3. Insulate the railroad spur from the adjoining railroad track serving the rest of
     the installation by means of insulation blocks. Bond each of the rails on both sides of the
     track by electrical connectors. Connect the insulated and bonded tracks and ground them
     to the same grounding point with the piping at each unloading manifold. The insulating
     and bonding of the tracks controls and discharges any static buildup.
  36.3.5. Fueling Equipment Safeguarding.
     36.3.5.1. Fuel servicing equipment parking areas shall be treated as above-ground fuels
     facilities and safeguarded accordingly.
     36.3.5.2. Fuel servicing equipment parking areas shall be paved, lighted and have
     sufficient slope to control drainage. The parking area shall:
        36.3.5.2.1. Have at least two entrances and/or exits to provide means for rapid egress
        should a hazardous situation develop.
 806                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          36.3.5.2.2. Be at least 100 feet from surrounding inhabited buildings and 50 feet
          from uninhabited buildings and taxiing aircraft. See UFC 3-460-01 for further
          guidance and separation distances from other fixed facilities. Note: The 100-foot
          requirement may be modified for existing parking areas based on local conditions and
          the size, nature and importance of nearby buildings. However, this separation distance
          will not be reduced below 50 feet.
          36.3.5.2.3. Maintain at least 25 feet center-to-center between fueling vehicles in
          parking areas. Vehicles shall be parked in single rows and be capable of driving into
          and out of parking positions in a single turn.
          36.3.5.2.4. Have sufficient firefighting equipment (portable or wheeled units)
          available and strategically located within the parking areas as required by the
          installation FES Flight.
          36.3.5.2.5. Have danger signs placed IAW paragraph 36.3.2.5.2.
       36.3.5.3. See Chapter 32, Motor Vehicle – Operations and Maintenance, for additional
       guidance on refueler vehicle maintenance areas.
       36.3.5.4. Fuel Barge Operations. Locations that receive fuel by barges over waterways
       will adhere to requirements IAW 33 CFR Part 156 Subpart A, Oil and Hazardous
       Material Transfer Operations, Section 156.120, Requirements For Transfer.
36.4. Fuel Servicing Operations.
   36.4.1. Aircraft Servicing. Eliminate or control hazardous fuel vapors and ignition sources
   during any aircraft servicing operation.
       36.4.1.1. A Fuel Servicing Safety Zone (FSSZ) shall be established during all fueling or
       defueling operations IAW TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static
       Grounding/Bonding.
       36.4.1.2. All support equipment not required in fueling or defueling operations or in
       concurrent fueling, maintenance or cargo-handling operations shall be moved outside the
       FSSZ. Position the equipment so a clear path is maintained to permit rapid evacuation of
       vehicles and personnel in an emergency.
          36.4.1.2.1. Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) shall be monitored and a Class B
          fire extinguisher shall be available in the immediate vicinity when the unit is
          operating in a FSSZ.
          36.4.1.2.2. On flight lines with minimum aircraft separation, i.e., 10-15 feet wing tip
          to wing tip, and where ramp space is limited, powered support equipment such as
          generators, air conditioners and air compressors may be left in place if shut down and
          disconnected from the aircraft.
          36.4.1.2.3. When practical, mark support equipment parking locations on the ramp.
          36.4.1.2.4. Powered support equipment that is not explosion-proof but required for
          aircraft fueling and defueling shall be parked the full length of the approved power
          cable from the aircraft and kept outside the FSSZ. The full length of the approved
          cable or air-start duct shall be maintained between the fueling point or vents to fighter
          aircraft. Consider wind direction, ramp slope, locations of aircraft fuel overflow
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        807



        vents, location of servicing unit or fueling hydrant, and mechanical strain on the
        power receptacle when using powered support equipment.
        36.4.1.2.5. The power unit brakes shall be applied and, if necessary, because of ramp
        slope, also chocked. Only approved cables shall be used with the power unit.
        36.4.1.2.6. Auxiliary power units shall not be parked under any part of an aircraft.
     36.4.1.3. Aircraft shall not be fueled or defueled inside any hangar or facility until a
     System Safety Engineering Analysis (SSEA) has been conducted. Specific facilities that
     already have an approved SSEA can be found in TO 00-25-172, Table 4.2.
     36.4.1.4. The Aircraft Servicing Supervisor shall ensure compliance with requirements
     of this standard, TO 00-25-172 and specific weapon system TOs; ensure a current
     checklist is used; know the type and quantity of fuel required; and ensure the proper
     number of people are present, briefed (to include emergency procedures) and positioned
     properly prior to the start of the operations.
        36.4.1.4.1. Ensure a fire guard is assigned during refueling and defueling operations.
        A maintenance crew member shall be responsible for coupling the fueling nozzle to
        the single-point receptacle and assuring it is locked in place. Note: For C-5 aircraft,
        the refueling equipment operator may perform the function of the maintenance crew
        member, to include monitoring the single point nozzle(s) during the fuel servicing,
        with installation commander approval. Refer to TO 00-25-172 for additional
        guidance.
     36.4.1.5. Fuels operators are responsible for performing the mission in a safe manner.
     The operator shall continually monitor the equipment for sparks and other ignition
     sources, unusual noises and other indications of possible malfunctions. Servicing shall be
     stopped immediately if the operator determines it is unsafe. When using hydrant systems,
     all operating personnel shall know the location and proper use of the system emergency
     shutoff switch.
        36.4.1.5.1. Servicing aircraft with the wrong fuel can be catastrophic. Fueling
        personnel shall ensure aircraft receive the proper fuel.
        36.4.1.5.2. All transient alert and maintenance control personnel shall state both the
        type of aircraft and the fuel desired when requesting support from the Fuels Service
        Center (FSC).
        36.4.1.5.3. Refueling drivers shall verify, prior to commencing any refueling
        operation, that the type of aircraft to be serviced is the same type aircraft specified on
        the refueling dispatch log.
        36.4.1.5.4. Refueling personnel and the maintenance crew chief shall ensure the fuel
        in the servicing unit, as indicated on the unit, is the correct type of fuel required for
        the aircraft to be fueled, as indicated by the TO, aircraft decals or other positive
        means. Similar precautions are required when refueling units are refilled from bulk
        sources.
808                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  36.4.2. Aircraft Fueling and Defueling by Truck. In addition to the general servicing safety
  precautions and standards, the following procedures shall be followed when servicing aircraft
  from fuel trucks.
      36.4.2.1. Keep as much distance as possible between aircraft being fueled and other
      aircraft, at least 20 feet from FSSZ between aircraft (wingtip to wingtip) to be serviced
      and other aircraft, except for fighter, trainer and light cargo types, which may be within
      10 feet (wingtip to wingtip) of each other‘s FSSZ. In positioning the tank truck and the
      aircraft, place them so the fuel vapor will not be carried downwind toward a source of
      ignition.
         36.4.2.1.1. Do not drive or park fuel servicing vehicles under any portion of an
         aircraft. However, fuel servicing vehicles with an elevated platform may be
         positioned under the wing of aircraft, provided there is ample clearance and the
         aircraft is configured for and actually performing under-the-wing fueling operations.
         Alternatively, a maintenance platform shall be used when this type fuel servicing
         vehicle is not available. Under no circumstances will the vehicle be positioned closer
         than 10 feet from the aircraft. Exception: For A-10, C-5, C-17, C-130, E-4B, VC-25,
         Boeing 747, C-27 and U-2R aircraft only, the vehicle may be within 10 feet but no
         closer than 4 feet from the aircraft in any direction. For C-5, C-17, E-4B, VC-25 and
         Boeing 747 aircraft, the fuel truck may be positioned as far under the wing as
         necessary for the fuel hose to reach the aircraft.
      36.4.2.2. A spotter shall be used when backing refueling trucks toward the aircraft. A
      chock shall be pre-positioned to act as a stop block to maintain proper aircraft and/or
      equipment separation. When the truck is in position, the parking brake shall be set and all
      chocks installed.
      36.4.2.3. Aircraft wheel chocks, fabricated according to the applicable aircraft Dash-2
      TOs, shall be placed fore and aft of the main landing gear or as specified in applicable
      aircraft TOs. Vehicle chocks may be constructed as per Commercial Item Specification
      A-A-52475, or locally manufactured IAW TO 00-25-172.
      36.4.2.4. The operator shall monitor the control panel and be prepared to shut down
      fueling if a fuel leak or other malfunction occurs.
      36.4.2.5. Accomplish emergency shutdown IAW TO procedures. For fuel spills, other
      than minor aircraft venting, the aircraft fuel servicing truck shall not be evacuated until
      the area is cleaned up and declared safe by the installation FES Flight.
      36.4.2.6. During defuel operations with units not equipped with an operable high level
      shutoff system, a person shall be stationed on the top of the refueling truck to observe the
      tank fuel level and signal the pump operator when full to prevent an overflow. Units with
      inoperable high level shutoffs shall not be utilized unless mission essential. Refer to
      Chapter 13 and Chapter 24 for proper fall protection precautions and requirements.
      36.4.2.7. During multiple source refueling, refueling unit operators must continuously
      monitor fuel-flow meters to detect any indication of reverse fuel flow. Caution: If
      reverse flow occurs, operations shall be stopped immediately and not restarted until the
      cause(s) are determined and corrected.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        809



  36.4.3. Aircraft Fueling and Defueling From Hydrant Systems.
     36.4.3.1. Hydrant system fueling and defueling operations shall be supervised. Hydrant
     system pump houses shall be manned IAW TO 37-1-1. The hosecart/HSV operator shall
     hold the remote control switch, magnet lanyard or deadman control throughout the
     refueling operation. Before fuel delivery begins, aircraft fuel tank caps shall be checked
     to ensure they are secure. The hosecart/HSV hoses and valves are heavy and require more
     than one person to safely handle, especially during a hose evacuation malfunction. To
     prevent damage, do not drag the hose or valve on the ramp. Other members of the fuel
     servicing crew shall help the hosecart/HSV operator stow the hoses.
     36.4.3.2. On Type I and II systems, the operator shall ensure there is no pressure at the
     outlet prior to hooking up the ―Moosehead‖ valve.
     36.4.3.3. The operator shall inspect the remote control cables to ensure they are
     hermetically sealed and serviceable when used.
     36.4.3.4. Hoses shall be pressurized and inspected for leaks prior to the first servicing of
     the day.
     36.4.3.5. Hoses shall be wrapped in a manner to prevent rubbing on hosecart tires or
     dragging on pavement.
     36.4.3.6. All personnel involved in the servicing operations shall know the location of
     hydrant emergency shutoff switches.
  36.4.4. Fueling New or Recently Repaired Aircraft Tanks or Tanks That Have Been Purged.
     36.4.4.1. Aircraft fuel tanks/cells with nitrogen inerting systems may be filled at the
     normal rate of flow with the nitrogen system activated.
     36.4.4.2. Aircraft without a nitrogen inerting system must be fueled at the slowest
     possible flow rate until each fuel tank/cell is full or to the level dictated by the mission.
  36.4.5. Fueling From Drums. Refuel from drums IAW TO 00-25-172. Bond fuel containers
  and aircraft as when fueling from tank trucks or hydrants. Note: Fueling from drums shall be
  accomplished only as an emergency measure. Fueling from cans or ―topping off‖ is
  particularly hazardous due to the potential for spills and static ignition.
  36.4.6. Ground Servicing Operations.
     36.4.6.1. Aircraft fuel servicing hazards are also present when servicing support
     equipment, vehicles and organizational and/or support equipment tanks. Therefore,
     commanders, supervisors and operators must recognize that ground servicing operations
     warrant the same degree of attention to safety afforded aircraft servicing operations.
     Refueling units in ground servicing operations shall be inspected for safety deficiencies
     per the locally established maintenance program. Many aircraft operation procedures that
     contain fuels, vapors and prevent ignition also apply to ground operations.
     36.4.6.2. Service Station Operations. Loading, storage and handling of fuels shall be
     IAW 29 CFR 1910.106(g), Service Stations, unless specifically addressed in paragraph
     36.4.6.3.
810                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      36.4.6.3. Support equipment, vehicles and organizational and/or support equipment tanks
      shall not be fueled within 50 feet of open flames or spark-producing devices. Personnel
      shall not smoke during fueling operations and shall allow sufficient time for fuel vapors
      to dissipate after fueling is completed before smoking if fueling is conducted off the
      flight line.
         36.4.6.3.1. Personnel shall not operate portable electrical devices, i.e., cell phones,
         drills, flashlights, etc., during fueling operations unless the device is intrinsically safe
         or listed for use in a fuel vapor environment.
         36.4.6.3.2. Static charge may develop when the operator exits and re-enters the
         vehicle and ignite fuel vapors near the nozzle. Personnel should not re-enter the
         vehicle during the fueling operation unless they ground themselves prior to re-
         entering.
         36.4.6.3.3. Support equipment and vehicles shall be serviced outdoors, with engines
         turned off and with parking brakes engaged.
         36.4.6.3.4. During fueling, operators shall ensure the nozzle of the fuel hose is in
         constant contact with the filler pipe of the support equipment, tank and/or vehicle fuel
         tank, to provide an electrical bond.
         36.4.6.3.5. Nozzles used at attended/unattended motor vehicle service stations and
         fleet fueling sites shall be listed IAW NFPA 30A, Code for Motor Fuel Dispensing
         Facilities and Repair Garages, and have automatic-closing type hose nozzles with a
         latch open device. Nozzles used at attended/unattended marine motor fuel dispensing
         facilities/sites shall be listed IAW NFPA 30A and have automatic-closing type hose
         nozzles without a latch open device. Nozzles used for dispensing by gravity from
         tanks above the dispensing/delivery point shall only be a manually operated nozzle.
         36.4.6.3.6. Nozzles used on mobile support refueling equipment shall be automatic-
         closing type hose nozzles without a latch open device.
             36.4.6.3.6.1. Operating instructions shall be conspicuously posted in the
             dispensing area for unattended self-service stations. The instructions shall include
             location of emergency controls and a requirement that user stay outside of their
             vehicle and in view of the fueling nozzle during dispensing operation.
             36.4.6.3.6.2. Emergency instructions shall also be conspicuously posted in the
             dispenser area. The emergency instructions shall incorporate the following or
             equivalent wording:
                 36.4.6.3.6.2.1. Use emergency stop button.
                 36.4.6.3.6.2.2. Report accident by calling (installation FES number) and
                 report location.
         36.4.6.3.7. Fuel-dispensing systems including dispensers, hoses, nozzles, breakaway
         fittings, swivels, flexible connectors, dispenser emergency shutoff valves, vapor
         recovery systems and pumps that are used for alcohol blended motor fuels greater
         than 15 percent alcohol content shall be listed or approved for the specific purpose.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       811



          36.4.6.3.8. All CNG, LNG and LPG refueling dispensers, hoses, nozzles, breakaway
          fittings, swivels and flexible connectors, dispenser emergency shutoff valves, vapor
          recovery systems and pumps shall be listed or approved for the specific purporse. All
          CNG, LNG and LPG motor vehicle fuel dispensing shall be in an outdoor location.
36.5. Fuel Laboratory Operations.
   36.5.1. Fuels Handling and Laboratory Personnel.
      36.5.1.1. Duty Hours. A normal duty day shall not exceed 12 hours. Duty times begin
      when personnel report for duty and end when all fuels operations have been completed or
      transferred to another individual. For personnel dispatched to duty locations removed
      from the support installation, duty time does not end until travel to the support
      installation or specified location for rest is completed.
      36.5.1.2. Rest Period. A normal rest period shall afford an individual the opportunity for
      at least 8 hours of sleep.
      36.5.1.3. Authorized Duties. Only qualified personnel or personnel under the direct
      supervision of a lab-qualified individual shall perform laboratory sampling or analyses.
      Functional managers shall certify personnel authorized to perform specific fuel analysis
      functions.
   36.5.2. Fuels Laboratory Design Requirements. UFC 3-460-01, Petroleum Fuel Facilities,
   UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, and AF Joint (AFJ) 32-series
   regulations shall be consulted for existing facilities (as a minimum operating standard) and
   for new construction. In case of conflict with national fire codes or building codes, these
   handbooks take precedence. The installation CE, FES Flight, Ground Safety office and BE
   shall make an initial inspection to certify the acceptability of the fuels laboratory.
   36.5.3. Sampling and Analysis Safety. The installation Fuels Management Office shall
   establish guidance for general safety, sampling safety and laboratory safety during laboratory
   analyses.
      36.5.3.1. General.
          36.5.3.1.1. Post safety instructions (Figure 36.1) in fuel laboratories.
          36.5.3.1.2. Workers shall be informed of chemical hazards IAW 29 CFR 1910.1200.,
          Hazard Communication. Additionally, hazard communication training shall be
          provided for workers labeling containers or developing or using MSDSs. Refer to
          AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, for additional guidance and information.
          36.5.3.1.3. Label outside of doors of non-explosion proof refrigerators to indicate
          ―NOT FOR FLAMMABLE STORAGE.‖ Warning: Do not store food or beverage
          in the refrigerator.
          36.5.3.1.4. The laboratory supervisor shall ensure ovens are equipped with a
          temperature limiting automatic shutoff control. Cooking, eating food or drinking
          beverages in the fuels laboratory is prohibited.
          36.5.3.1.5. The quantity of test fuel in the laboratory shall not exceed 10 gallons,
          including fuel awaiting analysis, unless analysis specifies a larger sample size.
812                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         36.5.3.1.6. Limit glass containers to volumes specified in Table 36.1 for all fuels.
         36.5.3.1.7. Do not pour fuel into sinks connected to a sanitary drain. Contact the
         installation Environmental Management office for disposal guidance.
         36.5.3.1.8. Inspect waste fuel drums located outside the laboratory daily and empty
         them when full.
         36.5.3.1.9. Do not use waste fuel to kill vegetation.
         36.5.3.1.10. Post ―No Smoking Within 50 Feet‖ signs at all laboratory entrances.
         36.5.3.1.11. Ensure fire extinguishers are readily available in the laboratory. Contact
         the installation FES Flight for proper types and sizes. Refer to Chapter 6, Fire
         Protection and Prevention, for additional guidance and information.
         36.5.3.1.12. Ensure at least two people are in the laboratory when tests involving
         fuels or acids are performed. One of these people must be a fully qualified lab
         technician.
         36.5.3.1.13. Personnel shall not introduce or handle spark-producing materials such
         as matches, lighters, keys, etc., while in the laboratory. Exception: Flashpoint
         laboratory equipment.
      36.5.3.2. Sampling Safety.
         36.5.3.2.1. Bond all sampling equipment when taking samples. Allow time for static
         charges to equalize before disassembly of the in-line sampling equipment IAW TO
         42B-1-1.
         36.5.3.2.2. When sampling above-ground storage tanks, use the two-person policy.
         Ensure personnel ground themselves prior to climbing tank ladders by grasping the
         guardrail with a bare hand. In extremely cold weather, they shall grasp a warm metal
         object such as a coin and touch it to the guardrail and ensure the coin contacts the
         guardrail‘s metal surface.
         36.5.3.2.3. Do not sample storage tanks during filling operations. Allow at least 30
         minutes after filling a tank before taking a sample to allow static electricity charges to
         dissipate.
         36.5.3.2.4. Use only bronze, steel or other conductive tapes, chains or cables to lower
         the sampler into the tank. Ground all metallic components to the tank before opening
         the sampling hatch and inserting sampling components. Maintain continuous contact
         between the tape and the hatch opening while lowering the tape into the tank.
         36.5.3.2.5. Do not overfill sampling containers. Allow adequate space for fuel
         expansion.
         36.5.3.2.6. Be careful when taking fuel samples from crashed aircraft to prevent
         ignition of residual fuel vapors. Contamination is also a problem and personnel shall
         ensure the sample is representative of the uncontaminated fuel in the aircraft fuel
         tanks.
         36.5.3.2.7. Containers used for sampling shall meet requirements in Table 36.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        813



     36.5.3.3. Safety During Laboratory Analyses.
         36.5.3.3.1. Ground or bond all laboratory equipment used in analyzing fuels.
         Electrical equipment is grounded to the building electrical service ground system
         when plugged in with a serviceable 3-rong (ground) electrical plug; therefore, no
         other ground wires are required. Ground waste fuel containers by extending a ground
         wire with clamps from the container to the laboratory common ground system.
         36.5.3.3.2. Do not use fuel analysis thermometers for other purposes.
         36.5.3.3.3. Ensure workers understand hazards of handling toxic reagents. Local
         procedures shall not deviate from TO requirements.
         36.5.3.3.4. Minimize eye exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light during operation and
         repair of the Aeronautical Engine Laboratory (AEL) water detector.
         36.5.3.3.5. A safety flask (liquid trap) is required between the vacuum pump and the
         filtration apparatus to prevent fires in ground fuel filtration equipment. This prevents
         fires caused by flammable liquid from being drawn into the vacuum pump.
         36.5.3.3.6. Petroleum ether used in laboratory analyses is highly flammable. Perform
         all fuels analyses under operating exhaust hoods.
         36.5.3.3.7. Do not leave waste fuel in the laboratory overnight unless properly stored.
         36.5.3.3.8. The installation Fuels Management Office shall develop emergency
         procedures and coordinate them with the installation FES Flight and Ground Safety
         office. These procedures include, but are not limited to, evacuation, equipment
         shutdown and notification of the installation FES Flight. Emphasize techniques to
         extinguish clothing fires.
         36.5.3.3.9. Mark all containers in the laboratory, regardless of size, to identify
         contents. Workers shall not pipette fuels by mouth.
         36.5.3.3.10. Do not conduct laboratory analyses or allow fuel in the laboratory unless
         exhaust systems are functioning.
         36.5.3.3.11. Wear approved eye protection when performing or observing fuels
         analyses. Make sure an approved emergency shower/eyewash is provided IAW
         Chapter 19.
         36.5.3.3.12. Ensure all facility and equipment electrical repairs meet NFPA 70,
         National Electric Code, requirements.
         36.5.3.3.13. Electrical receptacles in fuels laboratories shall be at least four (4) feet
         above floor level or working surface.
  36.5.4. Inspection of Fuels Laboratory. Supervisors shall inspect their facilities and
  operations to identify and control or eliminate hazards before they cause a mishap. Personnel
  shall be instructed to notify their supervisors of potential hazards. Hazards shall be
  categorized according to potential severity and probability of occurrence IAW AFI 91-202,
  The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program. Immediate action shall be taken to eliminate
  those hazards in Categories IA, IB, IIA, and IIB.
814                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      36.5.4.1. External Support Inspections. Periodic inspections shall be accomplished by the
      installation FES Flight, BE and Ground Safety office. BE shall conduct an OEH risk
      assessment whenever there is reason to believe an exposure may be hazardous, as
      necessary. Functional managers shall maintain copies of these inspection reports for a
      minimum of two (2) years or until the next higher headquarters inspection, whichever
      comes first.
      36.5.4.2. Internal Inspection of Fuels Laboratory. Internal safety inspections are the
      responsibility of all assigned personnel. Potential safety and health hazards must be
      identified and hazard abatement plans established as outlined in AFI 91-202. Items
      requiring special attention during daily, weekly or monthly internal inspections include:
         36.5.4.2.1. Inspect all electrical connections of equipment for loose or defective
         connections and frayed insulation.
         36.5.4.2.2. Visually inspect all ground wires for frays or loose connections. Check
         electrical continuity monthly with a resistance (ohm) meter. Inspections shall be
         documented on the AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical Data, or MAJCOM or
         locally devised automated systems.
         36.5.4.2.3. Inspect electrical grounding of the fuels laboratory building monthly and
         electrical resistance annually. Electrode resistance to ground shall not exceed 25
         ohms under dry conditions. Inspections shall be documented on the AFTO Form 95,
         or MAJCOM or locally devised automated systems.
         36.5.4.2.4. Ensure laboratory personnel use correct PPE when handling acids.
         36.5.4.2.5. Make sure all acid solutions are stored in a double container.
         36.5.4.2.6. Ensure labels on containers accurately reflect contents.
         36.5.4.2.7. Make sure waste fuel containers are emptied daily. Contact the
         installation Environmental Management office for additional guidance and
         information.
         36.5.4.2.8. Ensure only authorized personnel are in the laboratory when testing fuels.
  36.5.5. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping is essential in the fuels laboratory and is the
  responsibility of all personnel.
      36.5.5.1. Provide plainly marked metal containers with self-closing lids for combustible
      waste such as rags, paper towels and other flammable solid materials. Paint these
      containers yellow with red letters designating, ―COMBUSTIBLE SOLID WASTE.‖
      36.5.5.2. Fuel spills can cause fires and create slipping hazards. Spills shall be cleaned
      up immediately.
      36.5.5.3. Use only noncombustible absorbent materials to clean up spills of
      flammable/combustible materials. Do not use sawdust or wood shavings as an absorbent.
      36.5.5.4. Do not clean fuels laboratory floors with flammable liquids. Use nonskid waxes
      when waxing floors.
      36.5.5.5. Unplug all lab equipment at the end of the work day, unless instructed by TO,
      manufacturer‘s instructions or when allowed by the installation FES Flight.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         815



       36.5.5.6. Keep outside areas, approximately 25 feet, around fuels laboratories free of
       weeds, trash and other combustible materials.
       36.5.5.7. Ensure aisles in fuels laboratories are clear and permit unobstructed egress of
       personnel in case of fire.
       36.5.5.8. Limit waste fuel containers within the laboratory to five (5) gallons each.
       Empty the containers when full and at the end of the normal work day. Paint containers
       red with a two-inch yellow band around the center of the container. Stencil the type of
       fuel in one-inch letters inside the yellow band on the front side of the drum.
       36.5.5.9. Never pour acids into fuel containers.
       36.5.5.10. Position a 55-gallon drum, or an equivalent container, outside the laboratory
       at least 50 feet from the building. Paint the drum red with a four-inch yellow band around
       the center of the drum. Stencil the grade of fuel in two-inch letters inside the yellow band
       on the front side of the drum. Ground all waste containers and drums. Note: A metal
       drum (DOT specifications) or approved metal portable tank not exceeding 60 gallons
       may be placed within the laboratory if equipped with a self closing cover and a device to
       prevent propagation of flame into the drum/tank; located at least 10 feet, horizontally,
       from energized electrical outlets; and approved by the installation FES Flight.

Table 36.1. Maximum Allowable Size of Containers and Metal Portable Tanks For
Flammable Liquids/Combustible Liquids.
   Maximum Allowable Size of Containers and Metal Portable Tanks For Flammable
                              Liquids/Combustible Liquids
Container Type                                             Class
                                            IA        IB     IC      H       M
Glass                                      1 pt      1 qt   1 gal   1 gal   5 gal
Metal (Other than Department of            1 gal     5 gal  5 gal   5 gal   5 gal
Transportation (DOT) drums) or approved
Plastics
Safety Cans                                2 gal     5 gal  5 gal   5 gal   5 gal
Metal Drum (DOT)                          60 gal    60 gal 60 gal  60 gal  60 gal
Polyethylene DOT Spec 34 or as             1 gal     5 gal  5 gal  60 gal  60 gal
authorized by DOT Exemption
Approved Metal Portable Tanks            660 gal 660 gal 660 gal 660 gal 660 gal

Figure 36.1. Safety Instructions for Fuels Laboratories (To be posted in all installation
fuels laboratories).

Safety Instructions For Fuels Laboratories


1. Hazards.
1.1. Body contact with fuel can cause skin or eye irritation.
1.2. Swallowed fuels are poisonous.
 816                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


1.3. Inhaling vapors may cause drowsiness, intoxication or asphyxiation.
1.4. Spills can cause slipping and/or fire hazards.

2. First Aid.
2.1. Remove fuel-contaminated clothing and wash affected skin areas with soap and water.
2.2. If fuels are swallowed, DO NOT induce vomiting. Get medical attention immediately.
2.3. If fuel is splashed in eyes, flush with water for 15 minutes. Get medical attention.

3. Safety Precautions.
3.1. Know the general characteristics of fuels.
3.2. Verify that personal protective and fire protection equipment are available and in working
order prior to operations involving fuel.
3.3. All electrical equipment used in fuel operations must be properly grounded unless designed
for ungrounded operation.
3.4. Avoid spills. Vapors from fuel can form explosive mixtures with air.
3.5. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after working with fuels.
3.6. Clothing splashed with fuel must be removed, dried out and laundered before being worn
again. Use caution removing fuel-soaked clothes to prevent electrostatic ignition. Air clothing
until thoroughly dry. DO NOT place fuel-soaked clothing in lockers or other enclosed spaces.




36.6. Safety Guide For Hydrocarbon Fuels.
   36.6.1. Hazards:
       36.6.1.1. Contact with skin can cause scaling, fissuring of skin, and blistering.
       36.6.1.2. Contact with eyes causes irritation (liquid fuel or vapors).
       36.6.1.3. Swallowing fuels may cause poisoning.
       36.6.1.4. Gasping while swallowing or aspiration from vomiting can introduce fluid into
       the lungs and may cause chemically induced pneumonia.
       36.6.1.5. Inhaling vapors may cause dizziness. Danger: In confined spaces of pits, fuel
       vapors may overcome a worker and cause death due to asphyxiation.
       36.6.1.6. Spills may cause dangerous fire hazards:
           36.6.1.6.1. Fuel vapors can burn or explode when exposed to an ignition source.
           36.6.1.6.2. If hydrocarbon fuels and rocket oxidizers are spilled and mixed, the
           mixture can be exploded by chemical reaction, heat, or spark. They may even explode
           spontaneously.
       36.6.1.7. Gasoline hydrocarbon fuels with tetraethyl lead are highly toxic to the central
       nervous system. Tetraethyl lead can be:
           36.6.1.7.1. Absorbed through the skin.
           36.6.1.7.2. Inhaled.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       817



         36.6.1.7.3. Ingested.
             36.6.1.7.3.1. By direct contact with the petroleum product.
             36.6.1.7.3.2. Indirectly through contact with petroleum sludges, tank scale, and
             tank rust.
     36.6.1.8. Hydrocarbon fuel vapors can displace oxygen in enclosed spaces and pits and
     cause asphyxiation, unconsciousness, and death.
  36.6.2. First Aid:
     36.6.2.1. Remove contaminated clothing and wash affected skin areas with soap and
     water.
     36.6.2.2. If fuel is splashed into the eyes, immediately flush the eyes with large amounts
     of water continuously for at least 15 minutes. Get medical attention immediately.
     36.6.2.3. If swallowed, do not induce vomiting. Get medical attention immediately.
  36.6.3. Safety Precautions:
     36.6.3.1. Know the characteristics of the hydrocarbon fuels being handled.
     36.6.3.2. Immediately repair any malfunction of a refueling vehicle‘s exhaust system.
     36.6.3.3. Use only approved electrical plugs, clips, and conductors during servicing
     operations.
     36.6.3.4. Cease fuel operations (except pipeline receipts and military or BX service
     stations) when advised by the weather officer that an thunderstorm is within a 5 nm
     radius of the installation. Do not resume operations until advised to do so by the FSC.
     36.6.3.5. Know which operations require the presence of two people.
     36.6.3.6. Do not wear shoes with exposed nails or metal plates.
     36.6.3.7. Do not remove outer garments around fuel storage or servicing operations since
     this creates static electricity.
     36.6.3.8. Remove rings and other items of jewelry while engaged in fuel operations
     (whenever possible or when required by supervision).
     36.6.3.9. Wear an approved self-contained breathing apparatus when entering confined
     spaces where there are high fuel vapor concentrations. Consult BE personnel for specific
     requirements.
     36.6.3.10. Ensure that eyewashes and personal protective and fire extinguishing
     equipment are available and operational prior to operations involving hydrocarbon fuels.
     36.6.3.11. Ensure that all equipment used in hydrocarbon fuel operations is properly
     grounded.
     36.6.3.12. Immediately clean up Class I fuel spills. For Class II and III fuel spills,
     immediately notify the fire protection organization (vapors from hydrocarbon fuels can
     form dangerous explosive mixtures with air).
 818                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       36.6.3.13. Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after working with fuels.
       36.6.3.14. Remove clothing that has been splashed with hydrocarbon fuels as soon as
       possible. Air dry and launder before using again. Prior to laundering, air out the
       contaminated clothing. Do not place fuel-soaked clothing in lockers or other confined
       spaces. Air clothing until thoroughly dry.
36.7. Hydrocarbon Fuels Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists
in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   36.7.1. Have possible sources of ignition been identified and prohibited from areas where
   flammable vapor may exist? Reference 36.1.5.1
   36.7.2. Have all damaged static grounds been repaired and retested for resistance values?
   Reference 36.1.6.5
   36.7.3. Have all personnel in work environments where petroleum products are present been
   instructed on hazards of static electricity? Reference 36.2.2.2
   36.7.4. Are all personnel involved in fuel handling operations trained in minimizing the
   possibility of fuel spills and proper response procedures if a spill does occur? Reference
   36.2.2.5
   36.7.5. Are proper procedures used when entering petroleum storage tanks? Reference
   36.2.3
   36.7.6. Are the minimum safety features present in locations where petroleum products are
   handled or stored? Reference 36.2.4
   36.7.7. Are emergency shower and eyewash units in place IAW Chapter 19? Reference
   36.2.4.1
   36.7.8. Are fuel transport vehicles electrically bonded to the offloading header during fuel
   handling operations? Reference 36.3.2.2
   36.7.9. Are proper procedures utilized for fuel transfer operations, including gauging and
   temperature measurement? Reference 36.3.2.4
   36.7.10. Is fire protection equipment properly located prior to fuel handling operations?
   Reference 36.3.2.6
   36.7.11. Do local fuel movement procedures include emergency shutdown procedures?
   Reference 36.3.2.9
   36.7.12. Are electrical bonding procedures followed for fuel truck-fillstand operations?
   Reference 36.3.3.3
   36.7.13. Have all sources of ignition been eliminated during aircraft servicing operations?
   Reference 36.4.1
   36.7.14. Has a Fuel Servicing Safety Zone (FSSZ) been established for fuel servicing
   operations? Reference 36.4.1.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                  819



  36.7.15. Do refueling drivers verify the type of aircraft to be serviced is the same type
  aircraft specified on the refueling dispatch log? Reference 36.4.1.5.3
  36.7.16. Are spotters used when backing refueling trucks toward the aircraft? Reference
  36.4.2.2
  36.7.17. Are the specific precautions for hydrant system fueling being followed? Reference
  36.4.3
 820                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 37

 OFFICE/SHOP COMPUTER AND AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING EQUIPMENT
                      (ADPE) AND FACILITIES

37.1. General Information. This chapter has been substantially changed to clarify safety
practices and requirements for office/shop desktop and laptop computers and data processing
operations. Administrative changes have been made as required.
   37.1.1. Hazards. Hazards shall be engineered out, isolated, guarded against or a safer
   chemical used whenever possible before considering the use of Personal Protective
   Equipment (PPE). Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, Chapter 3, Physical
   Hazards, and Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for guidance on other
   hazards which may apply to data processing facilities and operations.
   37.1.2. Human Factors. Managers, supervisors and workers shall be aware of human factors
   that can lead to worker error, injury or adverse effects on their operations. Refer to Chapter
   2, Human Factors, for additional guidance.
       37.1.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. BE personnel perform
       occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments of work processes.
       Supervisors with workplace health hazards questions should contact BE. Refer to
       paragraph 2.3 for additional information.
   37.1.4. Static Hazards. Static electricity can damage electrostatic discharge (ESD) sensitive
   equipment, which includes almost all computers, printers and data processing equipment.
   Protective measures, such as grounding/bonding, conductive floors and benches, humidity
   control, antistatic packaging of spare components and other controls shall be used as needed
   to prevent damage from static electricity.
   37.1.5. Application. This chapter applies to computers located in office/shop environments
   as well as data processing facilities. A data processing facility encompasses the process that
   covers all computerized and auxiliary automated information handling, including systems
   analysis and design, conversion of data, computer programming, information storage and
   retrieval, data and facsimile transmission, requisite system controls, simulation and all related
   interactions between personnel and machines.
37.2. Desktop and Laptop Computers and Related Equipment. Desktop and laptop
computers used in administrative, shop areas and classrooms are considered ADPE and shall be
used and protected as office/shop equipment and tools. Warning: Only communications
equipment approved for hazardous locations shall be used when flammable vapors or other
environmental hazards may be present. Refer to Chapter 23, Confined Spaces, for additional
guidance, as required. Note: All hazardous locations are not considered confined spaces.
   37.2.1. Cord and plug connected computers, servers, local area networks (LAN), multiplex
   (MUX) and related equipment, built to work in an office or shop environment, without the
   need for raised floors or separate environmental control systems, shall be treated as typical
   office/shop equipment, i.e., copiers, printers, typewriters, calculators, fans, desk lights, etc.
   37.2.2. Unless there is some hazard which prevents workers from eating or drinking in the
   work area, allowance of food and drink in these areas is at the discretion of the supervisor.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        821



   37.2.3. The area around computers, printers and related equipment shall be adequate to allow
   sufficient cooling air to reach the equipment. These areas shall be kept clean to prevent
   buildup of paper and other materials which could pose a fire hazard or restrict cooling
   airflow and cause excessive temperatures which could damage equipment or pose a fire
   hazard.
   37.2.4. Cooling fans, filters and heat sinks in computers, printers and related equipment shall
   be checked at least annually, by qualified personnel, for lint and dust buildup which could
   cause overheating or fire. Any buildup of lint or dust shall be removed. More frequent
   inspections and cleanings may be needed in dirty or dusty environments. These inspections
   shall be conducted and documented by qualified personnel as determined locally. The
   installation Communications Squadron may designate overall responsibility at the
   Communications Squadron-level, or more commonly, designate the unit computer section as
   the OPR.
   37.2.5. Cords and cables shall not be placed where they are exposed to damage or pose a fire
   or tripping hazard to personnel.
   37.2.6. Equipment requiring a grounded outlet shall only be connected to a grounded outlet.
   37.2.7. Used laptop batteries shall be disposed of IAW direction from the installation
   Environmental Management office.
   37.2.8. Temporary Power Taps, such as multi-receptacle surge protectors, shall only be used
   to power computers and related equipment, such as lights or fans. Neither power taps nor
   extension cords shall be used with high current items, such as coffee makers, refrigerators,
   microwave ovens, heaters, food preparation equipment, etc. Equipment plugged into power
   taps shall not exceed the capacity of the power tap or facility wiring. Extension cords shall
   not be used with power taps in place of permanent facility wiring. Additionally, extension
   cords, power strips and UPS devices shall not be ―piggy-backed‖ or plugged into each other.
   Note: Heavy-duty, three pronged extension cords may be used temporarily (not to exceed
   two (2) days) when it is not feasible or is impractical to power computer and related
   equipment from facility wiring, such as in large hangars, flight line locations, field
   environments and when using generators.
   37.2.9. Desktop and laptop computers, printers and related equipment may be left on and
   unattended, i.e., nights and weekends.
   37.2.10. To protect against loss of data, some desktop computers are powered through an
   uninterruptible power supply (UPS). In the event of a power outage, personnel shall assume
   all computer, printer, LAN, etc., circuits are energized until properly tested, turned off or
   disconnected from their power supply.
37.3. ADPE and Facility Requirements.
   37.3.1. Proper layout, spacing and arrangement of equipment and machinery are essential to
   safe operations. Good layout of a data processing installation can best be achieved in the
   planning stages by considering current and future uses of the facility. .
822                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  37.3.2. Good housekeeping is important to prevent mishaps in data processing facilities.
  Poor housekeeping may lead to fires, injuries to personnel or unhealthful working conditions.
  Refer to Chapter 5, Housekeeping, for additional guidance.
  37.3.3. All aisle ways within data processing rooms shall be clearly defined and kept free of
  obstructions.
  37.3.4. Suitable noncombustible containers with self-closing lids shall be used for scraps and
  wastes as they accumulate. These containers shall be emptied when full and/or at the end of
  each shift. If not emptied, they shall be moved to a location outside the data processing room.
  Consult the installation environmental management office for disposal guidelines.
  37.3.5. Dropping heavy cartons and other data processing equipment and supplies could
  cause serious injuries to personnel. Adequate normal and emergency lighting helps ensure
  hazardous conditions can be seen and avoided.
  37.3.6. Floor maintenance.
      37.3.6.1. Building floors, especially raised floors in data processing rooms, shall be kept
      smooth, clean and free of obstructions and slippery materials.
      37.3.6.2. Floor loading capacities shall be identified and posted IAW Chapter 7,
      Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and
      Portable and Fixed Ladders. Capacities shall not be exceeded.
      37.3.6.3. Floors shall not be cleaned with flammable liquids or abrasive scrubbing
      powders. If toxic cleaning agents are used, adequate ventilation shall be provided to
      remove vapors. Carpeted floors shall be vacuumed daily, except where high efficiency
      filters are installed in the ventilation system. For rooms with conductive floors, used to
      control static buildup/discharge, cleaning and maintenance products used will not
      adversely affect the conductivity of the floor, i.e., conductive waxes shall be used.
      37.3.6.4. To prevent buildup of trash and foreign objects, sub-floors under raised floors
      in data processing rooms shall be cleaned periodically, but not less than once every 60
      days. If cleaning history shows that a longer period between cleanings is feasible, the Fire
      Protection Flight may allow extending the time between cleanings. Areas under raised
      floors shall not be used for storage. Openings in raised floors, including raised training
      platforms, for electrical cables or other uses shall be protected to preclude collecting
      debris and to prevent tripping. Sub-floors shall be inspected once each operational day to
      ensure no flooding or leaking is present, unless the sub-floor area is provided with an
      automatic water leakage detection system. Note: Any change in facility or room use
      requires reassessment of the cleaning schedule.
      37.3.6.5. Oil, cleaning fluids, water and other substances spilled on data processing room
      floors will not only cause slipping hazards, but may also short-circuit equipment. When
      spills occur, they shall be cleaned up immediately with approved cleaning materials. The
      area beneath raised floors shall also be cleaned if any spilled material penetrates the
      raised floor.
  37.3.7. Electric equipment, such as buffing machines, shall be suitable for use in a data
  processing environment. Equipment requiring a three-wire grounding cord and three-prong
  plug shall be connected to a three wire grounded outlet. Operating procedures for all
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        823



  equipment shall include inspection and maintenance procedures, and any cautions that shall
  be taken during machine operation.
  37.3.8. Tools shall not be left on equipment or lying in aisle ways. Suitable racks or cabinets
  shall be provided for tool storage.
  37.3.9. To prevent electromagnetic interference, electrically-operated vending machines or
  other equipment which may cause interference shall not be installed in data processing rooms
  or rooms containing ADPE, such as remote terminal units or data entry equipment.
  37.3.10. Coat racks shall not be allowed in data processing rooms, since they contribute to
  undesirable traffic, dust and lint conditions.
  37.3.11. Eating or drinking shall not be allowed within data processing rooms or while
  operating remote equipment. Signs prohibiting food or drinks shall be posted at each entrance
  to data processing rooms and at each remote terminal location. Such authorization shall be
  posted in each room or area.
  37.3.12. Materials stored within data processing facility supply rooms shall be neatly stacked
  and readily reached by adequate aisle ways. Care shall be taken to stack materials so they
  shall not topple over. Under no circumstances shall materials be stacked within 18 inches of
  ceiling fire sprinkler heads or Halon nozzles. Material shall be stored so that it does not
  project into aisles or passageways, possibly causing personnel to trip or hindering firefighting
  personnel. Material shall not be stored above suspended ceilings.
  37.3.13. Emergency control switches shall be installed in all data processing rooms and
  located at designated exit doors. These controls shall be readily accessible to operators and
  remain unobstructed at all times. These controls shall disconnect the ventilation system
  serving the room, and selective power to all electrical equipment in the room except lighting.
  Specific power shutdown procedures shall be tailored to the individual facility. In addition,
  these controls shall be plainly marked as to their function and covered to prevent accidental
  shut-off.
  37.3.14. Improper fire prevention practices can be a major source of injury and equipment
  damage. Damages and injuries may result from the improper use of fire extinguishers,
  including using the wrong type of extinguisher agent. For example, water or foam on
  electrical fires may cause equipment damage or pose a shock hazard to people using the
  extinguisher. Carbon dioxide (CO2) used on a cathode-ray tube (CRT) display could cause
  the tube to implode and injure personnel. Flammable cleaning fluids may release toxic gases
  and pose a greater hazard than nonflammable fluids. Inadequately marked egress routes
  could inhibit or prohibit escape in the event of a fire or other emergency. Refer to Chapter 6,
  Fire Protection and Prevention, for additional guidance.
  37.3.15. Only fire suppression and extinguishing equipment approved by the installation
  FES Flight shall be installed within data processing facilities. Refer to Chapter 6, UFC 3-
  600-01, Fire Protection Engineering For Facilities, NFPA 75, Standard for the Protection of
  Information Technology Equipment, or the installation FES Flight for guidance on
  extinguishing agents and systems.
824                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  37.3.16. Toxic fume exposure. Due to the production of toxic fumes from burning plastics,
  the FES Flight shall approve the location, method and quantity of tapes, disk packs and other
  storage media stored in a facility. All changes shall be approved by the FES Flight. Tapes
  and disk packs may need to be stored in separate rooms or vaults. All tape stands, cabinets
  and storage racks shall be of sound construction and shall not exceed seven (7) feet in height.
  Tapes and disk packs shall not be stored in aisles, corners or on top of equipment.
  37.3.17. All non-metal furniture and furnishings within data processing rooms shall be made
  of fire-resistant materials. Only metal or other fire-resistant containers shall be used for the
  storage of operating manuals and frequently used forms, paper and other supplies. Production
  outputs from production runs shall be removed from data processing rooms immediately
  upon completion of the run, unless preliminary checking is required. If preliminary checking
  is required, adequate work space shall be provided. Only non-combustible wastebaskets
  equipped with self-closing lids shall be used. These wastebaskets shall be strategically
  located to reduce traffic in the data processing room and shall be emptied IAW paragraph
  37.3.4.
  37.3.18. Only cleaning materials approved by the equipment manufacturer, TO or other
  guidance shall be used to clean ADPE. To the maximum extent possible, only nonflammable
  and nontoxic cleaning fluids shall be used for cleaning data processing equipment. If it is
  necessary to use flammable or toxic cleaning fluid, no more than a one-day supply shall be
  maintained within the data processing facility. All flammable and toxic cleaning fluids shall
  be stored in approved self-closing metal containers. Only lint-free or treated cloths
  recommended for this type cleaning shall be used with cleaning fluids. Soiled cloths and
  wipes shall be removed from the work area and disposed of IAW paragraph 37.3.4.
  37.3.19. BE shall be advised of routine maintenance procedures that involve the use of
  cleaning chemicals. BE will conduct an OEH risk assessment.
  37.3.20. Many ADPE installations have a UPS and/or backup generators to prevent
  unplanned shutdown of equipment if a power failure occurs. In the event of power failure,
  personnel shall assume all circuits are energized until properly tested or locked out/tagged
  out.
      37.3.20.1. UPS and/or backup generators shall be periodically functional tested to ensure
      they are working properly and to train new personnel on use and maintenance.
      37.3.20.2. Generators and UPS systems shall be maintained by qualified personnel IAW
      applicable TO, manufacturer‘s instructions, NEC and UFC guidance.
  37.3.21. Battery-operated emergency lighting units shall be installed as part of the data
  processing facility‘s fixed electrical wiring system. These units shall provide illumination in
  work areas, hallways and exits in the event of a power failure. Units shall be inspected at
  least annually and immediately repaired or replaced when found to be defective or
  inoperative.
  37.3.22. Illuminated exit signs shall be provided for each exit and passageway. Consult the
  installation FES Flight or refer to NFPA 101, The Life Safety Code, for further guidance.
  37.3.23. To preclude water damage:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         825



       37.3.23.1. Data processing rooms located below floors equipped with water sprinkler
       systems are susceptible to water damage if the sprinkler systems are actuated. Managers
       shall provide a means of protecting data processing equipment in the event of a water
       leak or sprinkler activation (time permitting). This may be accomplished by strategically
       locating pre-cut pieces of plastic sheeting within data processing rooms. In the event of a
       water leak or spill, equipment shall be shut down before it is covered with the plastic
       sheeting. This will reduce the possibility of the equipment overheating and catching on
       fire. The plastic sheeting shall be removed before restarting equipment.
       37.3.23.2. A survey of each data processing facility by the installation CE shall be
       requested to determine if a water hazard exists. The building custodian shall keep the
       completed survey on file and brief incoming personnel during initial safety orientation.
   37.3.24. Contact with energized electrical circuits could result in serious injury or
   electrocution. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, for additional guidance.
   37.3.25. Emergency Equipment (Electrical Safety Boards). Refer to paragraph 8.12 for
   guidance on Electrical Safety Boards.
   37.3.26. When sound levels are suspected to be abnormally high, the supervisor shall contact
   BE and request a sound level survey. If the survey indicates hazardous noise levels, the
   functional manager shall initiate engineering and/or administrative controls, as determined by
   BE. Refer to AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation
   Program, and 29 CFR 1910.95, Occupational Noise Exposure, for additional information.
37.4. Office/Shop Computer and Automatic Data Processing Equipment (ADPE)
Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction,
highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not
included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and
supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique
requirements and/or situations.
   37.4.1. Are hazards engineered out, isolated, guarded against or a safer chemical used
   whenever possible before considering the use of PPE? (Reference 37.1.1)
   37.4.2. Are electrostatic discharge (ESD) sensitive equipment computers, printers and data
   processing equipment protected as needed to prevent damage from static electricity?
   (Reference 37.1.4)
   37.4.3. Do supervisors prohibit eating and drinking in hazardous work areas? (Reference
   37.2.2)
   37.4.4. Is sufficient cooling air available for computers, printers and related equipment?
   (Reference 37.2.3)
   37.4.5. Is the area around computers, printers and related equipment kept clean to prevent
   buildup of paper and other materials which could pose a fire hazard or restrict cooling
   airflow and cause excessive temperatures which could damage equipment or pose a fire
   hazard? (Reference 37.2.3)
826                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  37.4.6. Are cooling fans, filters and heat sinks in computers, printers and related equipment
  checked at least annually, by qualified personnel, for lint and dust buildup which could cause
  overheating or fire? (Reference 37.2.4)
  37.4.7. Are cords and cables placed such that they do not pose a fire hazard or a tripping
  hazard to personnel? (Reference 37.2.5)
  37.4.8. Are used laptop batteries disposed of IAW direction from the installation
  Environmental Management office? (Reference 37.2.7)
  37.4.9. Are power taps and extension cords prohibited from use with high current items,
  such as coffee makers, microwave ovens, heaters, food preparation equipment, etc.?
  (Reference 37.2.8)
  37.4.10. Does equipment plugged into power taps exceed the capacity of the power tap or
  facility wiring? (Reference 37.2.8)
  37.4.11. Are all aisle ways within data processing rooms clearly defined and kept free of
  obstructions? (Reference 37.3.3)
  37.4.12. Are suitable noncombustible containers used for scraps and wastes as they
  accumulate? (Reference 37.3.4)
  37.4.13. Are building floors, especially raised floors in data processing rooms, kept smooth,
  clean and free of obstructions and slippery materials? (Reference 37.3.6.1)
  37.4.14. Are floor loading capacities identified and posted? (Reference 37.3.6.2)
  37.4.15. Are rooms with conductive floors cleaned and maintained with products which will
  not adversely affect the conductivity of the floor? (Reference 37.3.6.3)
  37.4.16. Are sub-floors under raised floors in data processing rooms cleaned periodically,
  but not less than once every 60 days, unless extended by the FES Flight? (Reference
  37.3.6.4)
  37.4.17. Is storage prohibited in sub-floor areas? (Reference 37.3.6.4)
  37.4.18. Is the area beneath raised floors cleaned if any spilled material penetrates the raised
  floor? (Reference 37.3.6.5)
  37.4.19. Are signs prohibiting food or drinks posted at each entrance to data processing
  rooms and at each remote terminal location? (Reference 37.3.11)
  37.4.20. If supervisors determine food and drink are authorized in data entry equipment
  rooms, is such authorization posted in each data entry room or area? (Reference 37.3.11)
  37.4.21. Is storage of materials above suspended ceilings prohibited? (Reference 37.3.12)
  37.4.22. Are plainly marked emergency control switches installed in all data processing
  rooms and located at designated exit doors? (Reference 37.3.13)
  37.4.23. Does the FES Flight approve the location, method and quantity of tapes, disk packs
  and other data storage media stored in a facility? (Reference 37.3.16)
  37.4.24. Are battery-operated emergency lighting units immediately repaired or replaced
  when found to be defective or inoperative? (Reference 37.3.21)
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    827



  37.4.25. Are illuminated exit signs provided for each exit and passageway? (Reference
  37.3.22)
  37.4.26. Has a survey of each data processing facility been completed by the installation CE
  to determine if a water hazard exists? (Reference 37.3.23.2)
 828                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 38

                                MULTIMEDIA OPERATIONS

38.1. Specific Requirements.
   38.1.1. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) information on all lab chemicals shall be
   immediately accessible to all workers. Ensure MSDS are obtained for any new chemicals or
   products. All workers shall know and understand the hazards present in their job tasks. Refer
   to AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, for additional guidance and training requirements.
   38.1.2. Good housekeeping practices shall be followed in all areas, especially in areas where
   chemicals are handled.
   38.1.3. Ensure processing rooms have adequate ventilation, typically eight air changes per
   hour. Refer to UFC 3-410-01FA, Mechanical Design Heating, Ventilation and Air
   Conditioning, and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
   Operations and Maintenance, for additional information and guidance.
   38.1.4. Maintenance personnel and visitors shall avoid skin contact with chemicals or work
   surfaces contaminated with chemical residues. All personnel shall be briefed on hazards in
   the photographic facility prior to entry and commencing work.
   38.1.5. Store all chemicals in cool, dry, dark areas or as directed by the manufacturer.
   Maintain separate storage areas for chemicals that are known to react violently with each
   other.
   38.1.6. Store chemicals on shelves strong enough to support their loads. Design each shelf
   with coping or front ledges to prevent containers and equipment from extending over the
   edges or inadvertently falling. Chemical storage areas or rooms shall be sloped and drained
   into an approved holding tank or be capable of containing a spill.
   38.1.7. Keep all corrosive chemicals in thick-walled or shatterproof glass containers
   protected by wooden frames or boxes. If the capacity of the container is five (5) gallons or
   more, support the frame by a sturdy wooden or metal cradle that is pivoted or hinged for ease
   in dispensing.
   38.1.8. Ignition sources are not allowed in photographic laboratories. Post appropriate signs
   at entrances.
   38.1.9. All electrical sources in wet locations shall meet appropriate electrical standards.
   Electrical equipment shall be protected with a ground fault circuit interrupter or circuit
   breaker. Refer to NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, for additional electrical guidance.
38.2. Communications. Photographic darkrooms and laboratories may have small special use
rooms where personnel could be isolated. All such rooms shall be linked by an intercom system
or other means for routine communication and in case of illness, accident or emergencies. Where
required, this intercom must be intrinsically safe. An audible/visible alarm may be fitted to alert
other staff members of a problem in darkrooms.
38.3. Eyewash and Emergency Shower Units. Supervisors or facility managers shall ensure
units are available so workers exposed to hazardous chemicals can flush their eyes and bodies.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        829



Contact the installation Ground Safety Office to determine the type of equipment required. Refer
to Chapter 19, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units, for additional guidance and information
on shower/eyewash units.
38.4. Fire Safety and Emergency Requirements. A multi-purpose ABC dry chemical portable
fire extinguisher shall be present in each laboratory. The location of each extinguisher shall be
clearly marked. Refer to Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention, or the installation Fire
Emergency Services (FES) Flight for information on location, type and placement of fire
extinguishers. Refer to paragraph 6.3 for additional guidance on emergency lighting and exit
markings.
38.5. Electronic Flash Equipment. Supervisors shall ensure workers are aware of potential
risks associated with flash equipment. Electronic flash equipment is designed to work at a high
voltage, typically 450 to 4000 volts. When charged, the flash capacitors carry a heavy electrical
charge, which must be depleted or ―bled off‖ before any repair work is attempted. There may be
an additional danger from sparking of the contact points in the power packs.
   38.5.1. Supervisors/functional managers shall ensure only qualified personnel who have
   received training service high voltage electronic flash equipment.
   38.5.2. Do not operate electronic flash equipment in potentially hazardous atmospheres
   containing explosive vapors, dusts or fumes above the Lower Explosive Limit (LEL).
   38.5.3. A flash unit shall not be charged for firing unless the flash lamp is installed and the
   complete assembly is ready for use. If the assembly was not fired after it was charged, and
   approved procedures for discharging the high voltage capacitor are not available, the flash
   lamp shall not be removed for at least an hour.
   38.5.4. The power cord shall be disconnected from the power pack before removing the
   lamp or touching the metal part of the lamp socket.
   38.5.5. Before the batteries are removed, workers shall ensure the assembly has been
   discharged and that the charging switch has been changed from the ―charge‖ position.
   38.5.6. Stored energy in electronic flash units can be lethal. Depending on the rate of
   discharge, the amount of current can cause severe burns or fatal injury to a worker. Workers
   shall follow the manufacturer‘s instruction for the proper waiting time to deplete any stored
   charge before removing a broken tube from strobe equipment. Note: Newer flash products
   have a misfire alarm with a reset feature that bleeds off stored energy. Follow the
   manufacturer‘s instructions for safe operations of flash equipment.
38.6. Photography of Research Materials.
   38.6.1. Photographers shall consult with clients to determine hazards that may be associated
   with the materials being photographed. Clients shall be responsible for providing required
   PPE to photographers prior to materials being photographed. Some examples of hazards that
   could be associated with research materials are:
       38.6.1.1. Biological pathogens present in cultures.
       38.6.1.2. Chemical hazards in some biochemical samples.
       38.6.1.3. Corrosive chemical solvents in gel samples (e.g., ammonia, acetic acid).
 830                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       38.6.1.4. Radiation hazards.
       38.6.1.5. Ultraviolet (UV) light from fluorescent materials
   38.6.2. Supervisors and photographers shall be briefed on the specific hazards associated
   with the research materials, PPE required and any special program requirements associated
   with the materials. Consult the installation Ground Safety Office or BE for additional
   information on specific hazards associated with research materials.
38.7. Disposal of Photographic Chemicals.
   38.7.1. Current photographic chemicals are predominantly water-based, with individual
   chemicals designed to be biodegradable. Consult the installation Environmental Management
   office for guidance on disposal of photographic chemicals.
   38.7.2. Pretreatment of used chemicals requires recovery of silver from all fixing and
   bleaching operations, and pH balancing where necessary to control extreme pH levels.
   Hazardous chemicals or solvents shall be disposed IAW guidance from the installation
   Environmental Management office.
38.8. Multimedia Operations Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   38.8.1. Have photographic laboratory personnel been trained in AFI 90-821, Hazardous
   Communication, procedures? Reference 38.1.1
   38.8.2. Are processing rooms ventilation systems designed to meet UFC 3-410-01FA and
   ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and
   Maintenance 0 requirements? Reference 38.1.3
   38.8.3. Are all maintenance personnel and visitors briefed on hazards in the photographic
   facility prior to entry and commencing work? Reference 38.1.4
   38.8.4. Are chemicals stored in compliance with the guidelines provided by their MSDS?
   Reference 38.1.5
   38.8.5. Do floor drains in the chemical storage area connect to holding tanks? Reference
   38.1.6
   38.8.6. Are corrosives stored in shatterproof or thick-walled glass containers protected with
   wooded/plastic frames? Reference 38.1.7
   38.8.7. Do electrical sources in wet locations meet appropriate electrical standards?
   Reference 38.1.9
   38.8.8. Is an inter-room communication/alarm system installed in the photographic
   laboratory areas where workers can be isolated? Reference 38.2
   38.8.9. Are eyewash and emergency shower facilities available in areas where hazardous
   chemicals are handled? Reference 38.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   831



  38.8.10. Are the fire extinguishers of the correct size, type and quantity available in the
  facility per the installation FES Flight? Reference 38.4
  38.8.11. Are all egress pathways identified and labeled with signage visible in normal
  lighting and in subdued lighting? Reference 38.4.2
  38.8.12. Are all exits pathways kept clear to facilitate the evacuation of the workspace?
  Reference 38.4.3
  38.8.13. Are photographers who use electronic flash equipment trained on the potential
  hazards associated with the equipment? Reference 38.5
  38.8.14. Do photographers consult with clients on hazards they may be exposed to prior to
  photographic assignments? Reference 38.6.1
  38.8.15. Are all photographic chemicals disposed of in compliance with the installation
  Environmental Management office? Reference 38.7.2
 832                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 39

                   LAUNDRIES AND DRY CLEANING OPERATIONS

39.1. Specific Requirements. The purpose of a laundry or dry cleaners is to produce clean
garments. Establishments for washing, drying and dry cleaning range from hand laundries to
highly mechanized plants. Sanitary or industrial hazards may occur at any point in the process,
from delivery of contaminated clothing to the finished product.
   39.1.1. All materials to be dry-cleaned shall be searched thoroughly in the receiving room
   and all foreign materials, especially patches and metallic substances, shall be removed.
   39.1.2. Personnel working in the processing area of laundries or dry cleaning plants shall
   wear clean, washable outer garments in lieu of street clothing.
   39.1.3. Personal hygiene shall be stressed. Frequent hand washing, particularly after visiting
   the toilet or handling soiled linen, is mandatory.
   39.1.4. Systems. For the purpose of this standard, dry cleaning plants or systems shall be
   classified as follows:
       39.1.4.1. Type I—Systems employing Class I solvents are prohibited by this standard,
       e.g., 50° F (10° C) flash point naphtha.
       39.1.4.2. Type II—Systems employing Class II solvents, e.g., Stoddard solvent.
       39.1.4.3. Type IIIA—Systems employing Class IIIA solvents, e.g., 140° F (60° C)
       solvent.
       39.1.4.4. Type IIIB—Systems employing Class IIIB liquids, e.g., specially compounded
       oils.
       39.1.4.5. Type IV—Systems employing Class IV solvents (non-flammable).
   39.1.5. Application. This guideline is for the commercial type laundries and dry cleaning
   plants used in the Air Force. This standard applies to installation facilities including billeting
   laundries and laundry facilities in shops/workplaces.
39.2. Facility Requirements.
   39.2.1. Laundry and dry cleaning premises shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
   condition, free from rodents and insect infestations. Refer to Chapter 5, Housekeeping, for
   additional housekeeping guidance.
   39.2.2. Floors shall be cleaned daily using a dustless method. Paper and trash shall be placed
   in covered containers and lint removed from bulk-heads, overheads and structural supports,
   as necessary.
   39.2.3. Slippery floor surfaces or work decks shall be mopped dry or mats provided to
   minimize slipping hazards. Aisles shall not be cluttered with laundry bags or other materials.
   39.2.4. Plumbing fixtures and appliances shall be installed IAW AFI 32-1066, Backflow
   Prevention Program, maintained in good repair and kept in a sanitary condition. These
   fixtures and appliances shall be connected to prevent backflow into or cross-connections with
   the facility potable water supply.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      833



  39.2.5. Sanitary water fountains shall be provided for drinking water and shall be located
  away from the industrial process.
  39.2.6. Eating, cooking, smoking or storage of food, drinks or smoking material is prohibited
  in rooms where clothing is handled, sorted, marked, washed or dry cleaned. A separate room
  or space shall be provided if meals are eaten on the premises.
  39.2.7. Laundries and dry cleaning plants shall have separate areas designated for receiving
  and issue. Unwashed clothes must never be received, sorted, marked or handled in close
  proximity to washed clothes.
  39.2.8. Rooms or spaces shall be designed, and machines and equipment arranged so a
  separate flow of clean and soiled garments is maintained throughout the laundry or cleaning
  process. This flow requires separate contact surfaces, such as tables, carts, shelves, etc.
  Ventilation must move air from clean to soiled areas to prevent cross contamination.
  39.2.9. Workrooms associated with laundry and dry cleaning operations where machinery or
  apparatus emit steam, vapors or heat shall be properly ventilated. Such operations shall have
  general and/or local exhaust ventilation to minimize personnel exposure to potentially
  hazardous materials/agents. Clean, tempered replacement (supply) air shall be provided. The
  ventilation system of all dry cleaning equipment shall be designed to automatically draw air
  into the machine upon opening the loading door, thus preventing the release of solvent
  vapors into the work area. Any proposed changes or modifications to the ventilation system
  shall be coordinated with BE for review. Refer to UFC 3-410-01FA, Heating, Ventilating,
  and Air Conditioning, paragraph 4.17., and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of
  Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance, for additional guidance.
  39.2.10. All steam and hot water pipes within seven (7) feet of the floor or working surface
  shall be insulated with approved (non-asbestos) insulation/lagging and labeled properly with
  the direction of flow. Backflow preventers shall be installed as required to prevent chemicals
  from flowing into the sanitary water line.
  39.2.11. Adequate lighting levels shall be maintained in all work areas. Refer to 29 CFR
  1926.26, General Safety and Health Provisions, Illumination and 1926.56, Illumination, for
  additional guidance.
  39.2.12. No interlock safeguard, safety appliance or device, attached to or forming an
  integral part of any machinery, shall be removed or made ineffective except for the purpose
  of making immediate repairs or adjustments. Any such interlock safeguard, safety appliance
  or device removed or made ineffective during the repair or adjustment of such machinery
  shall be replaced immediately upon the completion of such repairs or adjustments.
  39.2.13. Automatic safety devices on all equipment shall be clearly identified, properly
  maintained and shall not be removed or bypassed.
  39.2.14. Each washing machine, drying tumbler, shaker or clothes tumbler shall be provided
  with a means to hold open the doors or covers of inner and outer cylinders or shells while
  being loaded or unloaded.
 834                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   39.2.15. Laundry and dry cleaning equipment shall be guarded to prevent worker contact
   with dangerous parts. Drive shafts, exposed belts and gears shall be enclosed. Refer to
   Chapter 18, Machinery, for additional guidance on machine guarding.
   39.2.16. Signs shall be conspicuously posted to warn unauthorized personnel to stay clear of
   dangerous or restricted areas.
   39.2.17. First aid kits shall be provided if the facility is more than 3 or 4 minutes from a
   medical facility. First aid kits shall be inspected and maintained IAW installation medical
   facility guidance.
   39.2.18. Fire regulations shall be prominently displayed and enforced.
   39.2.19. Flammable and combustible liquids shall not be used for cleaning floors.
   39.2.20. Vehicles and containers used for transportation and storage of laundry and dry
   cleaning shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
39.3. Supervisors Responsibilities.
   39.3.1. Ensure compliance with occupational safety, fire prevention and health program
   requirements.
   39.3.2. Provide a safe and healthful workplace.
   39.3.3. Establish and implement a hazard reporting and abatement program. Conduct a job
   safety analysis (JSA) for each work task not governed by TO or other applicable directives
   and when a new work task or process is introduced to the workplace to determine potential
   hazards. Consult the installation Ground Safety office and BE for assistance with the JSA.
   39.3.4. Provide occupational safety, fire prevention and protection, and health training for
   workers as required by OSH guidelines. Training shall be documented on AF IMT 55,
   Employee Safety and Health Record, or equivalent IAW AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
   Mishap Prevention Program.
       39.3.4.1. Workers shall be properly instructed on hazards of their work and in safe
       practices, by bulletins, printed rules, verbal instructions, CBTs and Safety, Fire and
       Health On-the-Job Training (OJT) or by normal training programs.
       39.3.4.2. Training shall include safety, first aid and use of health controls to include PPE.
       Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), AFI 90-821, Hazard
       Communication, and 29 CFR 1910.151., Medical Services and First Aid. Contact BE for
       an OEH risk assessment.
   39.3.5. Ensure only properly trained workers operate laundry/dry cleaning equipment.
   39.3.6. Ensure workers who handle soiled clothes are warned not to touch their eyes, mouth
   or other body parts where the skin has been broken, scratched or abraded. Caution: Ensure
   markers, those who receive articles of clothing for laundry/dry cleaning, do not touch or eat
   any food until they have thoroughly washed their hands.
   39.3.7. Conduct self-inspections of laundries and dry cleaning facilities for hazards or
   deficiencies at least quarterly. Copies of these inspections shall be maintained on file until
   the next higher headquarters inspection. Supervisors shall use the requirements of this
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        835



   chapter, Figure 39.1 and guidance/information from higher headquarters or other
   inspections, as applicable, to prepare their self-inspection checklist.
39.4. Safety.
   39.4.1. Appropriate control measures shall be used to ensure airborne concentrations of dry
   cleaning solvent vapors do not exceed safe levels determined by BE.
   39.4.2. Spills of Cleaning Materials or Solvents. The installation Fire Emergency Services
   (FES) Flight shall be immediately notified of any flammable solvent spills. Cleanup of
   solvent spills shall be IAW installation spill prevention control and reporting plans. Contact
   BE and/or Environmental Management office for additional guidance and information on
   spill procedures.
   39.4.3. Machinery producing potentially hazardous noise/vibration levels shall be identified
   and corrective measures initiated IAW BE‘s OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraphs 2.3
   and 3.1.2.11 for additional guidance.
   39.4.4. Eye protection (chemical splash proof goggles, face shields, etc.) is required where
   splashes may occur such as replenishment of dry cleaning fluid or the addition of bleaches
   and detergents. An emergency shower and/or eye wash station shall be provided within the
   work area. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and Chapter 19,
   Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units, for additional guidance and information on PPE and
   eyewash units.
   39.4.5. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) shall be maintained in the workcenter for
   chemicals being used. Workers shall familiarize themselves with the MSDS prior to using the
   chemical.
39.5. Fire Prevention and Protection.
   39.5.1. Fire Protection (General). Fire extinguishing systems and equipment shall be
   installed, inspected, tested and maintained IAW Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention,
   NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, NPFA 13, Standard for the Installation
   of Sprinkler Systems, and UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities. Refer to
   the above-mentioned references for additional guidance and detailed information.
   39.5.2. Automatic Fire Extinguishing Systems. Automatic fire extinguishing systems shall
   be periodically inspected, tested and maintained IAW the manufacturers‘ operation and
   maintenance manuals, and the installation FES Flight procedures.
   39.5.3. Portable Fire Extinguishers. Suitable numbers and types of portable fire
   extinguishers, as recommended by the installation FES Flight, shall be installed and
   maintained throughout the dry-cleaning room/facility.
   39.5.4. Floors in dry-cleaning rooms shall be of fire-resistant construction with a surface of
   noncombustible and solvent-resistant surface.
39.6. Storage and Handling.
   39.6.1. All employees shall be informed of the hazards of the solvents and processes
   employed in the plant and shall be trained in the proper storage, handling, use and disposal of
   materials and wastes.
 836                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   39.6.2. Lint and Refuse Removal. Lint and refuse shall be removed from all traps at the end
   of each day, deposited in approved waste cans, removed from the premises and disposed of
   safely. Trap covers shall remain securely in place at all other times.
   39.6.3. Spill and Leak Prevention. Proper maintenance and operating practices shall be
   followed to prevent leakage or unintentional escape of solvent or solvent vapors. Where
   solvent-saturated materials are manually transferred from one piece of equipment to another,
   operating practices shall be designed to minimize the amount of solvent dripping on the
   floor.
   39.6.4. Hazardous and flammable materials used in laundry and dry cleaning processes shall
   be stored IAW Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles.
39.7. Hospital/Health Care Facility Laundry.
   39.7.1. The Joint Commission or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
   (AAAHC) standards for linen management shall be followed. Proper linen management
   requires a joint effort of the Infection Control Committee, the Preventive Medicine Service
   and laundry supervisory personnel. Hospitals/medical facilities using commercial linen
   services shall establish adequate quality assurance procedures.
   39.7.2. The handling of linen in or from hospitals/medical facilities is critical to prevent
   bacterial contamination from infected patients. The normal laundering process (hot water
   wash, bleach and ironing) reduces the survival of pathogenic microorganisms. Individual
   impervious laundry bags shall be used for each area. Linen carts shall be lined with washable
   material that can be removed and replaced. Linen shall only be sorted in the laundry sorting
   room. Sorting prior to washing shall be done by trained personnel wearing clean uniforms,
   masks and gloves. Any sharp objects, such as broken glass, surgical instruments, etc., shall
   be carefully removed by sorting personnel to prevent injury to personnel or damage to
   machinery and linen.
   39.7.3. Contaminated laundry from isolation rooms, surgical cases, etc., requires special
   precautions and personnel shall be specifically trained on procedures and potential health
   implications (i.e., blood borne pathogens, other potentially infectious materials, etc.) of
   handling contaminated articles. Contaminated linen shall be received in impervious, well
   sealed double bags. The outer bag shall be labeled with the universal biohazard symbol, the
   word ―Biohazard,‖ or be red in color. The inner bag must be hot water soluble. Contaminated
   linen shall not be sorted. Follow the latest Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
   guidelines for blood and body fluid exposures to blood borne pathogens as stated in the
   facility Infection Control Program. Refer to AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program, for
   additional guidance.
39.8. Laundries and Dry Cleaning Operations Checklist. This is not an all inclusive
checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within
this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate,
MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to
include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   39.8.1. Are plumbing and appliances installed IAW AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention
   Program? Reference 39.2.4
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     837



  39.8.2. Are signs prominently displayed reminding workers to wash their hands after using
  toilet facilities? Reference 39.2.6
  39.8.3. Is ingestion and preparation of food items prohibited in working areas? Reference
  39.2.7.
  39.8.4. Are separate areas provided for processing clean and dirty clothing? Reference
  39.2.8
  39.8.5. Is proper ventilation provided to remove hazardous vapors and excess moisture from
  the facility? Reference 39.2.10
  39.8.6. Are all machine safety devices in place and properly maintained? Reference 39.2.13
  39.8.7. Are workers instructed as to the hazards of the work? Reference 39.3.4.1
  39.8.8. Are workers made aware of the required health/safety controls to include PPE?
  Reference 39.3.4.2
  39.8.9. Are workers informed of the hazards of touching their skin after exposure to dirty
  clothing? Reference 39.3.6
  39.8.10. Are BE approved hearing protection devices used when engineering and/or
  administrative controls are not feasible? Reference 39.4.3
  39.8.11. Are facility fire detection and protection devices in place and operating properly?
  Reference 39.5.1
  39.8.12. Are fire detection and protection devices tested on a periodic basis IAW appropriate
  references? Reference 39.5.1
  39.8.13. Are floors in dry cleaning rooms fire resistant and covered with solvent resistant
  materials? Reference 39.5.4
  39.8.14. Are all lint traps and collection points cleaned at the end of each day? Reference
  39.6.2
  39.8.15. Are hazardous and flammable materials stored IAW Chapter 22 requirements?
  39.8.16. Is contaminated laundry from a health care facility received in impervious laundry
  bags? Reference 39.7.2
  39.8.17. Are workers trained on the special precautions for handling of contaminated
  articles? Reference 39.7.3
 838                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 40

                                    COMPRESSED GASES

40.1. General Requirements.
   40.1.1. Applicability. The large amount of stored energy in compressed gas cylinders
   presents a potential mishap hazard. All workers who store, handle or use such items shall be
   thoroughly familiar with procedures and safety requirements relating to their use.
       40.1.1.1. Workers using compressed gas shall be familiar with the properties and
       inherent hazards of the products they use. Information pertaining to each specific gas is
       contained within its product labeling and Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). Note:
       Compliance with precautions provided on product labels and MSDSs is mandatory.
       40.1.1.2. Refer to the following documents for additional information: 29 CFR 1910
       Subpart H, Hazardous Materials, 1910.101 Compressed Gases (General Requirements),
       NFPA 55, Standard for the Storage, Use, and Handling of Compressed Gases and
       Cryogenic Fluids in Portable and Stationary Containers, Cylinders, and Tanks, and the
       Compressed Gas Association (CGA).
   40.1.2. Responsibilities.
       40.1.2.1. Supervisors shall ensure only trained workers handle or use compressed gas
       cylinders. Supervisors shall ensure valves, hoses, pipes, etc., are compatible with the
       compressed gases being used and non-compatible with breathing air. Warning: Valves,
       hoses, pipes, etc., used with breathing air will not be interchanged with other compressed
       gases under any circumstances, even though the parts may be physically compatible.
       40.1.2.2. Workers are responsible for the safe use of the container/cylinder and its
       contents and for returning the container/cylinder to the gas manufacturer or distributor in
       the same condition as received. The worker shall ensure the cylinder and attached
       equipment are in proper working condition and any discrepancies are fixed or reported to
       the supervisor.
40.2. Specific Care and Use.
   40.2.1. All cylinders shall be inspected for damage, i.e., dents, gouges, evidence of leakage
   or cracks before use. Damaged cylinders shall be tagged, ―Out of Service,‖ and returned to
   the manufacturer or distributor. Compressed gas cylinders must be hydrostatically tested
   every five (5) years. Check the cylinder upon arrival for the test date, usually stamped on the
   neck of the cylinder. Do not accept a cylinder if the most recent test date is more than five (5)
   years old. Workers shall store the cylinder with the newest delivery behind older deliveries to
   ensure cylinders are used in the sequence received.
       40.2.1.1. Cylinders shall be hydrostatically tested IAW DoD and Department of
       Transportation (DOT) regulations. Refer to AFMAN 23-227(I), Storage and Handling of
       Liquefied and Gaseous Compressed Gases and Their Full and Empty Cylinders,
       paragraph 3-3, Cylinder Re-qualification, and MIL-STD-1411A, Department of Defense,
       Inspection and Maintenance of Compressed Gas Cylinders, for additional guidance.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          839



     40.2.1.2. Each time a cylinder is re-qualified, the date of the test or inspection indicating
     the month and year shall be stamped into the shoulder, collar or foot ring of the cylinder
     with a steel stamp. This date is used to determine the next scheduled re-qualification date.
     The service period for each type of cylinder is considered expired if the latest marked re-
     qualification date precedes the current date by more than the period indicated in
     AFMAN23-227(I). Cylinders shall not be accepted or used if the re-qualification date
     does not meet specifications. Figure 40.1 is an example of typical cylinder parts and
     markings, and their locations, that shall be inspected upon receipt of a cylinder.
  40.2.2. Workers must know cylinder contents. Do not use a cylinder if you cannot quickly
  determine its contents either by wording on the cylinder or a tag securely attached to the
  cylinder. If the tag has become detached or the label defaced, do not use the cylinder. Do not
  rely on color coding of the cylinder. Different manufacturers use different color codes.
     40.2.2.1. US Air Force- or Department of Defense-owned cylinders will be color-coded
     and contents stenciled on the cylinder IAW MIL-STD-101B, Color Code for Pipelines
     and Compressed Gas Cylinders, as in Table 40.1 Color codes for commonly used gases
     will be posted in the cylinder storage area. Two (2) DD Form 1574s, Serviceable Tag—
     Materiel, shall be placed on all cylinders. The first tag is used to identify the contents of
     the cylinder and the second tag will identify the cylinder. Additionally, the cylinder will
     carry a DOT identification label and a hazard class label. For commercially filled
     cylinders, the user is responsible for affixing a three (3) part cylinder status tag (Full, In-
     use, Empty), which is useful for identifying content status and cylinder inventory. Refer
     to TO 42B5-1-2, Use, Handling, and Maintenance Instruction – Storage Type Gas
     Cylinders, paragraphs 2.2. and 2.2.a. for additional guidance and information.
  40.2.3. Workers shall be aware of the flammability, corrosiveness or oxidation potential as
  well as the physiological properties, i.e., toxic, anesthetic or irritating, of compressed gases
  they use or handle.
  40.2.4. Handle all cylinders carefully. Careless handling may damage cylinders and valves.
  Install valve and dust covers when cylinders are not in use. Use cylinders for no purpose
  other than containing compressed gases; handle them with the same care whether full or
  empty.
  40.2.5. Secure all cylinders, whether in use or in storage, full or empty, by using a chain or
  other fastening device to a solid fixture (wall, stanchion, etc.) to prevent cylinders from
  falling over. Non-metallic or synthetic straps may be used to secure non-flammable gases,
  except oxygen.
  40.2.6. Move cylinders safely. Appropriate dollies or hand trucks shall be used to move
  cylinders weighing more than 50 pounds (see Figure 40.2). The cylinder shall be secured to
  the hand-truck prior to and during movement. Movement by spinning, sliding, rolling, etc., is
  prohibited. Cylinders less than 50 pounds may be moved without using a dolly or hand-truck.
  Note: Personnel shall be aware of the potential for injury if improper lifting techniques are
  used when lifting cylinders.
     40.2.6.1. Electromagnets or slings shall not be used to move cylinders.
840                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      40.2.6.2. Cylinders shall not be moved unless the regulator is removed and the protective
      cap is in place and securely fastened to the cylinder. (Cylinders secured to a hand-truck,
      i.e., oxy-acetylene welding torches, are exempt from this requirement as long as
      regulators and hoses are connected to the cylinders.)
  40.2.7. Some gases/cylinders pose problems if placed in a horizontal position. Keep all
  cylinders in a vertical position at all times, unless the cylinders are designed to work in a
  horizontal position, i.e., lift truck propane cylinders.
  40.2.8. Do not tamper with cylinder valves or any part of a valve, such as a safety nut or
  stem-packing nut.
  40.2.9. Use cylinders only with the appropriate equipment. Do not force connections or use
  unauthorized adapters. Never use a cylinder without a regulator.
  40.2.10. Always close the cylinder valve when the cylinder is not in use or when it is empty.
  Replace safety covers and dust caps.
  40.2.11. Oxygen will support the rapid combustion of most materials. Flammable materials,
  such as oil, paint or grease, may ignite if exposed to pressurized oxygen gas.
      40.2.11.1. Most compressed oxygen is not intended for breathing and shall not be
      substituted for air used in ventilation systems. Oxygen will not be used as a substitute for
      compressed air.
      40.2.11.2. Never oil or grease an oxygen regulator. If oil or grease is found on an oxygen
      cylinder or regulator, it must be taken out of service immediately and the cylinder
      returned to the supplier.
  40.2.12. Before attempting to place regulators or other fittings on a cylinder, ensure the
  threads on the cylinder match those on the fittings. The type of thread, number of threads per
  inch and the hand of the thread must match to ensure a satisfactory seal. If the fittings are
  hard to turn, do not force them; instead, check the threads.
  40.2.13. Open cylinder valves slowly (cracking) so the gas is not released suddenly into the
  regulators. Operate valve hand-wheels only by hand. Do not use cheaters or pipes. Cylinders
  without fixed hand-wheels shall be equipped with keys, handles or nonadjustable wrenches
  on the valve stems during the time they are in service.
  40.2.14. Before removing a regulator from a cylinder, close the control valves and allow the
  gas to escape from the regulator. Welders shall not leave an area with regulators or lines
  pressurized.
  40.2.15. On oxygen cylinders, do not use a regulator previously used for oil-pumped gases
  or any combustible gases. Gauges on oxygen regulators shall be marked, ―USE NO OIL.‖
  40.2.16. Acetylene is a colorless, flammable gas with a distinctive garlic-like odor. A
  mixture of this gas with oxygen or air in a confined area will explode on contact with a flame
  or other ignition source. A pressure-reducing regulator must be used when drawing acetylene
  from a cylinder. Acetylene delivery pressure shall not exceed 15 psig or 30 psia.
      40.2.16.1. Acetylene readily forms explosive compounds with copper, silver and
      mercury. Avoid contact between acetylene and these metals, their salts, compounds and
      high-concentration alloys.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        841



      40.2.16.2. Acetylene cylinders will never be placed on their sides, or laid down for any
      reason.
   40.2.17. Only cylinders that are in use should be located in the lab or work area. Cylinders
   shall be secured by a chain or other effective fastening device to a solid fixture (wall,
   stanchion, etc.) to prevent cylinders from falling over. Spare or empty cylinders shall only be
   stored in a designated storage area.
   40.2.18. Compressed gas cylinders represent a hazard because the gases may be:
      40.2.18.1. Flammable. These gases can burn or explode if ignited.
      40.2.18.2. Asphyxiants (Inert). Gases that are chemically inactive, but may displace
      oxygen and cause death.
      40.2.18.3. Oxidizers. Oxidizing gases such as compressed oxygen and nitrous oxide do
      not burn, but support combustion of flammable materials by releasing oxygen or other
      oxidizing substances. Increasing the concentration of an oxidizer can stimulate and
      accelerate combustion. Materials that are nonflammable under normal conditions may
      burn in oxygen-enriched atmospheres.
      40.2.18.4. Corrosive. A gas that causes destruction of living tissue by chemical action.
      40.2.18.5. Toxic. A gas that may cause illness or death if inhaled, ingested or from skin
      contact. Refer to 29 CFR 1910.1200., Hazard Communication, for additional
      information.
      40.2.18.6. Extremely Cold (Cryogenic). A cryogenic liquid has a boiling point below
      minus 150º F (minus 65.5º C) at 14.7 psia.
40.3. Storage.
   40.3.1. All cylinders shall be secured by a metal chain, straps, braces or other restraining
   devices to a solid fixture (wall, stanchion, etc.) to prevent cylinders from falling over.
   Synthetic, i.e., nylon, straps shall not be used to secure cylinders of flammable gases or
   oxygen. While in storage, cylinder valve protection caps shall be firmly in place. Refer to
   Figure 40.3 for examples of recommended and not recommended methods for securing
   cylinders.
      40.3.1.1. Doors or gates for gas cylinder supply areas shall be locked.
      40.3.1.2. Enclosures for gas supply systems shall not be used for storage purposes other
      than for cylinders.
      40.3.1.3. Cylinders attached to a manifold shall also be secured to solid fixtures to
      prevent the cylinder from falling over.
      40.3.1.4. The enclosure shall be posted as a ―No Smoking Area.‖
   40.3.2. Do not store cylinders in locations where temperatures may exceed 125ºF (51.7ºC) or
   near other sources of heat to prevent excessive pressures in the cylinders. Many cylinders
   have fusible safety plugs that will release the contents when high temperatures or pressures
   exist in the cylinder.
 842                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       40.3.2.1. Do not store cylinders where there is danger of accidental damage or in areas
       where they will be subject to corrosive chemicals. Do not store flammable gases near
       electrical wires, batteries or other conductors or sources of electricity.
       40.3.2.2. Empty cylinders must be plainly marked ―EMPTY‖ and stored in a separate
       area, segregated, if possible, from full cylinders. When stored together, full and empty
       cylinders shall be stored so that the older cylinders (old stock) can be removed first with
       minimum handling of other cylinders (newer stock). Refer to TO 42B5-1-2, Gas
       Cylinders (Storage Type) Use, Handling, and Maintenance, for additional guidance and
       information.
       40.3.2.3. The preferred method of securing compressed gas cylinders is by enclosure
       within a length of chain firmly anchored at both ends to a solid fixture (wall, stanchion,
       etc.). An alternative method of securing is with a canvas tank strap securely clamped to
       an immovable table or bench top. In either case, the anchor points of the chain or strap
       shall be about 2/3 the way up the tank. Metallic or synthetic, i.e., nylon, straps shall not
       be used to secure cylinders of flammable gases or oxygen.
       40.3.2.4. Cylinders stored in the open shall be adequately protected from extreme heat
       and cold. Cold weather usually increases the brittleness of the cylinder metal, and if
       brittle cylinders are handled roughly, they can rupture. Remove accumulated ice or snow
       to prevent cylinders from rusting.
       40.3.2.5. When gas cylinders are stored indoors, ventilate the area to prevent
       accumulation of flammable or asphyxiating gases in the atmosphere. Cylinders shall not
       be kept in unventilated enclosures.
   40.3.3. Cryogenic cylinders shall be fitted with stainless steel or other suitable plumbing
   only.
   40.3.4. Stored cylinders (either inside or outside) shall not obstruct exit routes or other traffic
   areas.
   40.3.5. All stored cylinders shall have their valves closed. Valve protection caps shall always
   be in place and hand tight except when cylinders are in use or connected for use. All
   cylinders shall be stored valve end up.
   40.3.6. Oxygen cylinders shall not be stored within 20 feet of combustible material
   (especially oil and grease), reserve stocks of acetylene, other fuel gas cylinders or near any
   other substance likely to cause or accelerate fire. The only exception is when oxygen and
   acetylene cylinders are secured on a welding cart with regulator and hoses attached. If the
   cart is not used several times a week, the regulators shall be removed and the cylinders
   properly stored.
   40.3.7. Storage facilities shall be prominently labeled/posted with the types of gases being
   stored. Where gases of different types are stored at the same location, cylinders shall be
   grouped by type of gas and the groups arranged to take into account the gases contained.
   Cylinders shall be prominently labeled IAW DOT regulations. Refer to Figure 40.4 for
   examples of appropriate signage to be used in storage areas.
40.4. Disposal and Shipping.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         843



   40.4.1. Disposal of Compressed Gas Cylinders. Disposal of compressed gas cylinders shall
   be accomplished IAW AFMAN23-227(I) and DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel
   Disposition Manual. Refer to TO 42B5-1-2, Use, Handling, and Maintenance Instruction –
   Storage Type Gas Cylinders, Section 10.4, Disposition of Cylinders, for additional guidance.
       40.4.1.1. Non-government owned cylinders shall be returned to the owner. If the owner
       cannot be determined, cylinders shall be processed IAW DoD 4160.21-M.
       40.4.1.2. Cylinders rejected for failure to pass hydrostatic testing or any other reason
       shall be disposed of as condemned property IAW AFMAN 23-110 after the identification
       numbers, symbols and cylinder contents have been destroyed.
       40.4.1.3. Acetylene cylinders are filled with a porous mass and a solvent that keeps the
       acetylene in solution. An unserviceable cylinder may retain varying quantities of solvent
       and gas. Prior to attempting to destroy one of these cylinders, it is important every
       precaution be taken to de-energize the cylinder.
   40.4.2. Prior to shipment, empty cylinders shall be inspected for dents, bulges, oxidation pits
   or other damage. Faulty cylinders shall be handled as required by the latest DOT regulations
   and AFMAN 23-227(I). Cylinders shall be shipped IAW the instructions in AFMAN 23-110
   and AFMAN 24-204.
       40.4.2.1. Ensure cylinders (especially oxygen) will not be contaminated with oil, grease,
       paint, etc., by the shipper while en route to or from the filling agency.
       40.4.2.2. All acetylene cylinders, when classified empty, shall be required to have 5 – 38
       psig gage pressure. This requirement prevents ambient air from contaminating the
       cylinder and allows the cylinder to be shipped at an empty cylinder rate.

Table 40.1. DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders (Data from
MIL-STD-101B, Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders, 3 December 1970).
 DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders (Data from MIL-STD-
    101B, Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders, 3 December 1970)
The following color-code is mandatory for all Department of Defense owned compressed gas
cylinders.
                 Title                    Top ―A‖        Band ―B‖      Band ―C‖        Body
Acetylene                                  Yellow         Yellow        Yellow        Yellow
Acrolein                                   Yellow         Brown          Black        Brown
Aerosol Insecticide                         Buff           Buff          Buff          Buff
Air, compressed, breathing                 Black          Green          Black        Black
Air, dry, special purpose                  Black          Green          Black        Black
Air, oil-free                              Black          Green          Black        Black
Air, oil-tolerant                          Black          Green         Green         Black
Alkyl Decaborane                           Yellow         Brown         Brown         Yellow
Alkyl Pentaborane                          Yellow         Brown         Brown         Yellow
Ammonia                                    Brown          Yellow        Orange        Orange
Argon, oil-free                             Gray          White          Gray          Gray
Argon, oil-tolerant                         Gray          White         White          Gray
Argon-Oxygen Mixture                        Gray          Green         White          Gray
 844                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


 DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders (Data from MIL-STD-
    101B, Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders, 3 December 1970)
The following color-code is mandatory for all Department of Defense owned compressed gas
cylinders.
                   Title                Top ―A‖       Band ―B‖     Band ―C‖      Body
Boron Trichloride                         Gray         Brown         Gray       Brown
Boron Trifluoride                         Gray         Brown        Brown       Brown
Bromoacetone                             Brown          Black        Black      Brown
Bromochloromethane                        Buff          Gray         Buff        Buff
Bromochloromethane (Fire)                 Red           Gray          Red        Red
Bromotrifluoromethane                    Orange        White         Gray       Orange
Bromotrifluoromethane (Fire)              Red          White         Gray        Red
Butadiene                                Yellow        White         Buff        Buff
Carbon Dioxide                            Gray          Gray         Gray        Gary
Carbon Dioxide (Fire)                     Red            Red          Red        Red
Carbon Monoxide                          Yellow        Brown        Brown       Brown
Chloroacetone                            Black         Brown         Black      Brown
Chlorine                                 Brown         Brown        Brown       Brown
Chlorine Trifluoride                     Brown         Green        Brown       Brown
Chloropicrin                             Brown         Orange       Orange      Brown
Cyanogen                                 Yellow        Brown        Yellow      Brown
Cyclopropane, medical                    Orange        Yellow        Blue        Blue
Diborane                                 Yellow        Brown        Brown       Yellow
Dibromodifluoromethane                    Buff         White         Buff        Buff
Dibromodifluoromethane (Fire)             Red          White          Red        Red
Difluorochloroethane                      Gray         Yellow       Yellow      Orange
Difluoroethane                            Gray         Yellow       Orange      Orange
Dihydrotetraborane                       Yellow        Brown        Brown       Yellow
Dimethylamine, anhydrous                 Yellow         Blue        White        Buff
Dimethylether                            Yellow        Brown         Buff        Buff
Dispersant, Dichlorodifluoromethane
                                          Buff          Gray         Gray        Buff
/Difluorethane Mixture (Halocarbon)
Ethane                                  Yellow          Blue        Yellow      Yellow
Ethyl Chloride                           Buff           Blue        Yellow       Buff
Ethyl Nitrite                           Yellow          Buff         Buff        Buff
Ethylamine, anhydrous                   Yellow          Blue         Blue        Buff
Ethylene, Industrial                     Blue          Yellow        Buff        Buff
Ethylene, Medical                       Yellow          Blue         Blue        Blue
Ethylene Oxide                          Yellow          Blue         Buff        Buff
Fluorine                                Brown          Green        Green       Brown
Fumigant, Carbon Dioxide/
                                          Buff          Blue         Buff        Buff
Ethylene Oxide Mix
Fumigant, Ethylene Oxide/
                                          Buff          Buff         Buff        Buff
Dichlorodifluoromethane Mix
Helium, oil-free / medical               Buff           Gray         Gray        Gray
Helium, oil-tolerant                     Gray          Orange        Gray        Gray
Helium-Oxygen mixture                    Buff          White        Green       Green
Hydrogen                                Yellow         Black        Yellow      Yellow
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     845



 DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders (Data from MIL-STD-
    101B, Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders, 3 December 1970)
The following color-code is mandatory for all Department of Defense owned compressed gas
cylinders.
                   Title                  Top ―A‖     Band ―B‖     Band ―C‖      Body
Hydrogen Bromide                           Black       Brown        Brown       Brown
Hydrogen Chloride, anhydrous               Brown       White        Brown       Brown
Hydrogen Cyanide, anhydrous                Yellow      Brown        White       Brown
Hydrogen Fluoride, anhydrous               Green       Brown        Brown       Brown
Hydrogen Sulfide                           Brown       Yellow       Brown       Brown
Krypton, oil-free                           Gray        Buff         Gray        Gray
Krypton, oil-tolerant                       Gray        Buff         Buff        Gray
Methane                                    Yellow      White        Yellow      Yellow
Methyl Acetylene
                                          Yellow       Orange       Yellow      Yellow
Propadiene (MAPP)
Methylamine                               Yellow       Brown        Yellow       Buff
Methyl Bromide                            Brown        Black        Brown       Brown
Methyl Bromide (Fire)                      Red         Brown         Red         Red
Methyl Chloride                           Yellow       Brown        Orange      Orange
Methyl Mercaptan                          Brown        Yellow       Yellow      Brown
Methyl Sulfide                            Yellow       Brown         Buff       Brown
Methylene Chloride                         Gray         Blue        Orange      Orange
Natural Gas                               Yellow       Brown        Yellow      Yellow
Neon, oil-free                            White         Buff         Buff        Gray
Neon, oil-tolerant                        White         Buff         Gray        Gray
Nickel Carbonyl                           Yellow       White        Yellow      Brown
Nitric Oxide                              Brown         Buff        Brown       Brown
Nitrogen, Oil-Free                         Gray        Black        Black        Gray
Nitrogen, Oil-Tolerant                     Gray        Black         Gray        Gray
Nitrogen Dioxide                          Brown         Buff         Buff       Brown
Nitrogen-Helium Mixture                    Gray        Black        Orange       Gray
Nitrogen-Oxygen Mixture                   Black        White        Green       Green
Nitrosyl Chloride                         Brown        White        White       Brown
Nitrous Oxide                              Blue         Blue         Blue        Blue
Oxygen                                    Green        Green        Green       Green
Oxygen, Aviator's                         Green        White        Green       Green
Oxygen, Electrolytic                      Green        White        White       Green
Oxygen, Medical                           White        Green        Green       Green
Oxygen - Carbon Dioxide Mix                Gray        White        Green       Green
Oxygen Fluoride                           Green        Brown        Green       Brown
Ozone                                     Brown        Green        Green       Green
Pentaborane, Stable                       Yellow       Brown        Brown       Yellow
Petroleum gas: Acetogen, Butane,
butane-propane, Isobutane, Isobutylene,   Yellow       Orange       Yellow      Yellow
Neopentane, Propane
Phenylcarblamine Chloride                 Brown         Gray          Gray      Brown
Phosgene                                  Brown        Orange        Brown      Brown
 846                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


 DoD Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders (Data from MIL-STD-
    101B, Color Code for Pipelines and Compressed Gas Cylinders, 3 December 1970)
The following color-code is mandatory for all Department of Defense owned compressed gas
cylinders.
                  Title                  Top ―A‖       Band ―B‖      Band ―C‖       Body
Propylene                                 Yellow         Gray          Buff         Buff
R-11, Trichlorofluoromethane              Orange        Orange        Orange       Orange
R-12, Dichlorodifluoromethane             Orange        Orange        Orange       Orange
R-13, Chlorotrifluoromethane              Orange        Orange        Orange       Orange
R-22, Chlorodifluoromethane               Orange        Orange        Orange       Orange
R-113, Trichlorotrifluoromethane          Orange        Orange        Orange       Orange
R-114, Dichlorotetrafluoroethane          Orange        Orange        Orange       Orange
R-500, Dichlorodifluoromethane
                                          Orange         Orange       Orange       Orange
/Difluorethane Mixture (Halocarbon)
R-502, Monochlorodifluoromethane          Orange         Orange       Orange       Orange
R-134a, Tetrafluoroethane                 Orange         Orange       Orange       Orange
Sulfur Dioxide                            Brown           Gray        Brown        Brown
Sulfur Hexafluoride                        Gray          White        Black         Gray
Tetrafluoroethylene, inhibited             Buff          White        White         Buff
Trimethylamine                            Yellow          Blue        Orange        Buff
Vinyl Bromide                              Buff           Blue         Blue         Buff
Vinyl Chloride                            Yellow         Orange        Buff         Buff
Vinyl Methyl Ether                        Yellow         Black         Buff         Buff
Xenon, oil-free                           White          Black         Gray         Gray
Xenon, oil-tolerant                       White          Black        Black         Gray

Figure 40.1. Examples of Typical Cylinder Parts and Markings.




The cylinder cap (1) protects the cylinder valve. The valve handwheel (2) is used to open and
close the cylinder valve. Valves not equipped with handwheels may require special wrenches to
operate. The valve packing nut (3) contains a packing gland and packing around the stem.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         847



Packing shall not be tampered with. A pressure relief device (4) permits gas to escape if unsafe
pressures occur. The valve outlet connection (5) connects to pressure and/or flow-regulating
equipment. Various types of connections are provided to prevent interchange of equipment for
incompatible gases, usually identified by CGA (Compressed Gas Association) number; for
example, CGA No.350 is used for hydrogen service. A cylinder collar (6) holds the cylinder cap
at all times, except when regulating equipment is attached to the cylinder valve. The valve outlet
cap (7) protects valve threads from damage and keeps the outlet clean; it is not used universally.
Specification number (8) signifies the cylinder conforms to DOT specification DOT-3AA,
governing materials of construction, capacities and test procedures, and that the design service
pressure for the cylinder is 2265 psig at 70°F. The cylinder serial number is indicated by (9), and
(10) indicates the date (month and year: in this case, April 1997) of initial hydrostatic testing.
Thereafter, hydrostatic pressure tests are performed on cylinders, for most gases, every five (5)
years to determine their fitness for further use. At this time, new test dates are stamped into the
shoulder of the cylinder. Present regulations permit a visual test in lieu of hydrostatic tests for
low-pressure cylinders for certain gases free of corrosive agents; regulations also allow
hydrostatic pressure tests at 10-year intervals for cylinders in high-pressure service for certain
gases. The original inspector‘s insignia for conducting hydrostatic and other required tests to
approve the cylinder under DOT specifications is shown by (11).

Figure 40.2. Examples of Typical Cylinder Hand Trucks.
 848                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 40.3. Examples of Properly and Improperly Securing Compressed Gas Cylinders.




Figure 40.4. Examples of Signage to be Used In/On Cylinder Storage Areas, Workplace
Areas and for Transport.
 Examples of Signage to be Used In/On Cylinder Storage Areas, Workplace Areas and
                                   for Transport
Gas Type           Characteristics                      DOT / DOD Hazard Class Signs
Non-Flammable      Gases that will not fuel a fire or
                   ignite




Flammable          Gases that can fuel a fire or can
                   ignite when exposed to a spark
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       849



Corrosive            Gases that will corrode
                     unprotected metal or surfaces




Toxic                Gases that are toxic/poisonous




Not Applicable       Combine NFPA® ratings and
                     warning information to alert
                     emergency responders and
                     employees of the hazards
                     associated with a specific
                     material


40.5. Compressed Gases Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists
in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   40.5.1. Are only trained workers permitted to handle or use compressed gas cylinders?
   Reference 40.1.2.1
   40.5.2. Are cylinders inspected for damage (i.e., dents, gouges, evidence of leakage or
   cracks) when received and before use? Reference 40.2.1
   40.5.3. Have compressed gas cylinders been hydrostatically tested within the last five (5)
   years? Reference 40.2.1
   40.5.4. Are compressed gas cylinders properly handled and secured? Reference 40.2.6
   40.5.5. When cylinders are not in use, are they capped and secured to solid fixtures to
   prevent cylinders from falling over? Reference 40.3.1
   40.5.6. When cylinders are attached to a manifold, are they also secured to a solid fixture to
   prevent cylinders from falling over? Reference 40.3.1.3
   40.5.7. Are cylinder enclosures posted as No Smoking Areas? Reference 40.3.1.4
   40.5.8. Are cylinders stored in locations where their temperatures will not rise above 125°
   F? Reference 40.3.2
   40.5.9. Are cylinders stored in areas where there is no danger of accidental damage?
   Reference 40.3.2.1
850                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  40.5.10. Have empty cylinders been plainly marked EMPTY and stored separately from full
  cylinders? Reference 40.3.2.2.
  40.5.11. When cylinders are stored indoors, are these areas ventilated to prevent
  accumulation of flammable or asphyxiating gases? Reference 40.3.2.5
  40.5.12. Are cryogenic cylinders fitted with only stainless steel or other suitable plumbing?
  Reference 40.3.3
  40.5.13. Do stored cylinders (either indoors or outdoors) obstruct exit routes or other traffic
  areas? Reference 40.3.4
  40.5.14. Are oxygen cylinders stored at least 20 feet from combustible materials (i.e., oil,
  grease), or near any other substance likely to cause or accelerate fire? Reference 40.3.6
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        851



                                          Chapter 41

                                          LODGING

41.1. General Requirements.
   41.1.1. Training. Lodging facilities vary from base to base. Consequently, the best approach
   to preventing mishaps is a good local training program, coupled with appropriately marked
   hazards and warnings. Job safety training is required by AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
   Mishap Prevention Program. Supervisors and workers who handle, use or are potentially
   exposed to hazardous materials shall be provided information and training on the Air Force
   Hazard Communication Program (AFHCP) and specific hazards in their work area. This
   training shall be conducted upon initial work area assignment and whenever a new hazard is
   introduced into their work area. If workers have already been trained on the hazards of a new
   material, process, operation or condition, retraining is not required. Note: Applicable
   collective bargaining agreements may also address safety and health training. Refer to AFI
   90-821, Hazard Communication, and 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communications, for
   additional guidance and information.
   41.1.2. All lodging workers shall receive a thorough indoctrination and orientation on their
   facilities and work environments. This orientation shall include, as a minimum:
      41.1.2.1. Design and layout of the facilities.
      41.1.2.2. Ground irregularities adjacent to the facility and walkway or passageway
      hazards.
      41.1.2.3. Facility entrances, fire exits, fire prevention and the location of installed fire
      protection equipment and fire extinguishers, fire alarms and fire reporting procedures.
      41.1.2.4. Proper procedures for use, handling and storage of cleaning materials.
      41.1.2.5. Stairwell hazards and proper methods of ascending or descending stairs with
      loads.
      41.1.2.6. Hazards of the job tasks they will do.
      41.1.2.7. Hazards of the work areas to include physical and chemical hazards.
      41.1.2.8. OSHA and/or AFOSH requirements that apply to their job and workplace.
      41.1.2.9. Use and maintenance of required personal protective clothing and equipment.
      41.1.2.10. Emergency procedures, including building evacuation procedures.
      41.1.2.11. How to identify and report hazards.
      41.1.2.12. How to report work-related injuries and illnesses.
      41.1.2.13. Worker rights and responsibilities under the AFOSH Program.
      41.1.2.14. Proper lifting procedures.
      41.1.2.15. Fire Prevention. Most lodging fires are caused by careless use of smoking
      materials, ignition of combustible materials left in storage areas, ignition of accumulated
 852                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       grease in kitchens, overheating of appliances left in the ―on‖ position while unattended or
       use of unauthorized cooking and heating appliances.
41.2. Lodging Facilities.
   41.2.1. General lodging operations present a variety of hazards requiring care and attention
   of both worker and supervisor to prevent injuries and loss of property. Multi-floor units
   present hazards inherent in climbing stairs. Other hazards include cleaning equipment left in
   hallways when adequate storage does not exist, slick floors when cleaning with water and
   wax mixtures, uneven stairs and sidewalks and natural landscape hazards. Older facilities
   have high walls and ceilings which may require stretching or the use of ladders. Facilities are
   usually geographically dispersed from the central office location, which may create problems
   with snow or ice removal from sidewalks and entrances.
   41.2.2. Lodging facilities shall comply with DoD standards, UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection
   Engineering for Facilities, Air Force directives and NFPA 101, The Life Safety Code. The
   installation CE shall ensure applicable directives are included when contracting for
   construction of new lodging facilities or renovation of existing facilities.
       41.2.2.1. Fire extinguishers shall be installed in lodging facilities. The number, type and
       location of extinguishers depend upon the size and layout of the facility, the number of
       floors and whether the facility is equipped with sprinklers. Refer to Chapter 6, Fire
       Protection and Prevention, for information on installation, inspection, maintenance and
       hydrostatic testing of portable fire extinguishers.
       41.2.2.2. Fire extinguishers shall meet 29 CFR 1910.157, Portable Fire Extinguishers,
       requirements. Extinguishers shall be inspected by management or a designated worker at
       least monthly to ensure they:
          41.2.2.2.1. Are not obstructed or obscured from view.
          41.2.2.2.2. Are fully charged and in their designated places along normal paths of
          travel.
          41.2.2.2.3. Have not been tampered with or actuated.
          41.2.2.2.4. Do not have corrosion or other impairments.
          41.2.2.2.5. Are recharged or repaired as needed to ensure operability and safety.
          41.2.2.2.6. Are placed so maximum travel distances, unless there are extremely
          hazardous conditions, do not exceed 75 feet for Class A fires or 50 feet for Class B
          fires.
       41.2.2.3. All kitchens shall have a dry chemical fire extinguisher or equivalent installed
       to combat grease or electrical fires.
       41.2.2.4. All workers shall be trained in the use of these extinguishers.
       41.2.2.5. The building custodian shall ensure correct phone numbers for the installation
       Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight, security forces and medical facility are updated
       monthly and posted on telephones.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      853



  41.2.3. Flammable and combustible liquids, when not in use, shall be stored in an approved
  flammable storage locker. Refer to Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, for
  additional guidance.
  41.2.4. Exits and Exit Markings. Refer to paragraph6.3, 29 CFR 1910, Subpart E, Means of
  Egress, and NFPA 101 for additional guidance and information.
  41.2.5. Walking and Working Surfaces, Aisles and Passageways. Refer to Chapter 7,
  Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable
  and Fixed Ladders, 29 CFR 1910, Subpart D, Walking—Working Surfaces, and NFPA 101,
  for additional requirements and guidance.
     41.2.5.1. Every open-sided floor or platform four (4) feet or more above adjacent floor or
     ground level shall be guarded by a standard railing on all open sides, except where there
     is an entrance to a ramp, stairway or fixed ladder. The railing shall be provided with a
     toeboard if personnel walk or work beneath the open sides.
     41.2.5.2. Every stairway floor opening shall be guarded on all exposed sides, except the
     entrance to the stairway.
     41.2.5.3. Every ladderway floor opening shall be guarded by a standard railing and
     toeboard on all sides, with a gateway opening constructed so personnel are prevented
     from walking directly into the opening, i.e., a floor gate that when opened/lifted, is
     visible by all.
     41.2.5.4. Every runway or ramp shall have railings on all open sides four (4) feet or more
     above ground or floor level.
     41.2.5.5. All passageways and storage areas shall be maintained clean, dry, orderly and
     in sanitary condition with spills promptly cleaned up and signs posted stating, ―Caution
     Wet Floors,‖ whenever the floor surface is wet or being cleaned.
     41.2.5.6. Every floor, work area, aisle and passageway shall be maintained free from
     protruding nails, splinters, holes, loose boards and in a dry condition.
     41.2.5.7. Non-slip surfaces and handrails shall be provided for ramps with excessive
     slope. Refer to Table 7.2 for a consideration of excessive slope.
     41.2.5.8. Aisles shall be at least 44 inches wide to permit free movement of workers,
     equipment and supplies.
     41.2.5.9. The following requirements apply to flights of stairs with four or more risers:
         41.2.5.9.1. A stair railing is required on each open side.
         41.2.5.9.2. If the stairway is less than 44 inches wide and both sides are enclosed, at
         least one handrail is required, preferably on the right side descending.
         41.2.5.9.3. If the stairway is greater than 44 inches wide, a handrail is required on
         each enclosed side and a handrail on each open side.
         41.2.5.9.4. If the stairway is greater than 88 inches wide, an intermediate handrail
         located midway is required.
854                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      41.2.5.10. Riser height and tread width shall be uniform throughout any flight of stairs
      (plus or minus 1/8-inch tolerance).
      41.2.5.11. All treads shall be reasonably slip-resistant and free of projections or lips that
      could cause a tripping hazard.
      41.2.5.12. Vertical clearance above any stair tread to any overhead obstruction shall be at
      least seven (7) feet, measured from the leading edge of the tread.
      41.2.5.13. Sidewalk ramps shall be installed where heavy equipment is used and
      mechanical lifting and moving equipment is impractical.
  41.2.6. Electrical Installation and Equipment. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, NFPA
  70, National Electrical Code, and NFPA 70E, Electrical Safety Requirements for Employee
  Workplaces, for additional guidance on electrical installation and equipment.
      41.2.6.1. Circuit breakers and fuse boxes shall be legibly marked to indicate their
      purpose.
      41.2.6.2. Frames of electrical motors, regardless of voltage, shall be grounded IAW
      NFPA 70.
      41.2.6.3. Wherever wires are joined they shall be covered, such as at outlets, switches,
      junction boxes, etc. Flexible cords shall not be used as a substitute for fixed wiring, run
      through holes in walls, ceilings or floors or attached to building surfaces.
      41.2.6.4. Equipment connected by flexible cords shall be grounded either by a 3-wire
      cord or by a separate ground wire. Metal-clad plugs are prohibited unless specifically
      authorized by the NEC. This paragraph does not apply to double insulated equipment or
      equipment such as clocks, radios, can openers, etc., which are not normally manufactured
      with a grounding plug.
      41.2.6.5. Splices, joints and the free ends of conductors shall be properly insulated and
      installed by a qualified electrician. Refer to NFPA 70, Article 400-9, for additional
      guidance. Power cords frequently placed under tensile stress, e.g., vacuum cleaner cords,
      shall not be spliced or taped. Cords shall be fastened so there is no pull on joints or
      screws and shall be replaced when frayed or when insulation has deteriorated.
      41.2.6.6. Portable or fixed electrical tools shall function without developing surface
      temperatures high enough to ignite any flammable and combustible vapors which may be
      present in the work area.
      41.2.6.7. All electrical receptacles (125 volt, single phase, 15- and 20-ampere) installed
      in bathrooms or any outlet installed to service a countertop surface shall have Ground-
      Fault Circuit-Interrupter (GFCI) protection.
  41.2.7. Machinery, Shop Equipment, Machine Guarding and Power Transmission. Refer to
  Chapter 18, Machinery, for additional information on machines.
      41.2.7.1. Minor maintenance shops. Buffers, vacuum cleaners and other electrical
      equipment used in wet areas shall be specifically approved for such use and cords, plugs
      and grounds inspected before use. Although lodging machinery and appliances, such as
      buffers and vacuum cleaners, are generally portable and require minimal instructions, all
      machinery, appliances and other shop equipment shall be maintained and operated only
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        855



       by qualified workers. A sign stating, ―Unauthorized Use of Equipment Not Permitted,‖
       shall be posted where personnel can see it.
       41.2.7.2. All machines and equipment shall be guarded to protect residents, the operator
       and other workers from hazards created by the point of operation, rotating parts, flying
       parts or chips, sparks and power transmission apparatus.
       41.2.7.3. The type of operation, size or shape of stock, method of handling stock,
       physical layout, and type of material and production requirements or limitations shall
       determine the types of guarding required.
       41.2.7.4. Machine guards shall prevent any part of the operator‘s body from entering a
       danger zone during the operating cycle of the machine. Guards shall be securely attached
       to the machine and not installed in a way that creates a hazard. Machines designed for
       fixed locations shall be securely anchored to prevent ―walking‖ or tipping.
       41.2.7.5. Refer to Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, for machine under-voltage protection
       requirements.
       41.2.7.6. Where mechanical handling equipment such as lift trucks are used, sufficient
       safe clearance shall be provided for aisles at loading docks, through doorways and
       passageways. Aisles shall be marked at least two (2) feet wider than the widest vehicle
       used and obstructions that could create hazards shall not be permitted in aisles.
41.3. Specific Applications.
   41.3.1. First aid supplies shall be readily available in housekeeping rooms or offices. They
   shall be in sanitary containers with individually sealed packages for material such as gauze,
   bandages and dressings. Other items may include adhesive tape, scissors and mild soap for
   cleaning wounds or abrasions.
   41.3.2. Lifting and Carrying. Many lodging mishaps involve failure to lift or carry objects
   properly. Physical capabilities of individuals are different and knowing one‘s limitations and
   practicing proper lifting and carrying techniques will reduce the possibility of injury.
   Maintaining good physical health and keeping one‘s self in good physical condition can
   reduce the likelihood of injury. Some items are too heavy, bulky or awkward to be carried by
   hand. Many tasks could be made safer by applying basic ergonomic principles. Mechanical
   lifting and/or carrying devices shall be used whenever possible. Refer to Chapter 4, Manual
   Material Handling and Lifting Techniques, for additional guidance on manual material
   handling.
       41.3.2.1. Supervisors shall ensure personnel receive thorough instruction on proper
       lifting and carrying techniques and the use of mechanical lifting devices, if available.
       Contact the installation Ground Safety office or hospital physical therapy unit for
       additional information on preventing back injuries.
       41.3.2.2. Workers shall follow proper lifting procedures:
          41.3.2.2.1. Position feet correctly. Place feet far enough apart for balance with one
          foot to the rear of the object and the other foot slightly ahead of the other and to the
          side of the object.
856                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         41.3.2.2.2. Crouch close to the load. Bend with buttocks resting on the heels of
         shoes. Stay close to the load to minimize strain on the muscles. Lift with legs and
         body and keep the back straight.
         41.3.2.2.3. Pick up materials with a full palm grip. Do not attempt to pick up
         materials with only a fingertip grip. Ensure the load is free of grease, which could
         allow the load to slip, or sharp points, which could cause injury. Use suitable gloves
         when necessary.
         41.3.2.2.4. Always keep the back as straight as possible. It may not be possible to
         keep the back in the vertical plane, but avoid arching the back. Bend from the hips
         and not from the middle of the back.
         41.3.2.2.5. With the arms, slide the object toward the body to give it some motion
         (kinetic energy). Simultaneously, use the legs to lift the object and bring the back to a
         vertical position.
  41.3.3. Housekeeping and Material Storage.
      41.3.3.1. Falling Objects. Items improperly stacked or stored can fall. Falling debris and
      flaking paint can get into eyes when janitorial personnel clean items above eye level.
      Improperly positioned or lifted furniture items can also fall.
      41.3.3.2. Visually scan each work area for loose objects lying in piles or in pathways.
      41.3.3.3. Place soiled linens on shelves or in bags or containers on the housekeeper‘s
      cart. Do not throw these items on the floor.
      41.3.3.4. Place carts, vacuums, pails and other housekeeping equipment in an area where
      customers and employees will not trip or fall over them.
      41.3.3.5. Always ensure lamp shades are on lamps. Because light bulbs may be hot,
      avoid bulb contact with combustible materials. Turn off all appliances and allow them to
      stop moving and/or cool down before cleaning.
      41.3.3.6. Ensure there is no smoking, smoking waste or exposed flames in storage areas.
      41.3.3.7. Ensure all hazardous chemical containers are properly labeled to ensure their
      appropriate use.
  41.3.4. Cleaning Rooms, Suites and Other Common Use Areas.
      41.3.4.1. Furnishings are generally heavy, bulky and require frequent rearrangements or
      movement for cleaning. Improper lifting, moving and carrying may cause back strains,
      abrasions and cuts. When lifting or turning mattresses and beds or moving bulky
      refrigerators, get sufficient assistance so one individual isn‘t overstressed. Heavy
      furniture that must be moved frequently for cleaning shall have rollers or casters
      installed.
      41.3.4.2. Trash receptacles may contain sharp objects, cans or broken glass. Vacuum
      cleaning bags may also contain sharp objects. If possible, place broken glass or jagged
      items in a container, other than a plastic bag, or enclose broken pieces in a cardboard or
      protective shield before placing in a bag. This will reduce the possibility of cuts from
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      857



     glass protruding from bags. Wear appropriate gloves when picking up glass, jagged metal
     or potentially injurious trash.
     41.3.4.3. Place smoking materials in approved containers rather than mixing with
     combustible trash. Containers shall be emptied at the end of each duty shift.
     41.3.4.4. Check work areas for loose objects lying in pathways.
     41.3.4.5. Check for out-of-position furniture or obstacles before entering the room.
     41.3.4.6. Do not climb on chairs or other furniture. Use approved ladders and stepstools.
     41.3.4.7. Do not allow people to walk or work under overhead fixtures while being
     cleaned. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for suitable eye
     protection from dust and dirt.
     41.3.4.8. Cleaning agents can cause skin and eye irritation and respiratory problems if
     improperly used. All workers shall be informed of the hazards of chemicals used and
     know the location of MSDS information. Example: Ammonia solution is frequently used
     as a cleaning agent. Ammonia gas is released from the solution and prolonged exposure
     to vapors, especially in confined spaces, can be harmful.
  41.3.5. Cleaning Bathrooms and Latrines.
     41.3.5.1. Ensure the room or area being cleaned is well ventilated. Turn on bathroom
     ventilating fans, and open doors and windows, as needed.
     41.3.5.2. Ensure infrared heat lamps are turned off when working in bathrooms.
     41.3.5.3. Ultraviolet (UV) and heat lamps and other appliances shall be turned off and
     allowed to stop moving and/or cool prior to cleaning.
     41.3.5.4. Caustic solutions are often used for cleaning bathroom, latrine, shower and
     kitchen facilities. Some chemicals, such as drain cleaners, can burn skin or damage eyes.
     Soaps and detergents may cause dermatitis (skin rash) and throat and respiratory irritation
     if inhaled.
  41.3.6. Cleaning Kitchens.
     41.3.6.1. Turn off all appliances and allow them to stop moving and/or cool down before
     cleaning.
     41.3.6.2. Clean grease from burners and ranges to prevent grease fires. Wear eye
     protection (safety goggles) to prevent foreign material from entering the eyes.
     41.3.6.3. Unplug heat producing appliances such as irons and coffee makers when not in
     use. Exception: Commercial coffee urns hard plumbed to the water service and coffee
     makers/machines with integral timers, i.e., Bunn-type coffee brewers, need not be
     unplugged at the end of the work day if they are in an occupied/observable space.
     41.3.6.4. Clean microwave ovens daily. Disconnect the power source if microwave doors
     do not latch or are broken so personnel will not be exposed to microwave energy. Place
     an AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag, on it and remove the equipment from service until
858                                                                     AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      repaired. Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), for
      additional information.
      41.3.6.5. Use gloves to handle or touch burners, chassis and appliance elements that may
      produce burns or cuts. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
  41.3.7. Laundry Rooms and Facilities.
      41.3.7.1. Check for gas leaks and immediately ventilate the room if gas is detected. Do
      not turn on any heat producing or electrical equipment. Evacuate the facility, block the
      room to preclude entry and call emergency repair service. Also, notify the installation
      FES Flight.
      41.3.7.2. Tag defective equipment and remove from service until repaired.
      41.3.7.3. If water exists on the floor near electrically powered machinery or equipment,
      ensure power is disabled at the power source prior to touching electrical plugs or
      connections.
      41.3.7.4. Ensure dryers are vented to the outside and dryer exhaust pipes are cleaned as
      needed to prevent buildup of flammable lint.
      41.3.7.5. Make sure area is clean and free of spills or debris.
  41.3.8. Warehousing. Some housing supply operations require forklift trucks. Refer to
  Chapter 35, Materials Handling Equipment, 29 CFR 1910.178, Powered Industrial Trucks,
  and DoD 4145.19-R-1, Storage and Materials Handling, for warehousing information.
      41.3.8.1. Receiving and Loading Docks. Loading docks can be hazardous. Movement of
      vehicles and materials in a relatively small area requires care and attention. Uneven
      matchups between vehicles and docks can pose tripping hazards. Trucks or trailers shall
      have brakes set, wheels blocked and gear shift placed in park to prevent movement while
      loading or unloading.
         41.3.8.1.1. Loading dock injuries can occur when an individual steps off an open
         dock or the dock is not the same height as the back of the vehicle. This factor causes
         workers to jump down (or up) and can cause back or knee sprain or other injuries.
         41.3.8.1.2. Safeguard pedestrians at all times. Do not drive a truck up to anyone
         standing in front of a fixed object. Use a spotter when necessary, i.e., when driving in
         extremely tight areas or when the operator‘s vision is obstructed while backing.
      41.3.8.2. Use mechanized equipment when appropriate. Refer to Chapter 35 for
      additional guidance and information on warehouse equipment.
      41.3.8.3. Keep warehouse floors, platforms and ramps clean and in good condition.
      41.3.8.4. Ensure workers wear safety-toe shoes, gloves and other PPE as necessary while
      working in the warehouse or handling material. Watch for projecting nails, jagged hoops,
      metal bands, ends of wires and splinters when handling materials.
      41.3.8.5. Slow down and sound vehicle/lift truck horn at intersections when entering
      warehouses and in other situations where vision is obstructed. Stop at blind corners. Stop
      before going through doorways.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     859



     41.3.8.6. Avoid overhead objects such as sprinkler heads and electrical fixtures. Protect
     critical equipment, such as electrical panels, fire equipment and load-supporting columns,
     with barriers or posts.
     41.3.8.7. Never refuel vehicles inside a warehouse or while engine is running.
     41.3.8.8. Never walk backwards with a hand truck in a warehouse.
  41.3.9. Portable Equipment and Appliances. Lodging equipment includes hand-held electric
  powered cleaning and buffing equipment, as found in household or commercial
  establishments. Use only equipment that is double-insulated or has a three-prong grounding
  plug. Equipment shall be disconnected from its power source prior to removing filters, bags,
  belts, devices or moving parts. Power cords shall be carefully wound and the equipment
  returned to its storage area after use. Equipment with frayed or damaged power cords shall be
  removed from service and tagged until repaired.
  41.3.10. Trash Removal. Wear appropriate gloves when picking up glass, jagged metal or
  potentially injurious trash. Place jagged items in a protective wrapping or solid container.
  Items placed in a plastic trash bag can pierce the bag and cause injury.
  41.3.11. Furniture Repair Operations and Warehouses.
     41.3.11.1. Electrical mishaps can occur when appliance plugs are not properly grounded.
     Frayed cords and broken plugs shall be repaired by a certified electrician to prevent
     shocks, burns and fires.
     41.3.11.2. Equipment and appliances shall be turned off and power disconnected after
     use or when cleaning belts or doing minor maintenance work.
     41.3.11.3. Hand and power tools shall be maintained in safe, useable condition. Refer to
     Chapter 12, Hand Tool and Portable Power Tools, for guidance on use and care of hand
     and power tools.
     41.3.11.4. Transporting Furniture and Supplies. To avoid vehicle mishaps:
         41.3.11.4.1. Use spotters when backing and visibility is limited or impaired,
         especially in narrow or confining spaces.
         41.3.11.4.2. Load for maximum visibility.
         41.3.11.4.3. Drive defensively. The bulk of the vehicle can block the vision of
         pedestrians and vehicles.
         41.3.11.4.4. Ensure workers do not ride in the beds of trucks.
  41.3.12. Landscape Maintenance.
     41.3.12.1. Landscaping or ground maintenance equipment is designed to grind, mulch or
     cut. This equipment can throw debris (rocks, wire, nails) hidden in the grass and injure
     bystanders and/or the operator. Mower operators shall turn off the engine and disconnect
     the spark plug wire (unplug the electrical cord) before attempting to clean out lodged
     debris or grass clipping from the mower housing. To prevent burns or fires, personnel
     shall not refuel gasoline powered mowers with the engine running or while the manifold
     is still hot.
 860                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       41.3.12.2. Before mowing grass or edging with powered mowers or edgers, visually
       check areas for loose objects such as rocks, bricks or wire that can be thrown or ejected
       by mower or edger blades. Always wear protective footwear when operating walk-behind
       mowers and edgers. The protective footwear shall be safety-toed with slip-resistant soles,
       meeting ASTM F2413 requirements. Note: Protective footwear is required for all
       mowing and edging operations, including those involving mowers equipped with rear
       drag plates designed to protect the operator‘s feet or edgers with nylon filament line
       cutters.
       41.3.12.3. Never operate a power mower without either the entire grass catcher or the
       guard and/or deflector in place.
       41.3.12.4. Ice and Snow Removal. Snow and ice on sidewalks and entryways contribute
       to slips and falls. Wear protective footwear when walking or working on ice. Use sand,
       salt or other material to assist in reducing the hazard. Promptly remove snow and ice
       from all exterior stairs, ramps, exit discharges (doors used for emergency or normal exits)
       and walkways as soon as possible to prevent melting and refreezing of the walkway. In
       areas subject to heavy to severe snow/ice conditions, organizations may permit use of
       removable metallic shoe cleats to improve traction on ice/snow covered surfaces and
       prevent worker slips and falls. Organizations shall define the type(s) of footwear to be
       worn, the conditions and locations where such footwear may be worn. Footwear with
       metallic shoe cleats/spikes/studs shall not be worn inside lodging facilities. Refer to
       Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
   41.3.13. Insect and Vertebrate Pest Control. Construct, equip and maintain workplaces and
   personal service areas to prevent entrance of insects and vertebrate pests. Contact the
   installation CE Pest Management and refer to AFI 32-1053, Pest Management Program, for
   additional guidance and policies on pest control.
   41.3.14. Elevators. The lodging supervisor shall ensure elevators in lodging facilities comply
   with the requirements of ANSI A17.1, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators. Elevators
   shall be inspected by qualified inspectors IAW ANSI A17.2, Guide for Inspection of
   Elevators, Escalators and Moving-Walkways. Refer to 29 CFR 1926.552, Material Hoists,
   Personnel Hoists and Elevators, for additional guidance.
41.4. Lodging Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this
instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist
that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety
staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual location or
shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   41.4.1. Are fire extinguishers installed in and around lodging facilities? Reference 41.2.2.1
   41.4.2. Does the building custodian ensure correct phone numbers for the FES Flight,
   security forces and medical facility are posted on telephones on a monthly basis? Reference
   41.2.2.5
   41.4.3. Are all fire exits clearly marked and the path of exit kept clear of equipment and
   materials? Reference 41.2.4.1
   41.4.4. Are all employees trained in proper evacuation procedures? Reference 41.2.4.1
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                    861



  41.4.5. Are all circuit breakers and fuse boxes legibly marked to indicate their purpose?
  Reference 41.2.6.1
  41.4.6. Are machine guards installed so they do not create a hazardous situation? Reference
  41.2.7.4
  41.4.7. Are first aid supplies readily available in housekeeping rooms or offices? Reference
  41.3.1
  41.4.8. Do supervisors ensure personnel receive thorough instruction on proper lifting and
  carry techniques and the use of mechanical lifting devices? Reference 41.3.2.1
  41.4.9. Are soiled linens placed on shelves or in bags or containers on the housekeeper‘s
  cart? Reference 41.3.3.3
  41.4.10. Do workers unplug heat producing appliances such as irons and coffee makers
  when not in use? Reference 41.3.3.5
  41.4.11. Does heavy furniture that must be moved frequently have rollers or casters
  installed? Reference 41.3.4.1
  41.4.12. Is defective equipment tagged and removed from service until repaired? Reference
  41.3.7.2
  41.4.13. Is equipment disconnected from its power source prior to removing filters, bags,
  belts, devices or moving parts? Reference 41.3.9
  41.4.14. Does the supervisor ensure workers wear appropriate gloves when picking up glass,
  jagged metal or potentially injurious trash? Reference 41.3.10
  41.4.15. Before mowing grass or edging with powered mowers or edgers, does the operator
  visually check areas for loose objects such as rocks, bricks or wire that can be thrown or
  ejected by mower or edger blades? Reference 41.3.12.2
  41.4.16. Does the supervisor ensure snow and ice is removed from all exterior stairs, ramps,
  exit discharges and paths, sidewalks and other walkways? Reference 41.3.12.4
  41.4.17. Are enclosed workplaces and personal service rooms constructed, equipped and
  maintained to prevent the entrance of rodents, insects and vermin? Reference 41.3.13
 862                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 42

                                  NDI AND OIL ANALYSIS

42.1. General Information. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) shall be provided for
Nondestructive Inspection (NDI) personnel IAW Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment
(PPE), requirements. PPE shall be kept clean, and if not individually issued, shall be prominently
displayed and/or stored in the immediate vicinity where its use is required. Particular attention
shall be given to keeping the insides of gloves clean and dry. Where a requirement for respirators
has been established IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, they shall
be individually issued and have a respiratory protection program in place. The NDI supervisor
shall ensure all personnel are trained in the proper care and use of PPE and shall enforce its
proper use. Refer to Chapter 14 for additional guidance and information.
42.2. General Requirements.
   42.2.1. Compressed Gases. Compressed gases commonly used in nondestructive inspection
   (NDI) and/or oil analysis program (OAP) laboratories are nitrous oxide, acetylene and sulfur
   hexafluoride. Care and attention must be given to handling, storage, marking and disposition
   of all compressed gas cylinders. Personnel working with compressed gases and gas cylinders
   shall be trained and have a thorough knowledge of compressed gas characteristics, cylinders,
   valves, markings and, at least, a thorough comprehension of applicable parts of TO 42B5-1-
   2, Gas Cylinders, Use, Handling, and Storage.
       42.2.1.1. Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) is a colorless, odorless, nontoxic, nonflammable gas.
       In high concentrations, it can cause asphyxiation by displacing oxygen. To preclude
       asphyxiation, do not release large quantities of the gas in unvented work areas. SF6 exists
       in most X-ray tube heads. SF6 leakage during normal X-ray tube repair does not pose an
       asphyxiation hazard. However, when heated, SF6 liberates hazardous fluorine gas.
       Precautions must be taken to guard against inhalation of SF6 released from energized or
       hot X-ray tubes.
       42.2.1.2. Compressed Air. Compressed air, especially at high pressures, can cause
       personal injury, such as propelling foreign particles into workers‘ eyes. Compressed air
       used for cleaning shall be reduced to less than 30-psig and used with effective chip
       guarding and PPE. Refer to Chapter 40, Compressed Gases, for additional guidance.
   42.2.2. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping is essential to safe operations in the NDI and
   OAP laboratories. All work and storage areas shall be kept clean. Equipment and materials
   shall be stored in a proper and orderly manner. Floors shall be free of spilled liquids to
   minimize slips and falls. Refer to Chapter 5, Housekeeping, for additional guidance.
   42.2.3. Ventilation Systems. Only basic guidelines for NDI and/or OAP laboratory
   ventilation are provided in this standard. For more details on permissible exposure limits,
   flow rate requirements and design criteria, refer to UFC 4-024-01, Security Engineering:
   Procedures for Designing Airborne Chemical, Biological, and Radiological Protection for
   Buildings, ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
   Operations and Maintenance, and AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health
   Exposure Controls. Ventilation for OAP spectrometers shall also comply with TO and
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       863



  manufacturer‘s requirements. Refer to BE‘s OEH risk assessment and paragraph 2.3 for
  additional guidance.
     42.2.3.1. Ventilation fans shall run for a sufficient time after a job is complete to
     minimize residual vapors. Adequate makeup air shall be provided so that exhaust air is
     replaced. Surface area exhaust ventilation evaluations shall be conducted at least
     annually.
     42.2.3.2. As a minimum, areas that may require an evaluation for adequate ventilation
     include cleaning areas, penetrant tanks, remover tanks, penetrant inspection viewing
     booths, stationary magnetic particle units, film processing rooms and the OAP work area.
     Ventilation evaluation frequency is determined by BE in the OEH risk assessment.
  42.2.4. Occupational Health.
     42.2.4.1. Hazardous Chemicals. Chemical and petroleum products used in NDI and OAP
     may cause respiratory irritation, skin irritation or dermatitis. Adequate ventilation,
     respiratory protection and PPE shall be provided when required by Air Force directives
     or when specified by the installation Ground Safety office or BE. Where the eyes or body
     parts may be exposed to injurious corrosive materials, a suitable emergency shower and
     eyewash unit for quick drenching or flushing of the eyes or body shall be provided. If
     personnel are exposed to an eye irritant, a portable eye wash that provides 15 minutes
     continuous flow may be used in place of a plumbed eye wash. Medical attention shall be
     obtained as soon as practical after adequate flushing and/or drenching of the eyes and/or
     body. Refer to Chapter 19, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units, for guidelines on
     plumbed emergency showers and eye wash stations.
     42.2.4.2. Ultraviolet Radiation (UV). Electric arc and the mercury vapor lamps in oil
     analysis instruments can emit harmful ultraviolet radiation. Light shields provided in the
     instrument shall be used. UV black lights used in penetrant and magnetic particle
     inspection shall be checked for cracked lenses and filters prior to use. Battery powered
     black lights shall only be used when it is impossible to use a 110/220 volt powered light.
     TO 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods, Basic Theory, gives detailed
     instructions for testing of black lights. Warning: Unfiltered UV can be harmful to the
     eyes and skin. Black light bulbs shall not be operated without proper lenses and/or filters.
     Cracked, chipped or ill-fitting lenses and/or filters shall be replaced before using the
     lamp. Prolonged direct exposure of hands to the filtered black light main beam may be
     harmful. White cotton glove liners or other suitable gloves shall be worn when exposing
     hands to the main beam. UV-A filtering safety glasses shall also be worn. Some black
     light bulbs reach temperatures of 750°F (399°C). Warning: Black lights can severely
     burn hands, arms, face or other exposed body areas and ignite fuel vapors. Black lights
     shall not be operated when flammable vapors are present.
     42.2.4.3. Ionizing Radiation. Personnel who may be exposed to ionizing radiation during
     the normal course of their duties shall wear personal radiation monitoring devices. These
     devices shall be individually issued and worn IAW guidance provided by BE and TO
     33B-1-1, Chapter 6. Exposure levels at shielded and/or unshielded operating locations
     (X-ray machine control station) and areas accessible to non-monitored personnel are
     continuously monitored during each operation with survey meters to determine ionizing
864                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      radiation levels. Refer to OSHA 1910.1096, Ionizing Radiation, and AFMAN 48-125,
      Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, for additional guidance and information on
      ionizing radiation operations.
      42.2.4.4. Most X-ray equipment is designed to minimize the danger of direct or stray
      radiation. Excessive X-ray or gamma radiation exposure is harmful, and failure to comply
      with safety procedures may result in serious injury to personnel. Coordinate initial
      operational and structural designs, and all changes, with the installation Radiation Safety
      Officer (usually the BE or assigned to BE). Refer to TO 33B-1-1, paragraph 6.8., for
      additional guidance and information on radiation protection requirements.
      42.2.4.5. Air and Water Pollution. Petroleum products and film processing chemicals
      shall be disposed of IAW AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, AFI 32-7080, Pollution
      Prevention Program, AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, and the
      installation Environmental Management office.
      42.2.4.6. Supervisors shall contact the installation Ground Safety and Environmental
      Management offices, and BE to help evaluate new chemicals, machines or processes
      prior to introduction into the work area. Once evaluated, supervisors shall brief personnel
      according to AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.
      42.2.4.7. Precautions with eyewear. Personnel who wear contact lenses shall identify this
      to their supervisor and refer to the appropriate MSDS for possible hazards involved in
      wearing contact lenses around chemicals. Photo-chromatic lenses (lenses that darken
      when exposed to sunlight or ultraviolet light), sunglasses and colored contacts reduce the
      visibility of fluorescent indications and may prevent an inspector from seeing faint
      indications. Therefore, such lenses shall not be worn when performing fluorescent
      penetrant or fluorescent magnetic particle inspections.
  42.2.5. Fire Prevention.
      42.2.5.1. Storage, use and handling of flammable and combustible liquids shall be IAW
      Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, and in coordination with the installation
      Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight.
      42.2.5.2. Supervisors shall ensure that:
         42.2.5.2.1. Personnel are trained on the location, selection and use of fire
         extinguishers, alarm systems and evacuation procedures IAW procedures in Chapter
         6, Fire Protection and Prevention.
         42.2.5.2.2. Fire extinguishers shall be securely mounted, readily accessible, in a
         serviceable condition and clearly visible. Directional arrows shall be provided to
         indicate the location of extinguishers that are obstructed to the sight and the arrow
         shall be marked with the extinguisher classification. Refer to UFC 3-120-01, Air
         Force Sign Standard, for additional information and contact the installation FES
         Flight when deficiencies exist.
         42.2.5.2.3. All fire exits shall be kept unlocked and easily accessible at all times
         when the area is occupied.
      42.2.5.3. Operations using petroleum solvents and removers for cleaning are carefully
      evaluated for fire and health hazards.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         865



          42.2.5.3.1. Penetrants. Petroleum-based penetrants are combustible and have a
          flashpoint of approximately 175o F.
          42.2.5.3.2. Developers. Non-aqueous developers are flammable and may have a
          flashpoint as low as 50o F.
          42.2.5.3.3. Solvents and Removers. Deodorized kerosene and PD680 Type II are
          combustible petroleum distillates with flashpoints of approximately 140 o F. These
          shall be handled carefully and kept away from heat and open flames.
          42.2.5.3.4. Storage. Penetrants, deodorized kerosene, PD680 Type II, aerosol cans of
          penetrants, removers and magnetic particle baths are combustible and/or flammable
          materials and shall be stored IAW Chapter 22.
      42.2.5.4. Housekeeping. Soiled rags, paper towels, craft paper and other trash
      contaminated with oil or grease shall be placed in self-closing metal containers plainly
      marked to indicate contents. At the end of each shift, these containers will be emptied or
      placed in an approved location outside the shop for pickup or disposal IAW guidance
      from the installation Environmental Management office. Clean rags shall be kept in
      covered metal containers.
   42.2.6. Electrical Safety. NDI equipment to be used in hazardous areas shall meet TO 1-1-
   688, Use of Electronic Equipment in Hazardous Areas, and NFPA 70, National Electrical
   Code, requirements.
42.3. NDI Specific Requirements.
   42.3.1. Penetrant Inspection. The following are minimum safety and PPE requirements:
      42.3.1.1. Provide adequate ventilation when penetrant inspection is performed. Consult
      BE‘s OEH risk assessment to determine if respiratory protection is required. If process
      not already evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3
      and Chapter 14 for additional guidance.
      42.3.1.2. Continuous contact with penetrant materials may cause skin irritation and
      remove natural body oils. When handling penetrant materials, wear appropriate gloves,
      i.e., nitrile, neoprene or other gloves approved by BE, and keep insides of gloves clean.
      Wash exposed skin with soap and water. Do not allow cleaners and removers to come in
      direct contact with the skin.
      42.3.1.3. Wear appropriate eye protection, apron and gloves when spraying penetrant or
      processing parts in tanks. Contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3
      and Chapter 14 for additional guidance on PPE requirements.
      42.3.1.4. Avoid exposing pressurized spray cans to excessive heat or open flames.
      Temperatures in excess of 120o F may cause the can to burst with possible injury to
      personnel.
      42.3.1.5. Store penetrant materials in cool dry areas protected from direct sunlight.
      42.3.1.6. Place properly rated electric insulating floor matting on the floor in front of the
      penetrant line to reduce electrical and slipping hazards. This matting shall extend at least
      24 inches past each end of the penetrant line IAW TO 33B-1-1, paragraph 2.8.5.
866                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      42.3.1.7. Do not lay hot black lights on combustible surfaces. Provide brackets or
      hangers in the area of black light use.
      42.3.1.8. Because of electrical hazards when washing parts, ensure workers do not
      handle black lights at the penetrant rinse station. When practical, permanently mount
      black lights at the wash station.
  42.3.2. Magnetic Particle Inspection. Magnetic particle inspection hazards include exposure
  to oils, pastes and electrical current. The following safety requirements shall be observed:
      42.3.2.1. Rubber insulating floor matting, rated for the voltage of the equipment being
      worked on, shall be placed in front of magnetic particle units and shall be replaced when
      worn to one-half original thickness (approximately 1/8 inch). Matting shall be in one
      continuous length and extend at least 24 inches past the ends of the equipment IAW TO
      33B-1-1, paragraph 3.8.3.
      42.3.2.2. Arcing from poor contact between the heads of the stationary magnetic particle
      machine or excessive magnetizing current may injure the eyes or cause ignition of
      combustible particle baths. Ensure good electrical contact between the heads and the
      inspected part to prevent these hazards.
      42.3.2.3. Use care when handling articles placed between the heads of a magnetizing unit
      to prevent hand injuries.
      42.3.2.4. Since nontoxic, continuous exposure to oils and pastes in the wet bath method
      may cause dermatitis or cracking of the skin, appropriate protective gloves shall be used.
      42.3.2.5. The following minimum safety requirements apply when using a magnetic
      particle suspension oil with a flashpoint less than 200o F in a Type II stationary magnetic
      particle machine:
         42.3.2.5.1. Provide an adequate surface area exhaust ventilation system as
         determined by BE‘s OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraph 2.3 for additional
         guidance.
         42.3.2.5.2. Maintain less than 25 gallons of liquid suspension in the tank.
         42.3.2.5.3. Cover the oil with a screened drain board.
         42.3.2.5.4. Provide a portable fire extinguisher, sufficient in size and/or volume to
         suppress any fire which may occur from the oil. The fire extinguisher size and/or
         volume shall be determined by the installation FES Flight.
      42.3.2.6. Prods are handheld electrodes attached to cables to transmit the magnetizing
      current from the source to the item being inspected. Prods shall not be used on aircraft
      parts or in any hazardous area.
  42.3.3. Eddy Current and Ultrasonic Inspection. Eddy current and ultrasonic equipment can
  be used in and around aircraft provided the following electrical safety guidelines are
  followed:
      42.3.3.1. Exercise care when performing maintenance on or around the cathode-ray tube
      (CRT) as a violent implosion can occur if the CRT is broken.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     867



     42.3.3.2. Ensure the CRT is electrically discharged IAW applicable TO or
     manufacturer‘s technical manuals prior to performing any maintenance on the equipment.
     42.3.3.3. An extreme hazard exists if eddy current and ultrasonic equipment are used
     improperly in hazardous areas. Caution: An eddy current test generates an electrical
     charge which, in a volatile atmosphere, could result in an explosion.
  42.3.4. Radiographic Inspection. This section covers minimum essential safety requirements
  for industrial radiography. Refer to TO 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods, Basic
  Theory, for more detailed coverage of radiographic inspection procedures and radiation
  protection standards, inspection requirements, equipment selection and operational
  procedures.
     42.3.4.1. Supervisors will:
         42.3.4.1.1. Maintain storage and operational control of all industrial radiographic
         equipment.
         42.3.4.1.2. Provide personal dosimeter for individuals who may be exposed to
         ionizing radiation during their duties. Refer to AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing
         Radiation Dosimetry, TO 33B-1-1, and BE for instructions on issue and wear of
         monitoring devices.
         42.3.4.1.3. Procure and maintain adequate radiation survey instruments and establish
         a survey instrument calibration program.
         42.3.4.1.4. Maintain exposure devices, radiographic facilities, radiation warning
         signs and associated safety equipment.
         42.3.4.1.5. Maintain utilization logs as required by TO 33B-1-1.
         42.3.4.1.6. Keep a copy of the latest radiation protection survey report performed by
         BE or the United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM) and
         ensure corrective actions are taken and documented on all report recommendations.
         42.3.4.1.7. Use the full length of control cables and coolant hoses to keep cooler and
         control unit as far away from the X-ray tube as possible.
         42.3.4.1.8. If working from ground level, in an enclosure, elevate the X-ray control
         and cooler on a secure frame or maintenance stand at least 18 inches above ground.
     42.3.4.2. Qualification of Industrial Radiographers. All industrial radiographers shall
     complete an Air Force-approved course on use of industrial X-ray equipment, including
     radiation hazard control, and demonstrate an understanding of approved radiographic
     practice. Qualification of radiographers shall be through the US Air Force Nondestructive
     Inspection Course, or through equivalent training courses conducted by industry or
     civilian institutions. The AF NDI Program Office, Tinker AFB, Oklahoma, shall approve
     training if non-US Air Force courses will be substituted for Air Education and Training
     Command courses.
     42.3.4.3. Radiation Protection Surveys for Shielded Installations.
868                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         42.3.4.3.1. A radiation protection survey of all new installations and existing
         installations not previously surveyed shall be made by a health physicist or a qualified
         bioenvironmental engineer before the installation is placed in routine operation. The
         installation shall be inspected to verify the safety of workers in adjacent areas, the
         operation for audible or visible warning signals, interlocks, mechanical or electrical
         restrictions for positioning of the radiation source, delay switches, and other devices
         that have a bearing on radiation protection as required in TO 33B-1-1, and
         manufacturer‘s instructions.
         42.3.4.3.2. A re-survey or evaluation by a health physicist or qualified
         bioenvironmental engineer shall be conducted annually or when changes are made in
         shielding, operation, workload, equipment or occupancy of adjacent areas which may
         have compromised radiation protection. If supplementary shielding is installed as a
         result of a radiation protection survey, another survey shall be made to confirm the
         adequacy of the shielding after the modification. Radiation exposure measurements
         shall be made in all adjacent areas that can be occupied. The measurements shall be
         made under practical conditions of operation which produce the greatest exposure at
         the point of interest, i.e., X-ray apparatus shall be operated at the maximum kilo-
         voltage and at its maximum milliamperage for continuous operation. When
         evaluating the survey results, consideration shall be given to actual operating
         conditions, including workload, use factors, occupancy factors and any attenuation
         provided by objects permanently in the path of the useful beam.
         42.3.4.3.3. All interlocks, safety and warning devices, remote monitoring systems,
         etc., shall be inspected for proper operation.
         42.3.4.3.4. A qualified industrial radiographer will establish a perimeter for
         unshielded installations each time portable equipment is used in open areas to ensure
         exposures are adequately controlled.
         42.3.4.3.5. When radiography requires the use of an industrial radiographer and
         radiation monitors, the X-ray machine controls shall be placed so all monitors of the
         entire perimeter of the barrier can be seen or heard by the radiographer. If this is not
         possible, adequate means of communications may include two-way radios, whistles,
         electronic/propellant-acitivated noise alarms or ultrasonic infrared intrusion barriers,
         but need not be limited to these methods.
      42.3.4.4. Radiation Protection Standards. AFMAN 48-125, AFI 48-148 and TO 33B-1-1,
      Chapter 6, Section 8, are the basic radiation protection standards and shall be maintained
      in the NDI office at all times.
      42.3.4.5. Calibration and Use of Radiation Survey Instruments. During radiographic
      operations, at least two operable, calibrated survey instruments shall be used during
      unshielded radiographic operations and one during shielded operations. These
      instruments shall have an adequate instrument response for the range of radiation
      energies encountered.
      42.3.4.6. Personnel Monitoring Requirements. A personal monitoring device (film badge
      or thermoluminescent dosimeter [TLD]) shall be worn by all industrial radiographers
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         869



       during all radiographic operations. A personal monitoring device shall be assigned to and
       worn by only one person as required by AFMAN 48-125.
       42.3.4.7. Classification of Installations. Radiographic installations are classified as
       shielded and unshielded.
42.4. Oil Analysis Program (OAP) Specific Requirements. Hazards present during oil
analysis operations include exposure to acids, electric current and petroleum distillates.
   42.4.1. Skin contact with cleaners and solvents shall be avoided. Workers shall use BE-
   approved impervious gloves when handling trichloroethane. Mechanical ventilation shall be
   provided when cleaning sample vessels IAW the requirements in the BE OEH risk
   assessment and ACGIH‘s Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for
   Operations and Maintenance.
   42.4.2. Personnel performing spectrometer maintenance with power applied shall be
   thoroughly familiar with safety and grounding procedures in the TO and manufacturer‘s
   maintenance manual. A safety observer shall be present when power-on maintenance is
   performed.
   42.4.3. Waste oil and cleaning rags shall not be allowed to accumulate in the OAP lab.
   Waste oil, not to exceed five (5) gallons, may be stored in the lab in an approved self-closing
   metal waste container. Waste cleaning rags and towels shall be removed from the lab at the
   end of each shift.
   42.4.4. Hot electrodes and sample vessels used in the atomic emission spectrometer can burn
   hands. Used electrodes shall be removed with a folded tissue or towel. Tongs shall be used to
   remove overheated sample vessels.
   42.4.5. To prevent eye damage from UV radiation, light from spectrometers or other analysis
   equipment shall not be viewed with the naked eye. Light shields and filters in the instrument
   shall be used.
42.5. Aircraft Maintenance NDI Operations. Personnel performing NDI operations on
aircraft shall be familiar with general aircraft safety procedures and safety procedures associated
with NDI. The major sources of aircraft maintenance accidents are falls, strains from lifting, fire
or explosion, electrical shock, crushing of body or limbs in moving components and walking into
protruding objects. NDI maintenance personnel working on aircraft shall be familiar with the
hazards of the aircraft they work on. Refer to applicable aircraft technical orders for additional
guidance and information.
42.6. NDI Equipment and Fire Protection Systems. Contact the installation FES Flight prior
to operating equipment which utilizes black lights, X-rays, UV and/or infrared rays. Some fire
suppression systems are actuated by UV or infrared detectors and must be disabled, or other
management actions taken, prior to using this NDI equipment to preclude actuation of the fire
suppression systems.
42.7. NDI and Oil Analysis Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
 870                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   42.7.1. If there is a respiratory protection program in place, does it meet the requirements of
   AFOSH Standard 48-137? Reference 42.1
   42.7.2. Do workers receive, as a minimum, training consistent with a thorough
   comprehension of the applicable parts of TO 42B5-1-2? Reference 42.2.1
   42.7.3. Does the ventilation system meet requirements of UFC 4-024-01, ACGIH‘s
   Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Operations and Maintenance
   and AFMAN 48-155? Reference 42.2.3
   42.7.4. Does BE perform an annual surface area exhaust ventilation evaluation? Reference
   42.2.3.1
   42.7.5. Is a suitable emergency shower and eyewash unit provided within the work area for
   quick drenching or flushing of the eyes or body where workers are exposed to hazardous
   materials? Reference 42.2.4.1
   42.7.6. Are UV black lights used in penetrant and magnetic particle inspection checked prior
   to use for cracked filters and lenses? Reference 42.2.4.2
   42.7.7. Do personnel who may be exposed to ionizing radiation during their duties or
   occupation wear personal radiation monitoring devices? Reference 42.2.4.3)
   42.7.8. Are petroleum products and film processing chemicals disposed of IAW AFI 32-
   7042, AFI 32-7080, AFPAM 32-7043 and the installation Environmental Management
   office? Reference 42.2.4.5
   42.7.9. Do supervisors contact the installation Ground Safety and Environmental offices, and
   BE when new chemicals, machines or processes are introduced into the work area?
   Reference 42.2.4.6
   42.7.10. Is the storage, use and handling of flammable and combustible liquids coordinated
   with the installation FES Flight? Reference 42.2.5.1
   42.7.11. Are all workers trained on the location, selection and use of fire extinguishers,
   alarm systems and evacuation procedures IAW Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention?
   Reference 42.2.5.2.1
   42.7.12. Does all NDI equipment used in hazardous areas meet TO 1-1-688, Use of
   Electronic Equipment in Hazardous Areas, and NFPA 70, National Electrical Code,
   requirements? Reference 42.2.6
   42.7.13. Have all industrial radiographers completed an Air Force-approved course of
   instruction in the use of industrial X-ray equipment, including radiation hazard control?
   Reference 42.3.4.2
   42.7.14. Are all waste cleaning rags and towels removed from the lab at the end of each
   shift? Reference 42.4.3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      871



                                         Chapter 43

            LIQUID NITROGEN (LN2), OXYGEN (LOX) AND CRYOGENS

43.1. Specific Hazards.
   43.1.1. Physical Hazards.
      43.1.1.1. Liquid nitrogen (LN2) or liquid oxygen (LOX) hazards are primarily associated
      with phase change and low temperature effects of cryogens. A tremendous volume
      increase occurs when either liquid undergoes a phase change from liquid to gas. When
      LN2 vaporizes, each cubic foot of liquid expands to 695 cubic feet of nitrogen gas. For
      LOX, the expansion ratio is 860 to 1. Containment of cryogens may create a tremendous
      pressure increase if liquid to gas conversion occurs, so a sealed container can become a
      bomb. Expansion ratio of LN2 can displace oxygen in a confined space, causing an
      asphyxiation hazard. Expansion of LOX can cause oxygen enrichment, producing fire
      and explosion hazards. See paragraph 43.1.3 for additional information.
      43.1.1.2. The cold temperature of LN2 (-320o F) and LOX (-297o F) can alter the
      strength, ductility, thermal expansion, thermal conductivity and heat capacity of
      materials. Mild carbon steels become brittle and failure-prone when exposed to cryogens.
      However, properly treated metals such as austenitic steels, nickel, aluminum, copper and
      a number of alloys are safe for low temperature work.
      43.1.1.3. LN2 can liquefy oxygen from the air it contacts. Therefore, an open container
      of LN2 will slowly condense air causing a LOX concentration buildup within the LN2.
      The presence of LOX within LN2 can cause unexpected chemical reactions with other
      materials. See paragraphs 43.1.3 and 43.1.4 for additional information on LOX reactivity
      with chemicals.
   43.1.2. Physiological Hazards.
      43.1.2.1. Evaporation of LN2 in a poorly ventilated or unventilated enclosure may reduce
      the oxygen content of the air and produce asphyxiation and death. Because the brain
      requires the most oxygen, a reduction in available oxygen will first affect the mental
      processes. A slight impairment of the ability to concentrate and think clearly is an early
      symptom, which then progresses to a loss of consciousness. Unconsciousness can occur
      in seconds in atmospheres with very high concentrations of nitrogen. Recovery in fresh
      air is rapid and complete if exposure to high concentrations of nitrogen is short.
      Prolonged exposure can cause death.
      43.1.2.2. The extremely cold temperature of LN2 and LOX can freeze or seriously
      damage human tissue upon contact. The effect is similar to frostbite or thermal burn and
      is instantaneous. Uninsulated parts of equipment are cooled to extremely low
      temperatures by LN2 and LOX and will freeze to the skin on contact. Flesh can be badly
      burned and severely torn in an attempt to free it, which must be done immediately since
      the results of prolonged skin contact are worse.
   43.1.3. LOX Chemical Hazards. Normal air contains about 21 percent oxygen and 79
   percent nitrogen. LOX contains about 4,100 times more oxygen than the same volume of air.
 872                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   Under these conditions, combustible materials and organic compounds react at explosive
   rates, and materials not normally thought of as combustible can burn or explode. Because of
   this, control of combustible and potentially reactive materials in LOX work is as important as
   the control of ignition sources when flammable gases or liquids are handled. Because of the
   severe reaction of LOX with various materials, unauthorized substitutions of various LOX-
   service parts, fittings, hoses, seals, lubricants and so forth can be disastrous. Such reactions
   can arise out of hydrocarbon contamination or substitution of unsuitable materials.
   Hydrocarbon contamination can cause explosions and fires. Oil, dirt and other foreign debris
   are a special concern during aircraft servicing where serious aircraft fires have resulted from
   combustible foreign matter in aircraft LOX systems. LOX must be handled only in areas
   where it will not come in contact with hydrocarbon materials when leaked or spilled,
   including all areas where LOX might flow after a spill. If spilled onto asphalt, LOX will seep
   into cracks and form shock-sensitive compounds which can explode violently upon impact.
   LOX spills also cause localized atmospheric oxygen enrichment, which increases the fire
   danger until dissipated.
   43.1.4. Solvents and Chemical Hazards. Some solvents and chemicals used for LN2 and
   LOX production and storage cause skin irritation or burns, and can be absorbed through the
   skin. It may also cause liver damage and poisonous if taken internally.
   43.1.5. Spill Hazards. LN2 and LOX spills may cause asphyxiation, fire, explosion, severe
   cryogenic burns or equipment damage. Whenever the cryogenic liquid is exposed to the
   atmosphere, moisture condenses from the air and forms a fog over the immediate area. Refer
   to the installation and work area spill plans and the National Institute for Occupational Safety
   and Health (NIOSH) Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards (www.cdc.gov/niosh/npg/) for
   additional information on handling cryogenic spills.
43.2. General Requirements.
   43.2.1. Characteristics and Production of LN2 and LOX.
       43.2.1.1. Liquid Nitrogen. LN2 is a colorless, odorless, nonflammable, nontoxic and
       chemically inactive water-like fluid with a boiling point of -320o Fahrenheit (F). LN2,
       less dense than water, weighs approximately 6.7 pounds per gallon. The expansion ratio
       for LN2 (from LN2 to gaseous nitrogen) is 695 to 1 at normal temperature and pressure.
       The critical temperature of LN2 is -233o F at 493 pounds per square inch absolute (psia).
       At temperatures higher than this, LN2 cannot be liquefied regardless of pressure. Refer to
       Table 43.1 for physical properties of LN2 and LOX.
       43.2.1.2. Liquid Oxygen. LOX is a pale blue, nontoxic, water-like fluid with a boiling
       point of-297o F. It is heavier than water, weighing approximately 9.5 pounds per gallon.
       The expansion ratio for LOX is 860 to 1 at normal temperature and pressure. The critical
       temperature of oxygen is -181o F at 737 psia. At temperatures higher than this, LOX
       cannot be liquefied regardless of pressure. Liquid oxygen is attracted to an electromagnet
       much like iron and will combine readily with other substances to actively support
       combustion.
   43.2.2. Production of LN2 and LOX.
       43.2.2.1. Storage Tanks (Cryotainers). LN2 and LOX storage tanks are constructed with
       an inner cylinder supported in an outer vacuum insulated jacket to reduce radiation and
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         873



       convection heat transfer. The evacuated space between the inner and outer vessels
       contains a highly efficient insulating material, which reduces boil off of the LN2 or LOX.
       Pressure buildup in the inner tank, necessary to transfer liquid from the tank, is
       accomplished by vaporizing liquid in coils located beneath the tank. All operating
       controls are located in a cabinet at the front end of the tank. Storage tanks are
       manufactured in various sizes and shall be designed and constructed IAW the American
       Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. Safety relief
       valves shall be installed so moisture cannot collect, freeze and interfere with proper
       operation of the valves. Frangible disks shall also be included in the design of pressurized
       tanks. Note: Tanks operating at atmospheric pressure do not require pressure relief
       devices if adequately vented. Refer to Figure 43.1 and 29 CFR 1910.104., Oxygen, for
       additional guidance.
   43.2.3. Generating Plants. Air Force LN2 and LOX plants can typically produce one and
   one-half to five tons of liquid oxygen per day (24 hours). These plants produce four products:
   liquid and gaseous nitrogen, and liquid and gaseous oxygen. LN2 and LOX are generated
   from atmospheric air through five basic steps: compression, purification, refrigeration,
   expansion and distillation as seen in Figure 43.1

Table 43.1. Physical Properties of LN2 and LOX.
                         Physical Properties of LN2 and LOX
Property                                               LN2                        LOX
Boiling Point                                    -320oF (-195oC)            -297o F (-182o C)
Freezing Point                                   -346oF (-210oC)             -361oF (-218oC)
Density, Liquid                               6.74 lb./gal at -320oF      9.52 lb./gal at -297oF
                                                     (-195oC)                   (-182oC)
Liquid-to-Gas Expansion Ratio (Gas Vol/Liq              695                        860
Vol)
Critical Pressure                                   493 psia1                   737 psia1
Critical Temperature                             -233oF (-147oC)             -181oF (-118oC)
       1
Note: = psia (pounds-force per square inch absolute)
 874                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Figure 43.1. Cutaway Drawing of a Typical LN2 and LOX Storage Tank.




Figure 43.2. Generating Plant Flow.




   43.2.4. High Pressure. Pressures approaching 4,000 pounds per square inch (psi) may be
   found in production facilities. To prevent personnel injury and property damage from
   whipping of failed lines, all high-pressure lines shall be secured with brackets, braces or
   other suitable tie-down devices.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         875



   43.2.5. Contamination. Atmospheric contamination during production runs may introduce
   impurities into the cryogens. To avoid this hazard, the following operations are not permitted
   during production:
       43.2.5.1. Painting.
       43.2.5.2. Welding, cutting and brazing.
       43.2.5.3. Solvent use.
       43.2.5.4. Any operation generating toxic and noxious gases or vapors.
43.3. Cryogenic Facility Siting.
   43.3.1. Safe Distance Criteria. The special hazards associated with LN2 and LOX require
   care be exercised in siting these facilities. Production or storage facilities of 100 gallons or
   more shall conform to the following minimum separation distances. Refer to UFC 3-600-01,
   Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities and TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft
   and Static Grounding/Bonding. IAW AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, and
   DoD 6055.09-STD, DOD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, if the cryogen is
   used as a propellant and/or fuel, the most stringent distance shall apply.
       43.3.1.1. Stationary Cryogenic Containers, Cylinders and Tanks. Stationary containers
       located outdoors shall be separated from exposure hazards IAW the minimum separation
       distances indicated in Table 43.2 Refer to NFPA 55, Standard for the Storage, Use, and
       Handling of Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids in Portable and Stationary
       Containers, Cylinders, and Tanks, Chapter 8, for additional guidance.

Table 43.2. Minimum Separation Distance Between Stationary Cryogenic Containers and
Exposure Hazards.
Minimum Separation Distance Between Stationary Cryogenic Containers and Exposure
                                            Hazards
Type of Exposure                                                Minimum Distance
                                                            Feet                Meters
1 - Buildings (regardless of construction type) 1             1                   0.3
2 - Wall Openings                                             1                   0.3
3 - Air Intakes                                              10                    3
                   1
4 - Property Lines                                            5                   1.5
5 - Places of Public Assembly                                50                   15
6 - Public Sidewalks                                         10                    3
7 - Non-ambulatory patient areas                             50                   15
8 - Combustible materials (papers, leaves, weeds, dry        15                   4.5
grass, debris) 1
9 - Incompatible hazardous materials1                        20                   6.1
        1
Note: = A 2-hour fire barrier wall shall be permitted in lieu of the distances specified by
Table 43.2., for items 1, 4, 8, and 9
       43.3.1.2. Bulk oxygen systems (100 gallons or more) located outdoors shall be separated
       from exposure hazards IAW the requirements of Table 43.3, as applicable.
 876                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   43.3.2. Facility Requirements.
       43.3.2.1. Security fencing and lighting shall be IAW AFI 23-201, Fuels Management..
       43.3.2.2. LOX production and storage facilities shall be permanently placarded to
       indicate ―OXYGEN—NO SMOKING—NO OPEN FLAMES‖ or an equivalent warning.
       43.3.2.3. Notify the installation CE prior to installation, modification or repair of utility
       services (water, electricity, sewage, telephone).
       43.3.2.4. Joint sealer shall be LOX-compatible in LOX handling and storage areas
       (where spills are most likely to occur). This area will cover a 25-foot radius (minimum)
       from the LOX cart fill point during servicing. The area around the LN2 and LOX plant
       itself (where spills are most likely to occur) shall be concrete. Refer to AFI 23-201 for
       additional guidance.
       43.3.2.5. A paved road shall be provided to and from the facility for delivery,
       maintenance and emergency vehicles. Refer to AFI 23-201 for additional guidance.
       43.3.2.6. Generator plants shall be permanently grounded. Storage and servicing tanks
       shall have adequate grounding points. Refer to AFI 23-201 for additional guidance.
       43.3.2.7. Generating plants shall be sited to minimize airborne contamination of the local
       area.
43.4. Occupational Health.
   43.4.1. Solvents and Chemicals. Refer to paragraphs 43.1.3 and 43.1.4 for hazards of
   chemicals used in LN2 and LOX production and storage. BE‘s OEH risk assessment
   recommends appropriate controls. Refer to paragraph 2.3 and Chapter 14 for additional
   guidance.

Table 43.3. Minimum Separation Distances Between Bulk LOX Systems and Exposure
Hazards.
   Minimum Separation Distances Between Bulk LOX Systems and Exposure Hazards
Type of Exposure                                           Minimum Distance
                                                          Feet          Meters
1 - Buildings of Type I and II construction as defined by   1            0.3
NFPA 5000
2 – Buildings of Type III, IV or V construction as         50            15
                        1
defined by NFPA 5000
3 - Wall Openings as measured from high-pressure gas       10             3
or liquefied gas regulators, pressure relief devices,
vaporizers, manifolds and interconnected piping
4 - Property Lines1                                         5            1.5
5 - Public Sidewalks 1                                     10             3
6 - Public Assembly                                        50            15
7 – Areas occupied by non-ambulatory patients as           50            15
measured from the primary pressure relief device
discharging vent and from filling and vent connections
8 – Parked Vehicles1                                       10             3
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          877



   Minimum Separation Distances Between Bulk LOX Systems and Exposure Hazards
Type of Exposure                                                   Minimum Distance
                                                                  Feet              Meters
9 – Exterior walls that encroach on the container to             See NFPA 55, 8.12.2.6
form a court with three or more sides
10 – All classes of flammable and combustible liquids
above ground:1
- 0 to 1000 gallons (3785 L)                                       25                  7.5
- Over 1000 gallons (3785 L)                                       50                  15
Note: 1 = The distances shown in items 2, 4, 5, 8 and 10 of Table 43.3 shall not apply where a
fire barrier wall having a minimum fire resistance of 2 hours, which interrupts the line of sight
between un-insulated portions of the bulk storage system and the exposure.
   43.4.2. Noise. Noise levels in generating plants can reach high levels, particularly during
   defrost, start-up and shutdown operations. AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise and
   Hearing Conservation Program, addresses program responsibilities, designation of
   hazardous noise-producing equipment and hazardous noise areas, required PPE and required
   medical examinations for workers exposed to hazardous noise. If process not already
   evaluated, contact BE for an OEH risk assessment. Refer to paragraphs 2.3 and 3.1.2.11 for
   additional guidance.
   43.4.3. First Aid Medical Treatment For Cryogenic Burns. Remove the victim from
   exposure immediately and transport to the nearest emergency room as soon as possible.
   Identify exposure to LN2 or LOX. Keep the victim warm and dry by wrapping exposed areas
   in a blanket. No attempt to re-warm frozen body parts shall be made until the victim is under
   proper medical care. Affected parts will not be rubbed because the tissues may be damaged.
   Clothing that may restrict circulation to the frozen area shall be loosened or removed. Do not
   allow the victim to drink alcoholic beverages or smoke, because these actions decrease blood
   flow to the frozen tissue. Control of shock and pain and re-warming of frozen parts shall be
   done only by medical services personnel.
43.5. Safety Precautions When Working With LN2 and LOX.
   43.5.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for LN2 or LOX. PPE is of two distinct types
   — cryogenic and chemical protection; and may not be interchangeable. Local procedures
   shall be developed to prevent hydrocarbon or chemical contaminated PPE from being used
   during cryogen transfers. Figure 43.3 lists the minimum required PPE for LN2 or LOX
   operations. Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and TO 00-25-172 provide
   additional PPE information.
       43.5.1.1. Personnel handling or transferring LN2 or LOX shall wear clean, intact,
       cryogenic liquid protective gloves with gauntlet cuffs approved by BE. Non-absorbent
       long sleeves shall extend to the gloves. Cuffless trousers shall be worn outside leather
       boots or over high-top leather shoes to shed spilled liquid. Boots and shoes shall have no
       mesh sides or air holes and will be tightly laced to prevent spilled cryogen seeping inside.
       Only tightly woven materials shall be worn during LN2 or LOX operations. A face
       shield, eye protection (unvented safety goggles or safety glasses with side shields) and
       apron (leather or other BE approved) shall be worn.
 878                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       43.5.1.2. LN2 and LOX both saturate clothing. Such contact holds the LN2/LOX against
       the skin and may be more hazardous than a direct splash. Contaminated clothing will be
       removed, hung up and air dried for one hour. Figure 43.3, TO 00-25-172 and Chapter
       14 list PPE needed for chemicals used in LN2 and LOX operations.
   43.5.2. Low Temperature Precautions:
       43.5.2.1. Avoid splashing on exposed skin. Cryogenics burn on contact.
       43.5.2.2. Do not touch an uninsulated cryogenic surface unless wearing the proper PPE.
       Bare skin will freeze to any uninsulated cryogenic surface and portions of the skin will
       continue to adhere to the surface after removal of the affected part. Remove the affected
       part immediately, as leaving the skin in contact with the surface will freeze the
       underlying tissue and cause additional damage.
       43.5.2.3. Assume all surfaces are cold until proven otherwise. External frost may not
       always be present.
   43.5.3. Equipment and Materials Precautions:
       43.5.3.1. Most metal becomes very brittle at cryogenic temperatures and will shatter or
       crack under stress.
       43.5.3.2. Valves may freeze if any moisture is present in the system. Droplets of
       moisture can freeze into balls and pit valve seats causing them to leak.
       43.5.3.3. Most glass and some plastics will shatter on contact with LN2 or LOX due to
       thermal stress.
   43.5.4. Asphyxiation Prevention:
       43.5.4.1. Small amounts of liquid generate large amounts of gas. Avoid using cryogenics
       in small unventilated rooms.
       43.5.4.2. LN2, when vaporized, is initially heavier than air, sinks to the floor or lowest
       point, and displaces oxygen. There may not be sufficient oxygen remaining to support
       life.
43.6. Fire Prevention and Protection.
   43.6.1. Always avoid contact between LOX and petroleum-based products. Such a mixture
   is shock sensitive and will explode when struck. Note: Most cosmetics and hair care products
   are petroleum-based.
   43.6.2. Ensure no oil or grease is present on clothing or equipment when working with or
   around LOX. Remove and replace soiled clothes with clean ones. Remove oil or grease on
   equipment with approved non-petroleum solvents.
   43.6.3. Static electricity may ignite combustible materials in an oxygen-rich atmosphere.
   Workers shall wear only approved clothing and shall ground themselves before beginning
   LOX operations.
   43.6.4. Never use LOX for cooling people, parts, equipment or food.
   43.6.5. Avoid open containers of LN2. Although inert, LN2 is colder than LOX. It liquefies
   oxygen from the surrounding air and, therefore, an open container of LN2 will slowly
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       879



   condense oxygen from the air causing a LOX concentration buildup within the LN2. When
   the LN2 is pale blue in color, there is LOX present in the mixture. The LOX contamination
   can cause unexpected chemical reactions with other materials.
   43.6.6. Consult the installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight on fire protection and
   compatible fire fighting agents for LN2 and LOX production and storage facilities. Nitrogen
   is a fire suppressant but oxygen supports combustion. In an oxygen supported fire, stop the
   oxygen flow if possible. Use large quantities of water, preferably in the form of a spray, to
   cool the burning material. If electrical equipment is involved in the fire, ensure electrical
   power is turned off before applying water. LOX is a vigorous oxidizing agent and supports
   combustion of many materials not flammable in air. A LOX fire cannot be extinguished with
   carbon dioxide (CO), dry chemical or foam. Unless the LOX flow can be stopped or the
   combustible materials isolated from the LOX, such fires are difficult if not impossible to
   extinguish.
   43.6.7. Always maintain a clear and unobstructed access to and from LN2 and LOX facilities
   for firefighting equipment.
   43.6.8. Do not permit LOX to come in contact with organic material or flammable
   substances. Some materials react violently with oxygen under certain conditions of pressure
   and temperature. These include oil, grease, asphalt, kerosene, cloth, paint, tar and dirt, and
   anything which may contain oil or grease. If LOX is spilled on asphalt or surfaces
   contaminated with combustibles (for example, oil-soaked concrete or gravel), do not walk on
   or roll equipment over the area of the spill. Keep sources of ignition away for at least 15
   minutes after all frost has disappeared.
43.7. Electrical Safety. LN2 and LOX production plants and tank support equipment may
require electrical service up to 480 volts alternating current (AC). Use extreme care when
working around any electrical connections, panels, motors or other energized components.
Moving fluids, drive belts, removal of clothing and almost any form of friction can generate a
static charge. Ground LN2 and LOX plant components and storage tanks at all times.
43.8. Housekeeping.
   43.8.1. LOX reacts violently when it contacts many commonly used materials. Therefore, it
   is important that floors and drip pans in LOX plants and storage areas are kept in spotless
   condition. Tanks shall be kept clean and free of all hydrocarbons.
   43.8.2. Because dirty tools and equipment are sources of hydrocarbon contamination, all
   tools and equipment used with oxygen components and systems shall be kept meticulously
   clean and properly stored.
43.9. Receipt, Storage and Issue of LN2 or LOX.
   43.9.1. Because of the catastrophic consequences of mixing LN2 and LOX in storage tanks
   and carts, workers shall exercise care in verifying the correct product is transferred to the
   correct storage tank or cart. Refer to TOs 42B6-1-1, Quality Control Aviators Breathing
   Oxygen and Aviators Gaseous Breathing Oxygen, and 42B7-3-1-1, Quality Control of
   Nitrogen, for detailed procedures. Only fittings designed specifically for LOX or LN2
 880                                                                AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   equipment will be used; workers will never fabricate or use ones that are compatible with
   both LOX or LN2 equipment.
   43.9.2. At least two workers, fully knowledgeable in Air Force safety criteria and
   operational procedures, shall be within normal voice or eye contact when generating or
   transferring cryogenic fluids. This also applies to maintenance actions on cryotainers or
   plants when cryogenic fluids are present in the system. Personnel requirements for aircraft
   servicing operations shall be IAW TO 00-25-172.
   43.9.3. All transfers of LN2 and LOX shall be closely monitored to minimize the extent of
   spills or leaks. The use of drip pans is required. Asphyxiation or oxygen enrichment hazards
   will exist if a spill occurs within a building or confined space. Appropriate local emergency
   procedures shall be developed for this contingency.
43.10. Mission-limiting Weather Conditions.
   43.10.1. Each Air Force installation shall develop local procedures to ensure key personnel
   and agencies involved in high risk weather activities and operations are notified IAW the
   installation weather support document. Each installation shall employ a lightning safety
   program with a two-tiered notification system to minimize worker exposure to lightning
   hazards. Refer to Chapter 11, Weather Safety, for adverse weather program guidance.
   43.10.2. The supporting AF weather organization shall make initial notification of adverse or
   mission-limiting weather conditions to predetermined support agencies. Note: Adverse or
   mission-limiting weather conditions include strong surface winds, heavy rain, heavy snow,
   freezing precipitation and thunderstorms, i.e., frequent lightning, and the potential for
   damaging winds, heavy rain, hail and tornadoes.
   43.10.3. A Lightning Warning is in effect whenever any lightning occurs within a five (5)
   nautical mile radius of predetermined locations and activities. Workers shall cease aircraft
   LOX servicing whenever a Lightning Warning is in effect. Refer to Chapter 11 for
   additional adverse weather guidance.
43.11. Common Cryogenic Liquids, Their Properties and Precautions.
   43.11.1. While LOX and LN2 are widely used cryogens, other cryogens are also used within
   the Air Force. As with LOX and LN2, these cryogenic liquids have boiling points below
   minus 130o F (minus 90oC) and their use must be properly controlled to prevent any contact
   with the liquid, container or piping, or exposure to the gases. Common cryogenic liquids
   include nitrogen, helium, hydrogen, argon, methane, oxygen and carbon monoxide, as listed
   in Table 43.4
   43.11.2. Although liquefied carbon dioxide (CO2) does not meet the definition for a cryogen,
   at -57o C it is very cold, can burn exposed skin and shall be treated as a cryogen.
   43.11.3. Workers shall read the MSDS and safety precautions for all cryogens used.
   43.11.4. Use of Cryogenic Liquids.
       43.11.4.1. Cryogenic liquids are extremely cold, have high liquid-to-vapor expansion
       ratios and may be flammable, properties that make them dangerous to handle and use.
       43.11.4.2. Skin or eye contact with cryogenic liquids, cold equipment and materials used
       in conjunction with cryogens, or splashing liquid can cause severe burns, frostbite,
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         881



       tearing of flesh and eye damage. Vapors from boiling liquids can cause eye damage,
       freeze skin and produce oxygen deficient environments.

Table 43.4. Common Cryogenic Liquids and Their Physical Properties.
                 Common Cryogenic Liquids and Their Physical Properties
Cryogenic Liquid:     Methane     Oxygen     Argon     Carbon      Nitrogen   Helium    Hydrogen
                       CH4          O2        Ar      Monoxide        N2       He          H2
                                                          CO
Boiling Point           -161        -183      -186       -192         -196      -268       -253
(1 atm) oC (oF)        (-256)      (-297)    (-303)     (-313)       (-321)    (-452)     (-423)
Critical Pressure        673         736       710        507          492       34         188
(psig)1
Liquid Density g/L      425        1410      1402        1.250       808        125         71
Gas Density(27 oC),     0.72        1.4      1.63        0.968       2.25       0.16       0.082
g/L
Liquid-to-Gas           650         875       860        680          710       780         865
Expansion Ratio
Type Gas              Flammable   Oxygen2    Inert    Flammable      Inert      Inert   Flammable
Notes:
1
  = pounds per square inch gauge.
2
  = Although oxygen does not burn, it will support combustion. Oxygen-enriched atmospheres
may lead to violent reactions, such as rapid combustion or explosions, with incompatible
materials.
       43.11.4.3. BE‘s OEH risk assessment of the cryogenic liquid work processes identify
       hazards and recommend controls. Refer to paragraph 2.4 and Chapter 14 for additional
       guidance. Typical PPE for work with cryogenic liquids includes safety goggles, insulated
       gloves, lab coat or apron, a face shield and leather boots. Gloves should be loose enough
       to easily toss off in the event spilled cryogens enter the gloves. Supervisors shall contact
       BE if PPE concerns arise.
           43.11.4.3.1. Wear a long sleeve shirt and cuffless pants. Pants should be worn over
           the tops of boots.
           43.11.4.3.2. Wear leather boots without mesh sides or air holes. Non-leather boots
           may be worn if specifically designed for wear while handling cryogens.
           43.11.4.3.3. Do not wear jewelry or other materials that could trap spilled liquid
           against the skin.
           43.11.4.3.4. Stay out of cryogen vapor pathway.
           43.11.4.3.5. Use fume hoods when working with cryogens.
           43.11.4.3.6. Always use tongs when handling objects in liquid.
           43.11.4.3.7. Only use materials approved for use with cryogens. Unapproved
           materials such as plastic, rubber, wrought iron and carbon steel will become brittle
           and shatter. (Chemical ensemble vinyl overboots shall not be worn while handling
882                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         cryogens, except when threat of chemical/biological threat exists, as determined by
         the organization commander.)
         43.11.4.3.8. Periodically inspect equipment and remove ice and frost blockages from
         openings to prevent over pressurization.
         43.11.4.3.9. Do not tamper with pressure relief valves. Report any leaky or
         improperly set relief valves to maintenance personnel or the manufacturer.
         43.11.4.3.10. Keep equipment clean without using corrosive cleaning materials that
         could damage the metal jacket.
  43.11.5. Dispensing and Transport of Cryogenic Liquids.
      43.11.5.1. Special precautions shall be taken to prevent spills while dispensing or
      transporting cryogens and minimize exposure to liquids and vapors. The high liquid to
      vapor expansion ratio can rapidly displace all oxygen in a room and result in
      asphyxiation. Personnel using cryogens shall:
         43.11.5.1.1. Wear proper PPE when dispensing or transferring cryogenic liquids.
         43.11.5.1.2. Cool the secondary container by adding a little cryogenic liquid first,
         when obtaining liquid from a large dispensing dewar or cylinder. Dispense slowly to
         mitigate thermal stress and prevent excess splashing. Do not leave the filling
         operation unattended to avoid overfilling the container. Do not allow the cryogenic
         liquid to fall too far before reaching the receiving container.
         43.11.5.1.3. Ensure the secondary container is secured when manually pouring liquid
         into a smaller dewar. Do not overfill, fill to less than 80 percent full to allow room for
         expansion and use a phase separator, if available, to control the vapor path while
         pouring.
         43.11.5.1.4. Use at least two (2) personnel to transport cryogenic liquids. Use
         handcarts equipped with brakes to move large dewars and cylinders. Note: Avoid
         traveling in an elevator with a dewar. Spills or elevator failures may be dangerous in
         this restricted space as oxygen could be displaced if the cylinder failed or leaked. If
         this is unavoidable, ensure the buddy system is used and have another employee
         remain outside the elevator during transport.
         43.11.5.1.5. Always use care when handling equipment. Damage to dewars could
         cause loss of vacuum, increased evaporation or leaks.
         43.11.5.1.6. Wear PPE and hold the dewar as far away from the face as possible
         when carrying a dewar. Containers that cannot be easily and safely carried shall be
         placed on a stable wheeled base designed for the dewar.
  43.11.6. Storage of Cryogenic Liquids. Gas from a cryogenic liquid storage unit left open to
  the atmosphere or a catastrophic failure of a storage unit could create an oxygen deficient
  atmosphere. To reduce the likelihood of this occurring, users shall ensure:
      43.11.6.1. Glass dewars have an exterior coating/cover/plastic mesh to minimize
      projectiles if an explosion occurs.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      883



     43.11.6.2. Dewars are stored in well-ventilated rooms with a minimum of six (6) air
     changes per hour. If the ventilation rate is unknown, contact BE to evaluate the storage
     area as the installation of oxygen detection systems and alarms for cryogenic liquid
     storage areas may be required based on location, ventilation and quantity of material
     stored.
     43.11.6.3. Do not store cryogenic liquids with corrosive or flammable chemicals.
     43.11.6.4. Dewars shall be placed so vents and openings are positioned away from
     personnel and lab equipment.
     43.11.6.5. Bulk cryogenic storage and dispensing facilities shall follow the siting process
     in paragraph 43.3.
     43.11.6.6. Bulk cryogenic liquid dispensing areas within buildings must be well
     ventilated. Consult BE for recommended continuous oxygen monitoring equipment. All
     new installations shall be designed with an oxygen monitoring system and alarm.
     43.11.6.7. Cryogenic liquid dewars are not stored in hallways, unventilated closets,
     environmental rooms or stairwells.
  43.11.7. Special Precautions for Liquid Oxygen and Flammable Cryogenic Liquids.
  Flammable cryogenic liquids like methane, hydrogen and carbon monoxide are hazardous.
  While oxygen does not burn, it supports and accelerates combustion rates of other materials
  and may form explosive mixtures with other combustibles. Prior to using flammable
  cryogenics and oxygen:
     43.11.7.1. The supervisor shall contact BE to assess cryogen engineering and work
     practice controls.
     43.11.7.2. All combustible materials are kept away from flammable liquids and oxygen.
     43.11.7.3. ―No Smoking‖ signs are posted, and no sources of ignition are present.
     43.11.7.4. Oxygen dewars and equipment are kept very clean as surface contamination
     can ignite if oxygen leaks from the dewar.
     43.11.7.5. Stationary equipment is properly grounded and mobile equipment is properly
     bonded when dispensing.
     43.11.7.6. Valve operation is performed very slowly to prevent ignition of contaminants
     in the system.
     43.11.7.7. Flammable gas venting is independent from other ventilation systems and a
     nitrogen purge is used when needed.
  43.11.8. Emergency Procedures.
     43.11.8.1. Periodic equipment inspections, removal of ice blockages and replacement of
     damaged or old storage units will reduce the probability of catastrophic failure of storage
     units. Ice blockages that prevent the container from venting properly can cause an
     explosion hazard. Note: Contact the installation FES Flight and BE immediately if ice
     blockages occur.
 884                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       43.11.8.2. If a spill occurs, immediately exit the area and contact the installation FES
       Flight to monitor oxygen levels in the area and determine when it is safe to re-enter.
       43.11.8.3. If experiencing symptoms such as lightheadedness, dizziness or confusion,
       immediately seek fresh air and medical attention.
       43.11.8.4. An unconscious employee in a cryogenic liquid storage area shall only be
       retrieved by personnel using a Self Contained Breathing Apparatus. Once the person is
       removed to fresh air, provide rescue breathing or CPR until paramedics arrive.
       43.11.8.5. If eyes or skin comes in contact with cryogenic liquid or gases, follow first aid
       procedures, then immediately seek medical attention. Refer to paragraph 43.4.3 for
       additional guidance.
           43.11.8.5.1. Immediately remove any contaminated clothing. If clothes are
           contaminated with oxygen, hydrogen or carbon monoxide, remove clothing, evacuate
           personnel from the facility and keep contaminated clothing away from ignition
           sources.
           43.11.8.5.2. Do not apply dry heat or rub damaged flesh or eyes.
           43.11.8.5.3. Seek treatment at the nearest medical treatment facility.
           43.11.8.5.4. Workers shall notify their supervisor of injuries.
43.12. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for LN2 and LOX Operations. The following
(Figure 43.3) is a quick reference guide to PPE that may be required for activities and equipment
in LN2 and LOX operations. It is not all inclusive and the omission of an activity or item of
equipment does not mean that PPE is not required. The supervisor is ultimately responsible for
providing and enforcing the wear of PPE recommended or required by the installation Ground
Safety office or BE. Specific PPE for each work area and worker is determined through
coordination with the supervisor, unit commander, Ground Safety office and BE. BE is the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and installation authority for determining respiratory
protection requirements IAW AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program. The
worker is responsible for the care and proper use of PPE provided. PPE shall be used wherever
inhalation, absorption or physical contact injuries may occur. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal
Protective Equipment (PPE), and TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static
Grounding/Bonding, for more details on PPE, recommended usage, national stock numbers
(NSNs) and other relevant information. PPE listed below shall be worn in conjunction with head
covering, cuff-less trousers, long sleeve shirt, jacket or CMU-3/P coveralls and leather shoes
which fit closely around the top with rubber soles and heels.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   885




Figure 43.3. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) For LN2 And LOX Operations.
        Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) For LN2 And LOX Operations
             Operation                          Minimum Required PPE
Operating LN2 and LOX Generating    Thermal Gloves
Plant                               Eye Protection (goggles)
                                    Face Shield
                                    Ear Protection (Consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                    assessment)
Cleaning LN2 and LOX Generating     Eye Protection (goggles)
Plant                               Face Shield
                                    Chemical Gloves (Consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                    assessment)
                                    Chemical Apron
                                    Respirator (Consult BE‘s OEH risk assessment)
Mixing Chemicals                    Eye Protection (goggles)
                                    Face Shield
                                    Chemical Gloves (Consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                    assessment)
                                    Chemical Apron
Moving Chemicals                    Eye Protection (goggles)
                                    Face Shield
                                    Chemical Gloves (Consult BE‘s OEH risk
                                    assessment)
                                    Chemical Apron
Storage and Transfer of LOX         Head cover
                                    Eye Protection (goggles)
                                    Face Shield
                                    Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder‘s gauntlet
                                    cuff (DLA-A-50022) (NSN 8415-00-268-7860),
                                    medium with gloves, cloth, work, cotton knit
                                    (DLA-A-55213) (NSN 8415-00-964-4760),
                                    medium as an insert; or
                                    Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-
                                    268-7871) with glove inserts, wool (NSN 8415-
                                    00-682-6673) or equivalent
                                    Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108)
                                    Coveralls, cotton white (mandatory) (NSN 8405-
                                    00-037-9274)
                                    Cuff-less trousers
                                    Long sleeve shirt
                                    Jacket (Optional)
                                    Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with
                                    rubber soles and heels
 886                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012



Storage and Transfer of LN2            Head cover
                                       Eye Protection (goggles)
                                       Face Shield (NSN 4240-00-542-2048)
                                       Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder‘s gauntlet
                                       cuff (Federal Specification KKG486, Type II,
                                       NSN 8415-00-268-7860), medium with gloves,
                                       cloth, work, cotton knit (MIL G-1057E),
                                       medium as an insert; or
                                       Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-
                                       268-7871) with glove inserts, wool (NSN 8415-
                                       00-682-6673)
                                       Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108)
                                       Cuff-less trousers
                                       Long sleeve shirt
                                       Jacket, or
                                       Coveralls, cotton white (NSN 8405-00-037-
                                       9274)
                                       Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with
                                       rubber soles and heels
Servicing of Aircraft with LOX         Head cover
(Consult TO 00-25-172)
                                       Eye Protection (goggles)
                                       Face Shield or locally purchased hard hat face
                                       shield combination
                                       Gloves (loose fitting), leather, welder‘s gauntlet
                                       cuff (DLA-A-50022) (NSN 8415-00-268-7860),
                                       medium with gloves, cloth, work, cotton knit
                                       (DLA-A-55213) (NSN 8415-00-964-4760),
                                       medium as an insert; or
                                       Gloves (loose fitting), leather (NSN 8415-00-
                                       268-7871) with glove inserts, wool (NSN 8415-
                                       00-682-6673) or equivalent
                                       Apron (NSN 8415-00-082-6108)

                                       Coveralls, cotton white (mandatory) (NSN 8405-
                                       00-037-9274)
                                       Cuff-less trousers
                                       Long sleeve shirt
                                       Jacket (Optional)
                                       Shoes, which fit closely around the top, with
                                       rubber soles and heels
43.13. Liquid Nitrogen (LN2), Oxygen (LOX) and Cryogens Checklist. This is not an all
inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items
contained within this chapter. Other requirements exist that are not included in the checklist.
Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       887



this checklist to include Command or individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or
situations.
   43.13.1. Are all high-pressure lines secured with brackets, braces or other devices to prevent
   whipping from a failed line? Reference 43.2.4
   43.13.2. Are painting, welding, cutting and brazing, solvent use and any operation producing
   toxic or noxious gases or vapors prohibited during LN2 or LOX production runs? Reference
   43.2.5
   43.13.3. Are cryogenic facilities sited by minimum separation distances or greater as
   prescribed by UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering Facilities and TO 00-25-172,
   Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding? Reference 43.3.1
   43.13.4. Do LN2 and LOX production facilities and storage locations have permanent signs
   posted indicating ―OXYGEN—NO SMOKING—NO OPEN FLAMES‖ or an equivalent
   warning? Reference 43.3.2.2
   43.13.5. Are LOX-compatible joint sealers used where spills are likely to occur in LOX
   handling and storage areas? Reference 43.3.2.4
   43.13.6. Is the area around the LN2 and LOX plant itself made of concrete? Reference
   43.3.2.4
   43.13.7. Is guidance requested from and provided by BE on hazards, precautions, PPE and
   ventilation required for working with solvents and chemicals? Reference 43.4.1
   43.13.8. Is the proper PPE provided and used by workers handling solvents and chemicals?
   Reference 43.5.1
   43.13.9. Are personnel prohibited from using the same PPE for cryogenic operations as used
   for chemical protection? Reference 43.5.1
   43.13.10. Is PPE always worn when an uninsulated cryogenic surface could be touched?
   Reference 43.5.2.2
   43.13.11. Do workers avoid using cryogenics in small unventilated rooms? Reference
   43.5.4.1
   43.13.12. Is access to firefighting equipment in LN2 and LOX facilities clear and
   unobstructed? Reference 43.6.7
   43.13.13. Are preventive measures established and used to ensure LOX does not come in
   contact with organic materials or flammable substances? Reference 43.6.8
   43.13.14. Are floors and drip pans in LOX plants and storage plants maintained in spotless
   condition? Reference 43.8.1
   43.13.15. Are procedures established to verify the correct product is transferred to the
   correct storage tank or cart? Reference 43.9.1
   43.13.16. Are two (2) fully knowledgeable workers within normal voice or eye contact when
   generating or transferring cryogenic fluids? Reference 43.9.2
888                                                         AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  43.13.17. Are cryogenic storage and dispensing facilities sited IAW paragraph 43.3?
  Reference 43.11.6.5.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       889



                                         Chapter 44

                              FOOD SERVICE OPERATIONS

44.1. Specific Hazards.
   44.1.1. Food services operations present a variety of hazards. Floors must be mopped and
   cleaned frequently to promote sanitation and prevent wet floors which may cause slips and
   falls. Spilled grease or other liquids can create dangerous and slippery walking surfaces.
   Improperly lifting and moving heavy boxes and cases can cause sprains and strains. Refer to
   Chapter 2, Human Factors, and 3, Physical Hazards, for additional information on human
   factors and physical hazards.
   44.1.2. Equipment used in kitchens for heating, cutting, mixing or grinding food can create
   hazards. Fats and oils used for cooking are combustible and can scald when hot. Dishwashers
   present electrical shock and hot water scald hazards. Accumulated grease in hoods and vents
   is a fire hazard. Broken glasses and dishes with sharp edges must be handled with care to
   prevent cuts. Deployed, mobile and emergency food service operations present an increased
   danger of fires and burns from gasoline or other fuels.
   44.1.3. Food service personnel can be exposed to several occupational health hazards.
   Supervisors shall request BE to evaluate any suspected workplace health hazards and
   recommend the required PPE for the hazards identified. The more common include:
      44.1.3.1. Drain cleaners. Drain cleaners and strong caustic solutions are often used for
      cleaning reusable filters in range, grill and broiler exhaust hoods. Contact may cause skin
      burns and damage to the eyes. Soaps and detergents can cause skin dermatitis. Soap dust
      may irritate the throat if inhaled. Ovens and charcoal broilers may generate carbon
      monoxide if not properly ventilated.
      44.1.3.2. Microwave ovens. As ovens age, hinges and catches may loosen and leak
      microwave radiation. Spilled food may prevent oven doors from closing properly. If the
      interlock system fails, the oven may not shut off when the door is opened.
      44.1.3.3. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Low-pressure mercury vapor lamps and black-light
      lamps emit low-intensity UV radiation, which is harmful to the skin and eyes.
      44.1.3.4. High heat levels in kitchens. This can cause heat-related illnesses, so workers
      shall be aware of heat disorder symptoms and the need for water. Supervisors shall
      ensure workers drink plenty of water.
44.2. General Requirements.
   44.2.1. Worker Training. Supervisors shall ensure all newly assigned workers are trained
   IAW AFI 91-202. Training shall be provided upon assignment and when there is a change in
   equipment, procedures or processes, or safety, fire prevention or occupational health
   requirements. Supervisors shall develop written outlines for personnel training and shall
   maintain documentation of this training.
   44.2.2. Training shall include:
 890                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       44.2.2.1. Proper lifting techniques.
       44.2.2.2. Safe use of cutlery and food processing machinery, handling of hot foods and
       the danger of falls.
       44.2.2.3. Hazardous Communication training IAW AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication
       Program.
       44.2.2.4. Hazards of mixing cleaners or chemicals.
44.3. Specific Requirements.
   44.3.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). All PPE shall be approved by the installation
   Ground Safety Office and BE. PPE includes respiratory and hearing protective devices;
   special clothing; protective devices for the eyes, face, head and extremities; and boots, apron,
   gloves and respirators. Refer to Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), AFI 48-
   116, Food Safety Program, 29 CFR 1910.136, Occupational Foot Protection, and 29 CFR
   1910.141., Sanitation, for additional guidance and information.
       44.3.1.1. Personnel working in areas where floors may become wet or greasy shall wear
       non-slip/skid shoes. Safety-toe footwear shall be worn where needed to prevent foot or
       toe injuries. Refer to Chapter 14 and 29 CFR 1910.136, Occupational Foot Protection.
       44.3.1.2. Supervisors shall provide protective cold weather clothing for workers who
       frequently enter and exit refrigerators and freezers.
       44.3.1.3. Workers shall avoid skin contact with ammonia solutions by wearing protective
       clothing such as rubber gloves. If skin or eye contact occurs, the affected area shall be
       washed promptly.
       44.3.1.4. Table 44.1 lists minimal PPE requirements for food services operations. This
       list is not all-encompassing. Therefore, these requirements shall be locally evaluated by
       the installation food services manager, Ground Safety office and BE.
   44.3.2. Housekeeping.
       44.3.2.1. All food services areas, to include kitchens, dining rooms, serving lines,
       passageways, storerooms, disposal rooms and break areas, shall be kept clean, orderly
       and in a sanitary condition. Loading areas shall be kept clean, free of grease and orderly
       to prevent congestion. Refer to Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floors and Wall
       Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders, 29 CFR 1910,
       Subpart D, Walking-Working Surfaces, and 1910.141., for additional guidance and
       information.
       44.3.2.2. Dust mops, brooms and wet mops shall be hung vertically on brackets or in
       storage racks with handles up, heads down.
       44.3.2.3. Building or equipment cleaning supplies shall be kept separate from food
       products and kept locked when not in use. Steel wool used for cleaning shall be stored in
       metal self-closing containers. Used steel wool shall be disposed of in appropriate trash
       containers. Only noncombustible sweeping compounds and absorbents shall be used.
       Used sweeping compounds or absorbents shall be stored in a closed metal container.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       891



     44.3.2.4. Clean and dirty rags shall be kept in separate containers with metal lids and
     permanently labeled or stenciled to identify their contents. Lids shall be self-closing or
     provided with a solid tight fitting cover and kept closed on the dirty rag container. Refer
     to 29 CFR 1910.141. for additional guidance.
     44.3.2.5. Storage shall not be permitted under stairways, under floors or above ceiling
     levels of buildings, in corridors or exit passageways or mechanical and boiler rooms
     unless approved by the installation Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight. Materials shall
     not be piled against buildings or in front of doors and exits.
     44.3.2.6. Areas behind freezer/refrigeration units, electrically operated units, water
     heaters or other heat producing devices shall be free of combustible materials. These
     areas shall be dusted/cleaned regularly to prevent dirt and/or dust buildup.
  44.3.3. Dry Storage. Shelves shall be strong enough to support stored items. Store heavy
  items on lower shelves and lighter items above. Bottom shelves must be at least six (6)
  inches off the floor to allow for cleaning. A safe ladder shall be provided to reach items on
  high shelves. Cartons or other combustibles shall be stored at least 18 inches from light bulbs
  and 18 inches from fire suppression sprinkler system heads.
  44.3.4. Pot and Pan Area. Rubber mats or other approved matting shall be used and
  maintained in safe condition. Workers shall ensure the correct amount of detergent and other
  cleansing or sanitizing agents are used to wash pots and pans. A waterproof apron and rubber
  gloves shall be worn by each worker. An adequate drain board or other drying area shall be
  provided to prevent placing pots and pans on the floor before or after washing. Pot and pan
  sinks shall be designed so workers can drain sinks without placing their hands in hot water.
  44.3.5. Walk-in Refrigerators and Freezers. Storage racks shall be in proper working
  condition, free from broken or bent shelves and supported on solid legs. Shelves shall be
  adequately spaced to prevent pinched hands when moving large bulky items for storage.
  When possible, store heavier items on lower shelves, but always store potentially hazardous
  foods below foods that are ready to eat to prevent possible cross contamination.
     44.3.5.1. Workers shall use care when moving portable racks to avoid hand injuries.
     Supervisor shall ensure blower fans are properly guarded and adequate aisle space is
     provided. Proper PPE shall be provided for workers who continuously enter walk-in
     freezers.
     44.3.5.2. A by-pass or other type device shall be installed on the door to permit escape
     from inside if a worker is locked inside. An internally activated alarm bell shall be
     provided and tested weekly. This test shall be documented. If the bell is inoperable, it
     shall be replaced immediately. When a door can be locked from the outside, i.e., with a
     hasp and padlock, a permanent sign stating, ―Determine No One Is Inside Before Locking
     Door,‖ shall be mounted on the door‘s exterior. The letters shall be at least three (3)
     inches high.
  44.3.6. Food Preparation Area.
     44.3.6.1. Microwave ovens shall be considered occupational use and surveyed IAW
     AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program. This is
892                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      required only when repairs have been made to microwave ovens. Microwave ovens shall
      be cleaned whenever spills occur and grease shall not be allowed to accumulate.
      44.3.6.2. All electrical equipment shall be properly grounded. Electrical equipment shall
      be inspected annually for safety defects by an installation CE qualified electrician or
      contract equivalent. Electrical switches shall be located so they can be reached easily in
      an emergency and so employees do not have to touch metal equipment to reach them. All
      equipment shall be in safe operating condition and turned off when not in use.
      Supervisors shall evaluate workers annually on the proper and safe operation of all
      equipment.
         44.3.6.2.1. Movable parts on equipment shall be properly guarded. For example,
         install blade guards on meat-slicers and wire mesh screening over compressor units or
         fans. Refer to Chapter 18, Machinery, for additional guidance. Employees shall use
         machine guards whenever the machine is operated.
         44.3.6.2.2. Workers shall use a pusher when operating meat grinding equipment.
         Fingers or hands shall never be used to feed or clear meat grinders.
      44.3.6.3. Floors shall be adequately maintained and cleaned. Workers shall pick or clean
      up all dropped or spilled items immediately.
      44.3.6.4. Knives and cutting attachments shall be safeguarded and stored in safe
      enclosures when not in use.
      44.3.6.5. Hoods and ducting shall be kept free of grease accumulation. Hood filters over
      grease vapor producing activities (for example, deep fat fryers and grills) shall be washed
      at least daily. Hood-filters in other areas shall be washed at least weekly. Ducting shall be
      cleaned as necessary but at least once every six (6) months. Cleaning of filters and ducts
      shall be documented IAW local procedures. Cooking shall not be permitted under hoods
      without properly installed filters or when the fire extinguishing system is not operating.
      Exhaust hoods shall be vented outside the facility. Refer to NFPA 96, Standard for
      Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations, for
      additional guidance.
      44.3.6.6. Exhaust fans shall be operating when cooking equipment is in operation.
  44.3.7. Serving Area.
      44.3.7.1. Safety valves on equipment shall be functional and tested periodically.
      44.3.7.2. Hot food tables shall be cleaned after each meal. Serving counters and tables
      shall be free of broken parts, splinters or metal slivers and burrs.
      44.3.7.3. Service ware shall be inspected at least semi-annually, and cracked and heavily
      scored items discarded. This inspection shall be documented.
      44.3.7.4. Tray rails shall be designed to prevent trays from falling off while patrons
      move through the serving line.
      44.3.7.5. Floors and/or ramps shall be dry and free of splinters, protruding nails, loose
      boards or unnecessary holes and otherwise in safe condition. Floors shall be mopped as
      necessary, at the end of each meal period, and waxed with nonskid wax as needed.
      Caution signs shall be used when floors are wet to indicate a possible slipping hazard.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      893



     Traffic flow shall be arranged to minimize the danger of customers colliding while
     carrying trays or obtaining food.
  44.3.8. Dining Area.
     44.3.8.1. Food dispensers shall be properly grounded. Pictures shall be securely fastened
     to walls. Drapes, blinds or curtains shall be securely fastened and constructed of fire-
     resistant materials. Chairs shall be free from splinters, metal burrs and broken or loose
     parts. Decorations shall be of a flameproof or noncombustible material.
     44.3.8.2. Floors shall be continually inspected for spillage and other hazardous situations
     and cleaned immediately to prevent slipping hazards. Special attention shall be given to
     the floor adjacent to water, ice cream and milk stations, and salad bars.
     44.3.8.3. If trays with used dishes are placed on conveyor units, the edges shall be
     guarded to keep customers or employees from catching fingers or clothing.
     44.3.8.4. If dishes are removed on portable racks or bus trucks, these units shall be in
     safe operating condition with all wheels or casters working and all shelves firmly
     fastened.
  44.3.9. Dishwashing Area.
     44.3.9.1. Floors shall be free of excessive water buildup and spillage. Supplemental
     flooring shall be properly maintained in safe condition before being used.
     44.3.9.2. All electrical units shall be properly grounded. Switches shall be readily
     accessible and located to permit rapid shutdown in an emergency. Employees shall be
     able to reach switches without touching metal units such as tables and counters.
     44.3.9.3. Employees shall avoid contact with detergents to prevent skin and eye
     irritation.
     44.3.9.4. Supervisors shall instruct employees on the safe collection and disposal of
     broken glass.
     44.3.9.5. The take-off counter dishwashing machine shall be designed to prevent fingers
     or hands from being caught and injured.
     44.3.9.6. Controls located in a passageway shall be recessed or guarded to prevent
     breakage or accidental starting.
     44.3.9.7. Dish racks shall be in safe condition, free of sharp corners that would cause
     cuts, and kept off the floor to prevent tripping.
     44.3.9.8. Dishwashing machines shall have entry and exit curtains or other devices to
     prevent hot water from spraying outside the machine.
  44.3.10. Bakery Area.
     44.3.10.1. The frame and electrical components of electrically powered machines shall
     be grounded, enclosed and/or protected by adequate guards. Rotating parts will be
     smooth. For example, lubrication fittings and parts which are not flush with the rotating
     part shall be recessed. Screw conveyors shall be covered. Dead end screw conveyors
 894                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       shall have an overflow safety gate which operates an electrical limit switch. Sprockets
       and V-belt drives within reach from passageways and platforms or less than seven (7)
       feet from the floor shall be enclosed.
       44.3.10.2. Manually fed dough breaks shall have top roller protection. An emergency
       stop bar shall be provided and located so the operator‘s body will press against it if the
       operator slips and falls toward the rollers or if the operator‘s hand gets caught in the
       rollers. The emergency stop bar shall be checked daily for proper operation.
       44.3.10.3. Molder feeding devices shall be designed so the operator‘s hands cannot be
       placed into in-running rollers. Molders shall be equipped with stopping devices within
       reach of the feeder and another one next to the employee taking the dough away.
       44.3.10.4. All slicers shall be provided with a mechanical device to push the last loaf
       through the slicer.
       44.3.10.5. When doughnut machines are used, separate flues shall be provided to vent
       frying section vapors and heat exchanger combustion products. Portable and fixed
       doughnut fryers shall be installed and used under an approved exhaust hood with an
       installed fire extinguishing system.
       44.3.10.6. Horizontal mixers shall be equipped with safety devices which engage both
       hands of the operator while the agitator is in motion and when the bowl is open more than
       one-fifth its total opening. Vertical mixers shall have devices available for moving bowls
       weighing 60 pounds or more (including contents) into and out of the mixing position.
       44.3.10.7. All dump bins shall be of a suitable height to enable the operator to dump
       flour from bags without undue strain or fatigue. Where the edge of any bin is more than
       24 inches above the floor, a bag rest step shall be provided and used. Openings shall be
       protected by means of bars or grids. If grids are made of mesh, the openings shall not be
       larger than three (3) inches in length or width. A control device for stopping the dump bin
       and blender shall be close to the normal operator location.
44.4. Walking, Working Surfaces, Aisles and Passageways. Chapter 7, Walking Surfaces,
Guarding Floors and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and Portable and Fixed Ladders,
and 29 CFR 1910, Subpart D, Walking-Working Surfaces, provide more information on walking,
working surfaces, aisles and passageways.
   44.4.1. Supervisors will ensure:
       44.4.1.1. Slippery or worn treads and surfaces are replaced or made safe by coating with
       non-slip surface materials.
       44.4.1.2. Loose boards, unsecure treads, protruding nails and torn or worn stair treads are
       repaired or replaced immediately.
       44.4.1.3. Vertical clearance above any stair tread to any overhead obstruction shall be at
       least seven (7) feet measured from the leading edge of the tread. (29 CFR 1910.24, Fixed
       Industrial Stairs).
       44.4.1.4. Outside stairways, entrances, sidewalks, loading docks and ramps are cleared
       of snow and ice and abrasive materials, such as sand or ash, are readily available and
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        895



       used during inclement weather. This includes emergency exits and walks leading from
       them.
       44.4.1.5. Prior to opening for service, all exits are checked for proper operation and exit
       discharges are clear of ice and snow.
   44.4.2. Layout. Proper layout, spacing and arrangement of equipment, tables, passageways,
   aisleways, etc., is essential for orderly operations and to avoid congestion. Consult the
   installation Ground Safety and Environmental Management offices, BE, CE and (FES) Flight
   for assistance with layout. Refer to 29 CFR 1910, Subpart D, for additional guidance and
   information.
   44.4.3. Floor surfaces shall be kept clean and in good condition, and free of water, defects
   and other slippery materials that could endanger workers. Spills shall be immediately cleaned
   or covered with noncombustible absorbent material. Drip pans shall be used wherever the
   possibility of spilling or dripping exists. Yellow caution signs with black letters shall be
   posted to warn patrons and employees of a slipping hazard whenever floors are being cleaned
   or finishing compounds have been applied.
44.5. Electrical. The potential for electrical shock exists in many food services operations.
Chapter 8, Electrical Safety, provides more detailed guidance and information on electrical
requirements.
   44.5.1. Installation/Repair. Only authorized, qualified electricians or appliance repairmen
   shall install, service or repair electrical equipment or wiring. Defective electrical
   equipment/cords shall be removed from service.
   44.5.2. Receptacles. Electrical receptacles and cover plates shall be securely mounted and
   free of cracks. Multiple plug adapters can allow overloading electrical circuits and shall not
   be used. Receptacles shall be located outside wet process areas or protected by a ground fault
   circuit interrupter (GFCI).
   44.5.3. Plugs.
       44.5.3.1. Plugs shall be of dead front construction and shall be inserted fully so no part
       of the prongs is exposed.
       44.5.3.2. Supervisors shall frequently check the third/grounding prong safety feature for
       security, especially on items that are unplugged frequently. The prong shall not be cut off
       nor will an adapter be used to allow a three-prong plug to fit a two-prong receptacle. This
       paragraph does not apply to double-insulated equipment or equipment such as clocks,
       radios, can openers, etc., which are not normally manufactured with a grounding plug.
       44.5.3.3. Plugs, whether molded or clamped, shall be firmly attached to the cord to
       prevent pulling against wire connection points. Clamps shall be nonmetallic.
   44.5.4. Flexible/Extension Cords. Also see NFPA 70, National Electrical Code.
       44.5.4.1. Supervisors shall check cords frequently for signs of fraying, cracking, wear or
       any damage that could be a sign of possible short-circuiting and for proper size/rating for
       equipment it services. Defective cords shall be removed from service.
       44.5.4.2. Cords shall not be:
896                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


         44.5.4.2.1. Hung over nails, rafters or in a manner that constitutes a safety or fire
         hazard.
         44.5.4.2.2. Taped, stapled or fastened to woodwork or walls.
         44.5.4.2.3. Routed through walls, ceilings, floors, doorways, windows or similar
         openings.
         44.5.4.2.4. Attached to building surfaces or concealed in ceilings, walls or floors.
         44.5.4.2.5. Placed under rugs, carpets or other combustible materials.
         44.5.4.2.6. Walked on nor will equipment be allowed to run over them. If cords must
         be placed in travel lanes, they shall be protected by molded housing or bridges.
         44.5.4.2.7. Kinked, stretched or bent excessively. Such practices will damage internal
         wire strands.
         44.5.4.2.8. Used in wet or damp locations.
         44.5.4.2.9. Subjected to current or voltage greater than rated capacity.
         44.5.4.2.10. Daisy chained. Refer to Chapter 8 for additional guidance.
      44.5.4.3. Cords shall be continuous in length without splices. They shall be kept dry and
      free from oil or grease. When possible, equipment power cords shall be suspended from
      overhead in rigid raceways. The plug shall be pulled on rather than the cord to avoid
      damaging connections when disconnecting cords.
      44.5.4.4. A grommet, or other means of clamping approved by the NEC, shall be
      installed where cords pass through equipment housings to prevent abrasion of the cord
      insulation and to prevent pull or strain put on the connecting point.
  44.5.5. Extension cords shall not be used in lieu of permanent or fixed wiring. If used, they
  shall have a single connection. Previously stated rules for cords also apply to extension cords.
  44.5.6. Equipment connected by flexible cords shall be disconnected when not in use for
  extended periods of time or at the end of the work shift. Exception: Commercial coffee urns
  hard plumbed to the water service need not be unplugged at the end of the work day, if they
  are in an occupied/observable space. If the area is unmanned or unoccupied for an extended
  period of time then the unit shall be disconnected from the electrical service.
  44.5.7. Circuit breakers, disconnect switches and fuses shall be readily accessible to
  employees or building management personnel. They shall not be exposed to physical damage
  nor in the vicinity of ignitable material. Circuit breakers, fuse boxes and disconnect switches
  shall be legibly marked to indicate what they control and shall clearly indicate whether they
  are in an open (off) or closed (on) position. Circuit breakers shall not be taped in the ―on‖
  position. Breakers that trip frequently indicate possible electrical problems and shall be
  promptly reported and corrected. Electrical controls shall not be blocked or otherwise
  obstructed. Workers shall not substitute larger fuses or breakers or use bypass wires. Refer to
  NFPA 70 for additional information.
  44.5.8. Guarding of Live Parts. Electrical outlets, switches, junction boxes, etc., shall have
  cover plates securely installed. Cover plates shall be free of cracks or other defects. All
  unused openings (knock-out plugs) in switch housings, junction boxes, etc., shall be securely
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       897



  covered. Rigid conduit shall be securely attached to the box and flexible conduits shall be
  securely clamped where the conduit enters the box to prevent abrasion to the conduit and
  strain on the connecting points.
  44.5.9. Equipment Grounding.
     44.5.9.1. Frames of electrical motors, regardless of voltage, shall be grounded. All
     covers shall be securely fastened. Motor data plates shall be legible and shall not be
     painted over.
     44.5.9.2. Exposed noncurrent-carrying metal parts of fixed equipment that may become
     energized under abnormal conditions shall be grounded.
  44.5.10. The following is a partial list of cord and plug connected food service equipment
  (whether fixed, stationary or portable) that shall be grounded, unless double insulated:
     44.5.10.1. Refrigerators/freezers.
     44.5.10.2. Refrigerated display cases.
     44.5.10.3. Dough breaks.
     44.5.10.4. Dishwashing machines.
     44.5.10.5. Grinders and slicing machines.
     44.5.10.6. Metal serving counters where electrical outlets and switches are attached.
     44.5.10.7. Deep fat fryers.
     44.5.10.8. Portable, hand-held, electric tools.
     44.5.10.9. Mixing machines.
     44.5.10.10. Wet scrubbing/buffing machines.
     44.5.10.11. Water coolers and vending machines with refrigeration units.
     44.5.10.12. Cash registers.
  44.5.11. Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupters (GFCI). These devices safeguard personnel from
  current leakage to ground and are mandatory in: all new food services facilities, facilities
  undergoing modification in areas subject to wash down and in all areas where excessive
  water presents an electrical shock hazard. They shall be used within six (6) feet of sinks,
  basins or other sources of water. Portable GFCIs protect the operator when a non-GFCI
  circuit is used to power floor scrubbers or buffers. GFCIs are not required for appliances such
  as freezers or refrigerators. A GFCI breaker installed in the circuit panel can provide GFCI
  protection for large areas.
  44.5.12. Weatherproof Electrical Systems. These systems shall be installed where lamp
  holders, fixtures or receptacles are used in wet or damp locations, such as perishable storage
  areas, or refrigerated areas, for both storage and food processing. Such fixtures near steam
  equipment shall be of vapor proof construction to prevent electrical shock or short circuits
  caused by moisture. Refer to NFPA 70 for additional information.
 898                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   44.5.13. Undervoltage Protection. Machines which are not adequately safeguarded to protect
   the worker during undervoltage situations shall have an undervoltage protective device
   installed. Undervoltage situations occur when a machine automatically resumes motion after
   a low voltage situation or power interruption and the operator is exposed to hazardous
   moving parts. Shop supervisors, with assistance from the installation Ground Safety office
   and CE, shall identify machines which require this protection and assure that undervoltage
   protection devices are installed. Refer to Chapter 8 for additional guidance.
   44.5.14. Control switches (on and off) shall be accessible to workers at their normal
   operating positions to prevent reaching over moving parts of the machine to activate the
   switch. Control switch stop functions shall be identified by the printed word ―STOP‖ and/or
   the color red. Positive pressure control switches shall not be wedged for continuous
   operation. The motor ―start‖ switch shall be protected against accidental/inadvertent
   operation. Machines, including foot and hand controls, shall be made inoperative before
   performing maintenance, adjustments or cleaning, unless required by TO or manufacturer‘s
   guidance. Refer to Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout and Tagout), for
   lockout and tagout requirements. One or more of the following controls shall be used:
       44.5.14.1. The power cord shall be unplugged (when equipment is connected by plug
       and cord).
       44.5.14.2. The power source, circuit breaker or start switch shall be locked in the off
       position when equipment is wired directly to a power source.
       44.5.14.3. If existing equipment, circuit breakers or power sources cannot be locked in
       the off position, danger signs or tags shall be placed on the disconnecting means warning
       that maintenance is in progress and the disconnecting means shall not be turned on.
       44.5.14.4. When equipment is replaced or new construction or a renovation project is
       planned, include provisions to comply with lockout requirements.
   44.5.15. Illumination. Control of light is important to avoid glare and harsh shadows. Soft
   shadows are usually acceptable, but harsh shadows may obscure hazards or interfere with
   visibility. Supplementary lighting or additional lighting shall be provided in situations where
   general lighting is not sufficient. Required illumination ranges from about 5-foot candles for
   most hallway lighting to 100-foot-candles or more for extremely fine or detailed work.
   Contact the installation CE if illumination levels are in question. Refer to Chapter 25, Civil
   Engineering, paragraph 25.4.3.4, for information on how to obtain a CE lighting survey.
44.6. Machinery and Equipment, Machine Guarding and Power Transmissions.
   44.6.1. Operating Instructions (OIs). Supervisors shall maintain manufacturer‘s manuals for
   all machinery or equipment under their control or develop local OIs, to include: job safety,
   maintenance, lubrication and inspection, and identify operator and maintenance technician
   responsibilities. Refer to Chapter 18, Machinery, 29 CFR 1910.212, General Requirements
   for All Machines, and 29 CFR 1910.263, Bakery Equipment, for additional guidance and
   information on machinery.
   44.6.2. Training. The supervisor, or a designated trainer shall train workers prior to
   operating machinery or equipment. Training shall include proper operation, safety
   precautions, cleaning, hazard recognition and emergency shutdown procedures for each piece
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         899



   of equipment they will operate. Additionally, supervisors shall inform operators of those
   repairs they are authorized to perform and train them in proper maintenance procedures.
   Supervisors shall maintain a current list of all personnel qualified to operate and maintain
   equipment, and periodically evaluate these workers to ensure they are following proper and
   safe operating procedures. Additionally, this training shall be annotated on the workers‘
   training records.
   44.6.3. Safe Operating Practices.
      44.6.3.1. No attempt shall be made to clean any part of a machine until all moving parts
      have come to a complete stop and the power source has been disconnected and marked
      with a warning sign (cord and plug equipment) or the power disconnecting switch turned
      off and locked out. Refer to Chapter 21 for lockout and tagout requirements and
      procedures.
      44.6.3.2. Loose fitting clothing, neckties, rings, bracelets, necklaces or other apparel that
      may become entangled in moving machinery, power transmission apparatus or moving
      parts shall not be worn.
      44.6.3.3. Hair nets or caps shall be worn to keep hair under control and away from
      moving machinery, power transmission apparatus or moving parts. Refer to Chapter 14,
      Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional information.
      44.6.3.4. Machines shall be used within the rated capacity specified by the machine
      manufacturer.
      44.6.3.5. Machines shall be maintained so they are free of excessive or abnormal
      vibration while running.
      44.6.3.6. Machines shall be completely stopped and the power source disconnected
      before attempting to clear jammed work or debris.
      44.6.3.7. Machines shall not be left unattended with the control switch in the ―ON‖
      position. The operator shall remain at the machine until all motion has ceased and any
      Lockout/Tagout actions needed are complete.
      44.6.3.8. The electric equipment shall be unplugged at the outlet or turned off at the
      circuit breaker/disconnecting switch before washing the equipment or the surrounding
      area when water could splash on the equipment. Electrical components shall be protected
      when water or cleaning liquids can enter them.
44.7. Machine Layout.
   44.7.1. Machines subject to movement from vibration, rotation or other reasons shall be
   securely fastened to prevent their movement while operating. Sufficient space for material
   handling and maintenance shall be provided around each machine. The installation Ground
   Safety office and CE shall be contacted for assistance on layout problems.
   44.7.2. Maintenance and Repair:
      44.7.2.1. Supervisors shall ensure all machines are thoroughly inspected at least every 60
      days unless the manufacturer‘s manual, machine use or working environment requires
 900                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       more frequent inspections. The supervisor shall determine the appropriate inspection
       schedule when severe operating conditions require more frequent inspections.
       44.7.2.2. Operators shall inspect machines prior to the start of each shift, following a
       new setup, or when operators change to ensure that components are in good working
       order and guards, interlocks or other protective devices are securely mounted, operating
       properly and in proper adjustment.
       44.7.2.3. Supervisors shall maintain records of inspections and any machine
       maintenance.
   44.7.3. Guarding. Machine guarding shall be provided to protect the operator and other
   employees in the area from hazards created by the point of operation, in-running nip points,
   rotating parts, flying chips and power transmission apparatus. Machines shall not be operated
   unless all guards are in place and operational. Any time guards are removed, the power cord
   shall be disconnected or the disconnecting means turned off, locked out and tagged. Refer to
   Chapter 18 for specific machine guarding requirements.
44.8. Fire Protection and Prevention. (Refer to paragraph 6.2.2 for additional guidance.)
   44.8.1. Supervisors shall provide food services workers fire prevention training, both
   initially and annually thereafter. Refer to Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention, for
   additional guidance. Training shall include, as a minimum:
       44.8.1.1. How to report a fire by phone (FES Flight‘s emergency phone number, unit and
       building identification, nature of the emergency, etc.). Dialing 9-1-1 is the emergency
       phone number on most Air Force installations. When the nature of the emergency is fire,
       the operator will connect you to the FES Flight. For installations without this capability,
       check with the FES Flight for emergency contact numbers in case of a fire emergency.
       44.8.1.2. Location of fire alarms within the work area and how to activate them.
       44.8.1.3. Location of fire extinguishing equipment and how to operate it.
       44.8.1.4. Location of equipment circuit breakers and power disconnects that control their
       work areas.
       44.8.1.5. Location of emergency exits.
       44.8.1.6. Evacuation procedures for patrons and workers, to include assisting the
       physically handicapped.
       44.8.1.7. Procedures for extinguishing a grease fire.
       44.8.1.8. Workers in facilities with kitchen fire suppression systems shall receive
       semiannual training on the system from the installation FES Flight as required by
       Chapter 6. This responsibility may be relegated to the supervisor per agreement with the
       unit commander and FES Flight.
   44.8.2. Unit supervision will coordinate with installation FES Flight on the selection,
   placement and maintaining of fire extinguishing equipment IAW Chapter 6. Fire
   suppression requirements shall be IAW NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers,
   NFPA 17A, Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems, and NFPA 96. Supervisors,
   workers and facility managers shall ensure fire extinguishers:
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        901



      44.8.2.1. Are in their designated locations, charged, tested, sealed and dated.
      44.8.2.2. Have not been tampered with, actuated or discharged, and there are no visible
      physical defects, corrosion or other conditions that could affect their operation.
      44.8.2.3. Are clearly visible, properly identified, labeled for the type of fire they should
      be used on and immediately accessible.
   44.8.3. The following additional fire safety matters affect food services operations:
      44.8.3.1. Automatic timing devices shall not be used to turn on electrical appliances
      unless workers are present in the facility when the appliances are in operation.
      44.8.3.2. Space heaters shall not be used without the approval of the installation energy
      manager. Refer to the installation energy management program. Note: In some units, the
      energy management program is the responsibility of the facility manager.
      44.8.3.3. Doors leading to passageways or providing access to rooms shall not be
      blocked without prior approval of the installation FES Flight. All such doors shall be
      identified by signs with four-inch block letters indicating ―DOOR BLOCKED.‖
      44.8.3.4. At least three feet of clear space shall be maintained around self-closing fire
      doors.
   44.8.4. Fire Hazards.
      44.8.4.1. Improperly maintained motors and air compressors.
      44.8.4.2. Equipment misuse.
      44.8.4.3. Electrical equipment not operating properly, including equipment operating
      when the facility is closed, i.e., freezers and refrigerators.
      44.8.4.4. Cleaning materials treated with chemicals subject to spontaneous combustion
      shall be stored in closed metal containers, separate from other combustible items and
      clearly marked to show contents. Cleaning fluids will be non-combustible and nontoxic.
      Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, and local installation fire regulations shall
      be followed when storing flammables. Workers shall follow label and MSDS guidance
      on cleaning chemicals to prevent mixing of chemicals that may produce toxic gases.
   44.8.5. Exits and Exit Markings. AF 32-series, CE guidance, NFPA 101, The Life Safety
   Code, and 29 CFR 1910.37, Means of Egress, General, provide detailed information on this
   subject. The installation CE shall comply with these publications.
44.9. Receiving/Loading Dock.
   44.9.1. Lifting Techniques. Employees shall be instructed in proper handling techniques for
   the equipment and materials received. Supervisors shall periodically evaluate and advise
   employees on proper lifting techniques. The installation Ground Safety office shall be
   consulted in the planning stages of new facility design to minimize material handling
   hazards.
902                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      44.9.1.1. Position Feet Correctly. Place feet shoulder width apart for balance, with one
      foot to the rear of the object and the other foot slightly ahead of the other and to the side
      of the object.
      44.9.1.2. Crouch close to the load. Bend with buttocks resting on the heels of shoes. Stay
      close to the load to minimize strain on the muscles. Lift with legs and body and keep the
      back straight.
      44.9.1.3. Back Straight. Always keep the back as straight as possible. It may not be
      possible to keep the back in the vertical plane but avoid arching the back. Bend from the
      hips and not from the middle of the back.
      44.9.1.4. Full Palm Grasp. Pick up materials with a full palm grip. Do not attempt to pick
      up weights with a fingertip grip. Ensure the load is free of grease or sharp points which
      could cause injury. Use suitable gloves when necessary.
      44.9.1.5. Kinetic Leg Lift. With the arms, slide the object toward the body to give it
      some motion (kinetic energy). At the same time, lift the object with the legs and bring
      them back to a vertical position. Keep the object close to the body and avoid twisting
      while lifting.
      44.9.1.6. Setting the Object Down. Use the same method as when lifting, but reverse it to
      set an object down. Lower the load by bending the legs and squatting with the back
      straight. Take care when releasing the load to prevent injury to fingers, hands or feet.
  44.9.2. Use gloves and safety shoes.
  44.9.3. Inspect objects for slivers, sharp edges, rough surfaces or slippery surfaces before
  attempting to lift.
  44.9.4. Keep fingers away from pinch and shear points.
  44.9.5. Do not carry a load that obstructs the view of the direction of travel. Make sure the
  path of travel is clear.
  44.9.6. Do not turn at the waist to change direction or to put an object down. Turn the whole
  body and crouch down to lower the object.
  44.9.7. Team-Lifting. Assign additional workers to assist when the load or material is too
  much for one person to handle safely and mechanical equipment is not practical. Use workers
  of approximately the same size and train them in team-lifting. If one worker lifts too soon,
  shifts the load or lowers improperly, either that worker or the worker‘s partner may be
  overloaded and strained. Assign one person to give orders to ensure the necessary
  coordination.
  44.9.8. Tools. Adequate tools shall be available and properly stored for opening crates,
  containers, cartons, etc., (hammer, wire cutter, cardboard carton openers and pliers).
  44.9.9. Eave Spouting. Ensure adequate eave spouting over the receiving and dock areas to
  prevent excessive water build-up or run-off on the loading dock.
  44.9.10. Mechanical Material Handling Equipment. Use this equipment whenever loads are
  too heavy or bulky to be lifted or carried efficiently or safely by hand. Forklifts, hand trucks,
  rollers, conveyors or cranes (when properly used) simplify materials handling and greatly
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         903



   reduce the hazards of handling supplies and equipment. Refer to Chapter 35, Materials
   Handling Equipment, for additional information.
44.10. Trash.
   44.10.1. Trash handling and proper disposal is an integral part of the housekeeping process.
   Combustible waste products shall be removed at the end of each shift or more frequently, if
   necessary. Adequate trash bins, cans, baskets and other appropriate containers shall be
   provided to encourage proper waste disposal. Broken glassware shall not be disposed of, or
   carried in, soft or easily pierced containers. If nonmetallic waste or trash cans are used, they
   shall be approved by the installation FES Flight. Smoking materials shall be disposed of
   separately from trash.
   44.10.2. Empty cartons and packing materials shall be disposed of promptly. Carton banding
   shall be disposed when removed. If cartons are nailed shut, the nails shall be removed and
   disposed of as the carton is opened.
   44.10.3. When possible, outdoor trash receptacles shall be located a minimum of ten (10)
   feet from any building and shall always be kept closed or covered and the area around the
   receptacle kept clean.
   44.10.4. Garbage cans shall be securely covered when not being actually filled or emptied.
   44.10.5. Trash and garbage cans shall be leak-proof and adequate in number and size.
   44.10.6. If the garbage disposal area is adjacent to or part of the general receiving area, the
   supervisor shall ensure floors and/or dock areas are clear of refuse and waste.
   44.10.7. Garbage containers shall be positioned in a proper rack. Heavy garbage containers
   shall be moved on dollies to eliminate as much lifting as possible.
   44.10.8. Garbage cans shall be washed with hot soapy water and sanitized weekly or more
   often if required to control odor or vermin.
   44.10.9. Janitor/utility closets shall not be used as trash collection points.

Table 44.1. Minimum Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for Food Service Operations.
       Minimum Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for Food Service Operations
Operation                          Minimum Recommended PPE
Receiving and Loading Docks        General purpose leather gloves
                                   Safety toe shoes
                                   Non slip rubber overshoes
Dry Storage Area                   General purpose leather gloves
                                   Safety toe shoes
Pot and Pan Area                   Rubber gloves
                                   Rubber apron
                                   Rubber boots or rubber overshoes over safety toe shoes
Walk-in Refrigerator and Freezers  Thermal gloves
                                   Bump caps
 904                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       Minimum Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for Food Service Operations
Operation                          Minimum Recommended PPE
                                   Cold environment insulating clothing, four-piece set
                                   (hood, jacket, trouser and safety shoe.) (This applies
                                   only to those workers who normal duty requires them to
                                   enter and exit these units often.)
Food Preparation                   Hair nets or caps
Meat Boning, Cutting and Slicing   Metal mesh aprons or heavy butyl aprons
                                   Safety toe shoes
                                   Slip resistant shoes
Meat Grinding, Sawing and Pressing Metal mesh aprons or heavy rubber aprons
                                   Safety toe shoes
                                   Slip resistant shoes
                                   Hair nets or caps
Deep Fat Frying                    Thermal gloves (wrist or elbow length)
                                   Thermal apron (optional)
Baking                             Thermal gloves
                                   Thermal apron
Food Service Area
Dining Area                        Rubber gloves (when removing dishes and cutlery)
Dishwashing Area                   Rubber gloves
                                   Rubber aprons
                                   Rubber boots or rubber overshoes over safety toe shoes
                                   Slip resistant shoes
Food and Trash Disposal            General purpose leather gloves
                                   Abrasion resistant apron
44.11. Food Service Operations Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all
checklists in this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other
requirements exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs, local safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or
individual location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
   44.11.1. Are all food service workers trained in proper lifting, safe use of cutlery and food
   processing machinery, handling of hot foods, and the dangers of falls? Reference 44.2.2
   44.11.2. Do supervisors ensure safety-toe footwear is worn where there is a reasonable
   probability of foot or toe injury? Reference 44.3.1.1
   44.11.3. Are cleaning supplies kept separate from food products? Reference 44.3.2.3.
   44.11.4. Are drain plugs designed so pot and pan sinks can be drained without the employee
   having to place their hands in hot water? Reference 44.3.4
   44.11.5. Is a by-pass or other type device installed on doors of walk-in freezers or
   refrigerated spaces to permit escape from inside if an employee is locked in? Reference
   44.3.5.2
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      905



  44.11.6. Are floors mopped as necessary or at the end of each meal period? Reference
  44.3.7.5
  44.11.7. Do supervisors ensure outside stairways, entrances, sidewalks, loading docks and
  ramps are cleared of snow and ice and that abrasive materials are used during inclement
  weather? Reference 44.4.1.4
  44.11.8. Are floor surfaces kept clean and in good condition, free of water, defects and
  slippery materials? Reference 44.4.3
  44.11.9. Are defective electrical equipment/cords taken out of service immediately?
  Reference 44.5.1
  44.11.10. Are all control switches (on and off) accessible to workers at their normal
  operating positions so workers do not reach over moving machine parts to activate the
  switch? Reference 44.5.14
  44.11.11. Do supervisors maintain manufacturer‘s manuals or locally developed guidance
  for all machinery or equipment under their control? Reference 44.6.1
  44.11.12. Does the supervisor or a designated trainer train personnel prior to allowing them
  to operate machinery or equipment? Reference 44.6.2
  44.11.13. Do supervisors ensure all machines are inspected at least every 60 days unless the
  manufacturer‘s manual, use or working environment requires more frequent inspections?
  Reference 44.7.2.1
  44.11.14. Are all machine guards securely in place and operational? Reference 44.7.3
  44.11.15. Does the supervisor provide food services personnel fire prevention training
  initially and annually thereafter? Reference 44.8.1
  44.11.16. Are doors leading to passageways or providing access to rooms blocked only with
  approval of the installation FES Flight? Reference 44.8.3.3
  44.11.17. Does the supervisor instruct employees in proper handling techniques for the
  equipment and materials received? Reference 44.9.1
  44.11.18. Does the supervisor assign additional workers to assist when the load or material is
  too heavy for one person to handle safely and use of mechanical equipment is not practical?
  Reference 44.9.7
  44.11.19. Are garbage cans securely covered when not being filled or emptied? Reference
  44.10.4
  44.11.20. Are garbage cans washed with hot soapy water and sanitized weekly, or more
  often if required to control odor or vermin? Reference 44.10.8
 906                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                          Chapter 45

                                   TRAINING SYSTEMS

45.1. General Information. This chapter provides guidance on fire protection engineering
criteria, fire prevention requirements and housekeeping procedures for the system safety and
operational risk management (ORM) of all training devices in AFI 36-2251, Management of Air
Force Training Systems. Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (HQ AFCESA)
shall determine the fire prevention requirements for trainers not covered in AFI 36-2251.
Questions shall be directed to Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (HQ
AFCESA/CEO), 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319. Note: This chapter
applies to all training systems regardless of the stage of design, development or date of
installation.
   45.1.1. Hazards. Hazards shall be engineered out, isolated, guarded against or a safer
   chemical used whenever possible before considering the use of personal protective
   equipment (PPE). Refer to Chapter 1, Introduction, paragraph 1.5, Chapter 3, Physical
   Hazards, and Chapter 14, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), for additional guidance.
   45.1.2. Human Factors. Functional managers, supervisors and workers shall be aware of
   human factors that can lead to worker error, injury or adverse effects on their operations.
   Refer to Chapter 2, Human Factors, for additional guidance.
   45.1.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Responsibilities. BE personnel perform
   occupational and environmental health (OEH) risk assessments of work processes.
   Supervisors with workplace health hazards questions should contact BE. Refer to paragraph
   2.3, MIL-STD-1686C, ESD Control Program for Protection of Electrical and Electronic
   Parts, Assemblies and Equipment (Excluding Electrically Initiated Explosive Devices), and
   MIL-HDBK-263, Electrostatic Discharge Control Handbook For Protection of Electrical
   and Electronic Parts, Assemblies and Equipment (Excluding Electrically Initiated Explosive
   Devices), for additional guidance.
   45.1.4. Static Electricity Hazards. Static electricity can damage electrostatic discharge (ESD)
   sensitive equipment, including computers and equipment associated with training systems.
   Protective measures, such as grounding, conductive floors and benches, humidity control,
   antistatic packaging of spare components and other controls shall be used as needed to
   prevent static electricity damage. Refer to TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice
   Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance and Test of Electrical Equipment, for additional
   guidance.
   45.1.5. Fire Protection. Personnel who use training systems shall be protected from
   conditions which could cause injury or death. Training systems are valuable, critical to
   mission accomplishment and shall be provided adequate fire protection.
   45.1.6. Fire, Injury and Equipment Damage Hazards. Refer to MIL-STD-1472F, Human
   Engineering, for additional guidance on damage to training systems equipment. Training
   system design and operating procedures shall prevent:
       45.1.6.1. Improper fire prevention practices.
       45.1.6.2. Inadequate fire detection and/or suppression systems.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           907



      45.1.6.3. Inadequately marked or blocked egress routes that prevent escape in a fire or
      emergency.
      45.1.6.4. Contact with energized electrical circuits that results in serious injury or
      electrocution.
      45.1.6.5. Poor housekeeping.
      45.1.6.6. Operator error.
      45.1.6.7. Faulty design.
      45.1.6.8. Lack of training.
45.2. General Requirements.
   45.2.1. Fire Extinguishers. Portable 1A-10B:C (or greater) fire extinguishers shall be located
   IAW Chapter 6, Fire Protection and Prevention, and NFPA 10, Portable Fire
   Extinguishers, in all facility areas such as motion bays, model boards, visual display rooms,
   computer bays, etc. Additional fire extinguishers may be provided in cockpit and/or other
   crew stations. Portable carbon dioxide (CO2) or non-halon gaseous agent (such as FE-36) fire
   extinguishers with a minimum rating of 10B:C may be used in areas primarily devoted to
   delicate and costly electronic equipment.
   45.2.2. First Aid. First aid kits for emergency use shall be provided by the unit and approved
   by base medical services. This item is required for work more than three to four minutes
   from the nearest medical facility. Note: IAW OSHA‘s letter of interpretation for paragraph
   1910.151(b) explains that a first aid kit is required if a medical facility is more than three to
   four minutes away.
   45.2.3. Fire and Emergency Procedures.
      45.2.3.1. The training system operator and/or instructor shall provide a fire safety
      briefing to trainees at the start of each training session. This briefing shall detail signals
      used for emergency conditions in the training system, specific actions required by
      trainees and specific actions required by the instructors/operators.
      45.2.3.2. Prompt action during a fire will protect personnel and minimize damage. The
      first level of protection is to alert the instructors/operators for appropriate action, in many
      cases this simply involves removing power from the problem area. The training system
      and/or facility fire detection system provides a second level of protection and the facility
      fire suppression system the final level of protection.
   45.2.4. Housekeeping. Good housekeeping is an important element of mishap prevention in
   training system facilities. Refer to Chapter 5, Housekeeping, for additional guidance.
      45.2.4.1. Combustible materials shall be disposed of in suitable noncombustible
      containers, conspicuously labeled as to contents and with self-closing lids. These
      containers shall be emptied when full and at least at the end of each working shift.
      Contact the installation Environmental Management office for disposal procedures for
      combustible hazardous waste. Refer to Chapter 22, Flammables and Combustibles, for
      additional guidance.
 908                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


       45.2.4.2. Building floors, especially raised floors, shall be kept smooth, clean and free of
       obstructions and slippery materials.
       45.2.4.3. Floor loading capacities shall be identified and posted IAW Chapter 7,
       Walking Surfaces, Guarding Floor and Wall Openings, Fixed Industrial Stairs, and
       Portable and Fixed Ladders. These capacities shall not be exceeded.
       45.2.4.4. Floors shall not be cleaned with flammable or combustible liquids. Follow the
       manufacturer‘s and MSDS guidelines when using cleaning agents for floors and facilities.
       The installation Environmental Management office, Fire Emergency Services (FES)
       Flight, Ground Safety office and BE shall determine the hazards associated with their use
       and prescribe appropriate controls.
       45.2.4.5. To prevent buildup of trash and foreign objects, sub-floors under raised floors
       shall be cleaned periodically, but not less than once every 60 days. If cleaning history
       shows that a longer period between cleanings is feasible, the Fire Protection Flight may
       allow extending the time between cleanings. Areas under raised floors shall not be used
       for storage. Openings in raised floors, including raised training platforms, for electrical
       cables or other uses shall be protected to preclude collecting debris and to prevent
       tripping. Sub-floors shall be inspected once each operational day to ensure no flooding or
       leaking is present, unless the sub-floor area is provided with an automatic water leakage
       detection system. Note: Any change in facility or room use requires reassessment of the
       cleaning schedule.
       45.2.4.6. Utility trenches shall be kept clean of foreign objects and inspected at least
       every 60 days. If cleaning history shows a longer period between cleanings is feasible,
       the Fire Protection Flight may allow extending the time between cleanings. Note: Any
       change in facility or room use requires reassessment of the cleaning schedule.
       45.2.4.7. Drip pans shall be used to prevent accumulation of hydraulic fluid on floor
       and/or equipment surfaces. Drip pans shall be cleaned whenever there is excessive
       buildup of fluids.
45.3. Facility Requirements.
   45.3.1. Planning. Proper layout, spacing and arrangement of equipment and machinery are
   essential and can best be achieved in the planning stages by considering current and future
   uses of the facility. The installation Ground Safety office, CE, Fire Protection Flight and BE
   shall coordinate on all plans.
   45.3.2. Location. Training systems shall be located in facilities complying with UFC 3-600-
   01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, and ETL 01-18, Fire Protection Engineering
   Criteria – Electronic Equipment Installations. Training systems shall be considered as
   mission support equipment as defined in ETL 01-18. Facility fire protection shall be as
   follows:
       45.3.2.1. Wheeled Vehicle Egress Assistance Trainers (such as the High Mobility
       Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV) Egress Assistance Trainer [HEAT]). These
       trainers shall be protected by an automatic sprinkler system or automatic fire detection
       system installed IAW UFC 3-600-01 when located inside a structure having a roof and
       three or more side walls, including tension membrane/fabric structures.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           909



     45.3.2.2. Aircraft Fuselage Trainers (including aircraft loading/unloading trainers,
     patient transport trainers and other trainers utilizing an aircraft fuselage inside a facility).
     These units shall be completely protected with an automatic sprinkler system installed
     IAW UFC 3-600-01, including both inside and outside the fuselage.
     45.3.2.3. Aircraft Flight Training Devices and Similar High Value Training Devices.
             45.3.2.3.1. The entire facility, including equipment and non-equipment spaces,
             shall be completely protected by an automatic sprinkler system installed IAW
             UFC 3-600-01, and maintained IAW requirements in UFC 3-601-02, Operations
             and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection
             Systems.
         45.3.2.3.2. New and relocated aircraft flight training devices or similar high value
         training devices shall be located in spaces protected by ultra-sensitive smoke
         detection systems IAW ETL 01-18. Existing facilities housing training devices with
         internal fire detection and alarm systems do not require ultra-sensitive systems but
         shall be provided with a standard smoke detection system. Note: An ultra-sensitive
         smoke detection system uses an aspirating air sampling-type smoke detector intended
         for detection of incipient fires, such as smoldering associated with overheating or low
         energy release rate fires.
         45.3.2.3.3. Training system spaces shall be separated from other spaces and/or
         occupancies and operationally distinct adjacent equipment spaces in the facility by a
         minimum of 1-hour fire rated construction, extending from structural floor to
         structural ceiling and/or roof.
         45.3.2.3.4. Raised floor spaces shall be divided in the same manner as the equipment
         spaces above the area they serve.
         45.3.2.3.5. Raised floor spaces shall contain a standard or ultra-sensitive smoke
         detection system in the same manner as the equipment spaces above the area they
         serve.
         45.3.2.3.6. Raised floor systems shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
         45.3.2.3.7. If training system spaces are served by air handling equipment which also
         serves any other part of the facility, including an adjacent training system space,
         automatic smoke and fire dampers shall be provided to shut off the space from the
         remainder of the facility upon any facility fire alarm indication. Activation of the
         facility fire detection system shall shut down the air handling system. An air handling
         system which serves an individual training system does not have to be deactivated for
         facility fire alarm indications for conditions originating outside the training system
         space.
         45.3.2.3.8. Communications and interconnecting cable and wiring in training system
         and raised floor spaces shall comply with NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, Article
         645. Communications and interconnecting cable and wiring in training system spaces
         and other areas of the facility or other facilities shall comply with NFPA 70, Article
         725.
 910                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


   45.3.3. Electrical.
       45.3.3.1. Surge protection shall be provided for all incoming power to the training
       system. New training system facilities shall have surge protection for the entire facility.
       45.3.3.2. All power and distribution circuits shall comply with NFPA 70 and UFC 3-
       520-01, Interior Electrical Systems.
   45.3.4. Drainage. Drainage shall be provided in utility trenches and motion bays.
   45.3.5. Hydraulic Pump Rooms. Hydraulic pump rooms shall be of 1-hour fire rated
   construction, except rooms which contain more than 250 gallons of hydraulic fluid, which
   shall be of 2-hour fire rated construction.
   45.3.6. Emergency Lighting. Emergency lighting shall be provided IAW ETL 99-4, Fire
   Protection Engineering Criteria - Emergency Lighting and Marking of Exits.
45.4. Training Systems Requirements.
   45.4.1. General Flammability Requirements. Only fire resistant and non-hazardous (when
   exposed to fire) materials shall be used in cockpits, seats, shrouds, cable ties, cable coverings
   and auxiliary insulation for heat, electrical, sound, etc. The flame spread rating for these
   materials shall not exceed 75 and smoke development shall not exceed 100 when tested IAW
   American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) E-84, Standard Method of Test of Surface
   Burning Characteristics of Building Materials. Alternately, materials shall be considered
   acceptable that meet one of the following: certification under California State Fire Marshall
   Title 19; listing under Underwriters Laboratories (UL) 94, Standard for Tests for
   Flammability of Plastic Materials for Parts in Devices and Appliances; or successful testing
   under NFPA 701, Standard Methods of Fire Tests for Flame Propagation of Textiles and
   Films, Test Method 1. Materials not meeting one of these requirements may only be used
   when the training device application is identical to the aircraft/wheeled vehicle configuration
   and material.
   45.4.2. General Hydraulic System Features.
       45.4.2.1. Hydraulic pump controls shall be designed to automatically shut down on
       sudden or excessive flow in the hydraulic lines when the fluid level is low or when
       excessive hydraulic fluid temperature is sensed.
       45.4.2.2. Flexible hoses shall be shielded to prevent leaking hydraulic fluid from
       spraying on potential ignition sources, trainees and staff personnel. Braided shielding
       integral to the flexible hoses shall be used whenever the hoses are not located in covered
       trenches.
       45.4.2.3. Upon loss of power or shutdown of the hydraulic pumps, the training device
       shall automatically return to the rest position within 10 seconds.
          45.4.2.3.1. For wheeled vehicle egress assistance trainers, it is permitted to provide a
          manual hand crank feature, or equivalent method, to enable the instructor/operator to
          manually rotate the trainer to a position that allows safe egress by the trainees.
          45.4.2.3.2. For aircraft fuselage trainers, hydraulically operated doors are not
          required to be moveable upon loss of power or shutdown of the hydraulic pumps if
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          911



          exit doors are provided for trainee egress from the trainer. The number of doors and
          locations shall comply with the requirements in NFPA 101, The Life Safety Code.
          45.4.2.3.3. For aircraft flight and similar high value training systems, access ramps
          shall automatically deploy after motion is stopped — even when power is removed.
      45.4.2.4. Hydraulic pump controls shall be designed so operation of the facility fire
      alarm or training system fire alarm system shuts down the pumps. This feature is not
      required for wheeled vehicle egress assistance trainers.
   45.4.3. Emergency Lighting. Emergency lighting shall be provided in all enclosed occupied
   training spaces IAW NFPA 70, Article 700.
45.5. Requirements of Wheeled Vehicle Egress Assistance Trainers.
   45.5.1. Safety Zone. A safety zone shall be provided to keep observers at a safe distance
   when the unit is rotating.
   45.5.2. Head Strike Hazard. Projections inside the unit shall be padded and loose objects
   secured that could present a head strike hazard to trainees during unit rollover. Padding shall
   comply with flammability requirements in paragraph 45.4.1.
   45.5.3. Walkways. Walkways shall be padded where the trainees egress to minimize the
   potential for injury to personnel should a trainee fall from the vehicle doors. Padding shall
   comply with flammability requirements in paragraph 45.4.1.
   45.5.4. Fire Extinguisher. A portable fire extinguisher shall be located within immediate
   vicinity of the instructor/operator.
   45.5.5. Power Failure. A means shall be provided to manually-rotate the unit to a safe
   position for trainee egress in case of loss of power or failure of the powered rotation motor.
   45.5.6. Egress Procedures. Procedures shall be established to provide safe emergency
   occupant egress from the unit, such as when the unit fails to fully rotate to the design rollover
   position.
   45.5.7. Loading and Seating. Approved occupant seating and loading limits shall be posted
   in the immediate vicinity of the unit. Prohibited seating arrangements shall also be posted,
   such as any unbalanced seating arrangements that could prevent manual rotation of the unit
   during an emergency.
   45.5.8. Retractor Mechanisms. Trainee shall not be assigned to any location in the trainer
   (such as the gunner‘s hatch in the roof of a HEAT unit) that requires completion of manual
   actions by the trainee or others to pull/move the trainee to a safe position during a rollover
   operation. Automatic retractor mechanisms (such as gunner‘s restraint retractors) may be
   used only after they have been tested to successfully operate during all possible operational
   modes of the trainer, including failure to fully rotate to the design rollover position.
45.6. Requirements for Aircraft Flight and Similar High Value Training Systems.
   45.6.1. Fire Detection and Alarm Systems.
912                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


      45.6.1.1. New or relocated training systems do not require an internal fire detection and
      alarm system when located in spaces protected by ultra-sensitive smoke detection IAW
      paragraph 45.3.2.3.
      45.6.1.2. Existing training systems in spaces protected by a standard smoke detection
      system shall have an internal fire detection and alarm system. This system shall
      interconnect all detection and annunciation devices with the various training system
      components (cabinets, instructor operator station (IOS), cockpit, motion base, etc.). This
      system shall be either of the dual fixed-temperature type or the ultra-sensitive type.
         45.6.1.2.1. Dual fixed-temperature type fire detectors shall be installed in electrical,
         electronic, hydraulic and computer cabinets. Activation of the first detector, i.e., the
         one calibrated to the lower activating temperature, shall produce a distinctive audible
         signal. Activation of the second detector, i.e., the one calibrated to the higher
         activating temperature, shall activate the facility detection system through the training
         system fire alarm panel and de-energize the simulator and all peripheral equipment.
         45.6.1.2.2. Ultra-sensitive smoke detection systems shall be provided to protect
         electrical, electronic/and computer cabinets. A minimum two-stage warning
         capability shall be provided. The first, more sensitive stage shall produce a distinctive
         audible signal. Activation of the second, less sensitive stage shall activate the facility
         detection system through the training system fire alarm panel and de-energize the
         simulator and all peripheral equipment.
         45.6.1.2.3. If detection equipment is located in an unoccupied area, i.e., computer
         rooms, a means shall be provided to positively alert operators at the IOS. If multiple
         unoccupied computer areas are present, then a means shall be provided to inform the
         IOS which unoccupied area has the activated alarm.
      45.6.1.3. A fire alarm graphic annunciator or display panel, to identify training system
      fire detection systems signals, shall be installed IAW NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and
      Signaling Code. Each detection device shall be identified by light emitting diodes, or
      other readily visible means, in the graphic annunciator or display panel.
      45.6.1.4. The fire detection system shall be powered by a dedicated circuit with backup
      battery power and connected to the facility electrical supply ahead of the training system
      disconnect switch.
      45.6.1.5. The fire detection system shall be capable of operating from both 50 and 60 Hz.
      45.6.1.6. The system fire detection and alarm control panel shall be designed to transmit
      both coded fire and trouble signals to the fire alarm and receiving center or other
      monitoring service (when not located on a DoD installation) IAW NFPA 72. This may be
      through the facility fire alarm transmitter or an independent fire alarm transmitter.
      Contact the installation Fire Protection Flight for fire alarm and receiving equipment
      requirements.
      45.6.1.7. Interface of Facility and Training System Fire Protection Systems.
         45.6.1.7.1. Required functions upon activation of the facility fire alarm system
         (without activation of any suppression system in the facility):
                 45.6.1.7.1.1. Occupants in the training spaces shall be notified of the alarm
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      913



               condition through audible (siren, horn, bell, etc.) and visual (strobe) cues.
               Occupants of the facility (including those in the training spaces) shall exit the
               facility immediately without delay, following the facility‘s preexisting
               emergency evacuation plan.
           45.6.1.7.1.2. For training systems meeting the requirements of paragraphs
           45.3.2.3 and 45.4, the instructor may place the training system in a standby mode,
           system freeze or other appropriate condition prior to evacuation.
           45.6.1.7.1.3. For existing facilities and training systems awaiting upgrade to
           comply with paragraphs 45.3.2.3 and 45.4, the training system power source shall
           shut down. This shutdown may be accompanied by an automatic Emergency
           Power Off (EPO) or by an automatic, rapid, sequenced shutdown. (Also see
           paragraph 45.7)
        45.6.1.7.2. Required functions upon activation of the facility fire suppression system
        (without activation of a suppression system in any training system area):
           45.6.1.7.2.1. Occupants in the training spaces shall be notified of the alarm
           condition through audible (siren, horn, bell, etc.) and visual (strobe) cues.
           Occupants of the facility (including those in the training spaces) shall exit the
           facility immediately without delay, following the facility‘s preexisting emergency
           evacuation plan.
           45.6.1.7.2.2. The training system power source shall shut down. This shutdown
           may be accomplished by an automatic EPO or by an automatic, rapid, sequenced
           shutdown.
        45.6.1.7.3. Required functions upon activation of a training system fire detection
        system only (without activation of any fire suppression system):
           45.6.1.7.3.1. Training staff shall be notified upon activation of the first, less
           sensitive stage of ultra-sensitive smoke detection systems or upon activation of
           the first detector in dual fixed-temperature type systems. For existing facilities
           and training systems awaiting upgrade to comply with paragraphs 45.3.2.3 and
           45.4, the training system power source shall EPO upon activation of the first
           detector. (Also see paragraph 45.7)
           45.6.1.7.3.2. The training system shall automatically EPO upon activation of the
           second, less sensitive stage of ultra-sensitive smoke detection systems or upon
           activation of the second detector in dual fixed-temperature type systems for
           training systems meeting the requirements of paragraphs 45.3.2.3 and 45.4.
        45.6.1.7.4. Required functions upon activation of a training system fire suppression
        system — the training system power source shall automatically EPO.
        45.6.1.7.5. Training staff shall be provided with means to manually EPO whenever
        necessary for the safety of the staff, students or the equipment prior to exiting the
        facility.
        45.6.1.7.6. Following an EPO:
914                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


             45.6.1.7.6.1. The training system fire alarm system shall notify occupants
             throughout the facility of the alarm condition through audible (siren, horn, bell,
             etc.) and visual (strobe) cues.
             45.6.1.7.6.2. All personnel throughout the facility, including those in training
             areas, shall exit the facility immediately without delay, following the facility‘s
             preexisting emergency evacuation plan.
  45.6.2. Fire Stops. All cable trays, utility trenches, etc., that connect to spaces outside
  training system spaces shall have fire stops installed every 25 feet.
  45.6.3. Air Handling Equipment. Training systems served by air handling equipment which
  also serves any other part of the facility, including any adjacent training system space, shall
  have automatic smoke and fire dampers to shut off the space from the remainder of the
  facility on any facility fire alarm indication. Air handling systems dedicated to an individual
  training system need not be deactivated upon facility fire alarm indications unless originating
  within the training system.
  45.6.4. Specifications for Cable and Wiring.
      45.6.4.1. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) coated wire shall not be used in the cockpit areas of
      non-commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware and/or training systems. Plenum rated
      cable and wiring meeting the requirements of NFPA 70, Article 300.22 shall be used.
      Note: PVC coated wire is allowed in the cockpit areas of COTS hardware and/or
      training systems per manufacturer‘s standard or commercial design practices provided the
      cockpit is not enclosed or, if enclosed, that smoke detectors are installed and the system
      design vents any smoke or gases to the exterior of the cockpit.
      45.6.4.2. Communications and interconnecting cable and wiring between components
      within the training system space and raised floor space shall comply with NFPA 70,
      Article 645, and those in the training system space and other areas of the facility or other
      facilities shall comply with NFPA 70, Article 725.
      45.6.4.3. Power and signal cable groups in which heat cannot quickly dissipate shall
      contain a heat sensor wire or other heat sensing device.
      45.6.4.4. Cable and wiring for the training system fire alarm system shall comply with
      NFPA 70, Article 760.
  45.6.5. Power Disconnect Means. A means to disconnect electrical power to the entire
  training system shall be provided at all IOSs and at other key locations on the training
  system.
  45.6.6. Computer and/or Electronic Cabinets.
      45.6.6.1. Self-contained air conditioning systems shall include a product of combustion
      detector capable of sounding an audible alarm and activating the facility detection
      system.
      45.6.6.2. Cabinets near a motion base water fog and/or spray deluge system shall be
      water resistant and/or shielded from water discharge. Cabinets near a motion base wet
      pipe sprinkler system do not require special protection.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      915



     45.6.6.3. The acquiring authority may exempt ―off-the-shelf‖ computer and/or electronic
     devices with internal thermally activated power disconnects from requirements for dual
     fixed-temperature type thermal fire detectors for computer and/or electronic cabinets.
  45.6.7. Instructor Operator Station (IOS).
     45.6.7.1. A means to activate the facility fire detection system shall be provided in easy
     reach of the operators at the IOS. Normally, a standard manual fire alarm station shall be
     provided on the operator‘s console with provision to interconnect to the facility alarm and
     detection system, and to initiate a training system EPO.
     45.6.7.2. Smoke detection devices shall be provided in the IOS when located in an
     enclosed container and/or space not part of the facility. Activation of this system shall
     alert the training system occupants and the operators at the IOS.
     45.6.7.3. A facility alarm annunciator shall be installed when the IOS is located in an
     enclosed container and/or space not part of the facility.
  45.6.8. Cockpit and/or Other Crew Stations.
     45.6.8.1. Single station smoke detection devices shall be provided in cockpits and other
     enclosed crew stations. Battery powered detectors shall not be used.
     45.6.8.2. The cockpit shall be designed to preclude or restrict passage of smoke and
     gases through the cockpit floor or sides.
     45.6.8.3. A means shall be provided to alert cockpit and/or other crew station occupants
     of a positive activation of the local and facility detection systems.
     45.6.8.4. Training station ventilation shall be shut down if the training system fire
     detection is activated.
  45.6.9. Motion Base.
     45.6.9.1. The motion system shall return to the rest position within 10 seconds of
     activation of either the system fire detection system or the facility fire suppression
     system. Access ramps shall automatically deploy after motion is stopped, even when
     power is removed.
     45.6.9.2. Hydraulically powered motion bases will comply with paragraphs 45.4.2 and
     the following:
         45.6.9.2.1. Rate-compensated type thermal fire detection devices shall be provided
         under each motion platform. These rate-compensated type thermal fire detection
         devices are not required when all the following conditions are met: the training
         system is located in a facility fully protected by a wet pipe sprinkler system meeting
         the requirements of paragraph 45.3.2.3.1; flight training devices and associated
         controls are located in spaces protected by ultra-sensitive smoke detection systems as
         defined in ETL 01-18 (also see paragraph 45.3.2.3.2); and the cockpit/crew stations
         located on the motin base fully comply with the cockpit/crew station requirements
         listed in paragraph 45.6.8. Refer to Figure 45.1.
 916                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


          45.6.9.2.2. A wet pipe sprinkler system (sprinkler heads and piping) shall be
          provided as part of each motion base. This motion base sprinkler system is not
          required for training systems when all the following conditions are met: the training
          system is located in a facility fully protected by a wet pipe sprinkler system meeting
          the requirements of paragraph 45.3.2.3.1; flight training devices and associated
          controls are located in spaces protected by ultra-sensitive smoke detection systems as
          defined in ETL 01-18 (also see paragraph 45.3.2.3.2); and the cockpit/crew stations
          located on the motion base fully comply with the cockpit/crew station requirements
          listed in paragraph 45.6.8. Illustrations of the motion base sprinkler system are shown
          in Figure 45.1 through Figure 45.4. The exact position for each sprinkler and number
          of sprinklers shall be defined for each motion base to ensure complete coverage and
          prevent interference with each hydraulic actuator‘s range of motion. The system shall
          deliver a minimum of 0.35 gallons per minute per square foot of area under the
          motion base. Normally, sprinkler piping is interconnected with the facility sprinkler
          system, but a separate system riser with separate flow detection is acceptable.
          45.6.9.2.3. A pre-action sprinkler system is permitted for the motion base in lieu of
          the wet pipe sprinkler system listed in paragraph 45.6.9.2.2 when approved in writing
          by the MAJCOM Fire Protection office. The rate-compensated type thermal fire
          detection devices listed in paragraph 45.6.9.2.1 shall be used to activate the pre-action
          functions of the system. Note: Increased procurement, operational and maintenance
          expenses are associated with the use of pre-action sprinkler systems.

Figure 45.1. Motion Base (Side View).




Figure 45.2. Motion Base (Top View).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          917



Figure 45.3. Sprinkler System Piping (Side View)




Figure 45.4. Sprinkler System Piping (Top View).




45.7. Upgrade of Existing Aircraft Flight and Similar High Value Training
Systems. Existing facilities and training systems may continue in use while awaiting upgrade to
comply with paragraphs 45.3.2.3 and 45.4, if they comply with all the following:
   45.7.1. Facilities. No Category I or II fire safety deficiencies (FSDs) exist.
   45.7.2. Training Systems. It is assumed existing training system deficiencies have been
   upgraded or are programmed to be upgraded to comply with previous (superseded) editions
   of AFOSH standards. Training systems currently identified to be upgraded to previous
   (superseded) editions of AFOSH standards may be upgraded as programmed provided Halon
   1301 or other gaseous agents are not part of the upgrade.
   45.7.3. Maintenance. All installed fire protection features shall be regularly serviced and
   maintained in operational condition.
   45.7.4. Halon. Existing Halon fire suppression systems shall be placed on manual activation
   and automatic discharge mechanisms disabled. Existing Halon fire suppression systems shall
   not be re-serviced following discharge and the training device shall remain operational.
   Training systems developed with Halon fire suppression systems shall transition to current
   standards during any major modification.
45.8. Training Systems Checklist. This is not an all inclusive checklist. It, like all checklists in
this instruction, highlights some critical items contained within this chapter. Other requirements
exist that are not included in the checklist. Where appropriate, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, local
safety staffs and supervisors shall add to this checklist to include Command or individual
location or shop-unique requirements and/or situations.
918                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  45.8.1. Does the fire safety briefing provided to trainees at the start of each training session
  include signals used to indicate an emergency condition and specific actions required by
  trainees, instructors and operators? Reference 45.2.3.1
  45.8.2. Are combustible materials disposed of in suitable non-combustible containers,
  conspicuously labeled as to contents, and with self-closing lids? Reference 45.2.4.1
  45.8.3. Are building floors kept smooth, clean and free of obstructions and slippery
  materials? Reference 45.2.4.2
  45.8.4. Are floor loading capacities identified and posted IAW Chapter 7? Reference
  45.2.4.3
  45.8.5. Are cleaning materials used consistent with manufacturer‘s guidelines? Reference
  45.2.4.4
  45.8.6. Are the installation Environmental Management office, FES Flight, Ground Safety
  office and BE consulted prior to use of cleaning materials? Reference 45.2.4.4
  45.8.7. Are areas under raised floors cleaned periodically, at least once every 60 days?
  Reference 45.2.4.5
  45.8.8. Are sub-floors inspected once per operational day to ensure no flooding or leaking is
  present, if not provided with an automatic water leakage detection system? Reference
  45.2.4.5
  45.8.9. Are utility trenches kept clean of foreign objects and inspected at least once every 60
  days? Reference 45.2.4.6
  45.8.10. Are drip pans used to prevent accumulation of hydraulic fluid on floor and
  equipment surfaces? Reference 45.2.4.7
  45.8.11. Are wheeled vehicle egress assistance trainers provided with a manual hand crank
  or equivalent method to manually rotate the trainer upon loss of power or shutdown of
  hydraulic motors? Reference 45.4.2.3.1
  45.8.12. Are aircraft fuselage trainers provided with an exit door for egress from the trainer
  in addition to any hydraulically operated loading ramps or doors? Reference 45.4.2.3.2
  45.8.13. Is emergency lighting provided in all enclosed, occupied training spaces? Reference
  45.4.3
  45.8.14. Is a safety zone provided around the wheeled vehicle egress assistance trainer?
  Reference 45.5.1
  45.8.15. Are walkways padded around the wheeled vehicle egress assistance trainer
  wherever trainees could fall from vehicle doors? Reference 45.5.3
  45.8.16. Is a portable fire extinguisher located where immediately accessible by the operator
  of the wheeled vehicle egress assistance trainer? Reference 45.5.4
  45.8.17. Are occupant seating and loading limits, including prohibited seating arrangements,
  posted in the immediate vicinity of the wheeled vehicle egress assistance trainer? Reference
  45.5.7
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                     919



  45.8.18. Are training staff provided with a means to Emergency Power Off (EPO) the
  aircraft flight/similar high value training system? Reference 45.6.1.7.5
  45.8.19. Is a means within easy reach for the operator provided to activate the facility fire
  detection system at the IOS for the aircraft flight/similar high value training system?
  Reference 45.6.7.1
  45.8.20. Are smoke detection devices provided in the cockpit and other crew stations for the
  aircraft flight/similar high value training system? Reference 45.6.8.1
  45.8.21. Are cockpit and other crew station occupants alerted when local and facility
  detection systems are actuated for the aircraft flight/similar high value training system?
  Reference 45.6.8.3
 920                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 46

                          PROCESS SAFETY MANAGEMENT (PSM)

46.1. General Information. This chapter applies to all highly hazardous chemical operations,
as outlined in 29 CFR 1910.119., Process Safety Management of Highly Hazardous Chemicals.
It implements 29 CFR 1910.119. requirements to prevent or minimize consequences of
catastrophic releases of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. See website:
http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=
9760. This chapter ensures attention and emphasis are given to OSHA requirements and provides
implementation guidance. It also ensures adequate information is gathered for highly hazardous
chemical operations, that process hazard analyses are performed and an appropriate PSM
program is in place.
46.2. Application.
   46.2.1. The criteria in 29 CFR 1910.119. shall be used in its entirety for program
   implementation and application unless otherwise specified in this chapter. This chapter
   applies to all chemicals listed in 29 CFR 1910.119., Appendix A, List of Highly Hazardous
   Chemicals, Toxics, and Reactives, whether the chemical is in a mixture or a by-product of a
   chemical process and/or reaction. This chapter also applies to explosives and pyrotechnics
   defined and discussed in AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards. In addition, this
   chapter applies to chemicals of equivalent hazard potential used within the Air Force, but not
   identified in 29 CFR 1910.119., Appendix A.
   46.2.2. For purposes of this chapter, similar processes in separate locations and/or
   geographic areas, i.e., geographically separated buildings, shall not be considered a single
   process if the separation distance is sufficient to prohibit interaction and the processes are not
   physically interconnected.
46.3. Responsibilities.
   46.3.1. Installation Ground Safety (SEG). With assistance from the ground safety staff, the
   Chief of Ground Safety shall:
       46.3.1.1. Serve as the focal point for implementing this chapter.
       46.3.1.2. Coordinate installation PSM program and ensure PSM requirements are
       followed.
       46.3.1.3. Assess installation operations and advise AFSEC/SEG (through MAJCOM
       safety channels) of number and type of operations that fall under this chapter.
       46.3.1.4. Lead installation Process Safety Management Program (PSMP) Team, which
       shall include representatives from the installation Ground Safety office, BE, Hazardous
       Material Pharmacy (HMP) Program OPR, CE, Environmental Management office, Fire
       Emergency Services (FES) Flight, Readiness Flights and all highly hazardous chemical
       users as defined in 29 CFR 1910.119.
       46.3.1.5. Ensure copies (or the location source) of OSHA-required PSM documentation
       are maintained for OSHA review for the life of the process.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        921



     46.3.1.6. Ensure each process hazard analysis is updated and revalidated by PSMP Team
     at least every five (5) years, after completion of initial process hazard analysis (PHA), to
     assure process hazard analysis is consistent with current process. Note: Organizations
     with specialized safety staffs may assign above responsibilities to another safety staff
     discipline.
  46.3.2. Installation Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) shall:
     46.3.2.1. Provide technical advice and support to users of the chemicals, as outlined in
     29 CFR 1910.119(d)(1).
     46.3.2.2. Help determine range of possible health effects if controls fail, as outlined in 29
     CFR 1910(e)(3).
     46.3.2.3. Review process hazard analyses for technical accuracy of health effects and
     viability of health control measures.
     46.3.2.4. Provide permanent membership to installation PSMP Team.
  46.3.3. Installation Logistics Representative shall:
     46.3.3.1. As the OPR for the HMP, provide PSMP Team information on chemicals
     present on the installation.
     46.3.3.2. Provide permanent membership to the installation PSMP Team.
  46.3.4. Installation Civil Engineering (CE).
     46.3.4.1. Civil Engineering Environmental (CEV) shall:
         46.3.4.1.1. Provide advice and information on corollary and associated
         environmental requirements, primarily derived from EPA Chemical Accidental
         Release Prevention (CARP) program requirements.
         46.3.4.1.2. Provide permanent membership to the installation PSMP Team.
     46.3.4.2. Fire Emergency Services Flight (CEF) shall:
         46.3.4.2.1. Provide technical advice on fire hazards of chemicals, as outlined in 29
         CFR 1910.119(d)(1).
         46.3.4.2.2. Assist with determining range of possible fire effects if controls fail, as
         outlined in 29 CFR 1910.119(e)(3).
         46.3.4.2.3. Review PHAs to determine technical accuracy of fire effects and
         technical viability of recommendations for fire control measures.
     46.3.4.3. Readiness Flight (CEX) shall:
         46.3.4.3.1. Ensure the emergency action plan for processes covered by this chapter
         meet the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.119(n).
         46.3.4.3.2. Provide technical advice on emergency response, containment and
         cleanup to the PHA team.
         46.3.4.3.3. Review PHAs to determine technical accuracy of emergency response
         plans and to include these considerations in emergency action plans.
922                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


  46.3.5. Users of Highly Hazardous Chemicals shall:
      46.3.5.1. Follow criteria of 29 CFR 1910.119.
      46.3.5.2. Identify any chemicals thought to be hazardous but are not listed in 29
      CFR1910.119, Appendix A, to the PSMP team to determine if they should be considered
      under the PSM program.
      46.3.5.3. Review written worker participation plan developed by PSMP team.
      46.3.5.4. Obtain process safety information as outlined in 29 CFR 1910.119(d).
      46.3.5.5. Develop and implement written operating procedures that provide clear
      instructions for safely conducting activities involved in each covered process consistent
      with the process safety information.
      46.3.5.6. Review operating procedures as often as necessary to assure they reflect current
      operating practice, including changes in process chemicals, technology and equipment,
      and changes to facilities. The user shall certify to the PSMP Team annually that these
      operating procedures are current and accurate.
      46.3.5.7. Update each PHA at least every five (5) years, after completion of initial PHA,
      to assure PHA is consistent with current process. Provide copy to PSMP Team for
      revalidation. Note 1: Provisions of hazard analyses must be brought to the attention of
      and followed by equipment maintainers performing any required maintenance, repair or
      replacement of equipment used for processes falling under this chapter. Workers shall
      also be advised of and follow guidance in 29 CFR 1910.119(j). Note 2: Supervisors of
      user organizations shall ensure that requirements for specific job tasks, as outlined in 29
      CFR 1910.119(g), are conducted and documented for initial and refresher job task
      training. Note 3: Training required by this chapter is normal job skills training and/or
      operator equipment training, but does include PSM knowledge training.
  46.3.6. The Installation Process Safety Management (PSMP) team consists of members
  from installation Ground Safety office, BE, HMP Program OPR, Environmental
  Management office, FES Flight, Readiness Flights and all highly hazardous chemical users,
  as defined in 29 CFR 1910.119. This team shall:
      46.3.6.1. Develop and coordinate installation plan for worker participation.
      46.3.6.2. Meet as necessary to ensure specific requirements of 29 CFR 1910.119. are
      met.
      46.3.6.3. Track the status of discrepancies found during audits and report progress to the
      installation ESOH Council at least every 12 months.
      46.3.6.4. Participate in pre-startup safety review with the process operator. Refer to 29
      CFR 1910.119(i) for additional guidance.
      46.3.6.5. Assess whether or not any chemical identified by user as possibly hazardous
      should be included in PSM program.
      46.3.6.6. Conduct compliance audits each year using checklist in OSHA Compliance
      Program Letter 2-2.45, Appendix A, PSM Audit Guidelines. Audits may be done by a
      single member or members of the PSMP Team. Note 1: The PSMP team is not
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         923



      necessarily the same team that performs process PHA in 29 CFR 1910.119(e). PHAs may
      be performed by internal staff members, by contractor or a combination of both. Note 2:
      The PSMP team leadership organization may be any one of the permanent members, at
      the discretion of the Installation and/or Wing Commander.
46.4. Associated and Corollary Guidance Documents.
   46.4.1. Where practical, hazard analyses required by AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency
   Management Program, Planning and Operations, shall be combined with those required by
   PSM, and any industrial process analyses conducted under Section 313 of Emergency
   Planning and Community Right-To-Know-Act (EPCRA).
   46.4.2. Some PSM program requirements are addressed directly or indirectly by existing Air
   Force publications. Thus, a review of other AF guidance may reveal some PSM requirements
   have been partially or fully completed. In that case, centralization of completed tasks into one
   reference source (project document) shall satisfy the requirements. Note: The PSM standard
   and EPA Chemical Accidental Release Prevention (CARP) program have some similar
   process requirements. The CARP program is outlined in 40 CFR, Part 68, Chemical Accident
   Prevention Provisions.




                                             GREGORY A. FEEST
                                             Major General, USAF
                                             Chief of Safety
 924                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan, 1 October 1986
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request, 11 March 2003
AF Form 171, Request for Driver’s Training and Addition to U.S. Government Drivers License,
15 March 2011
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, 1 January 1991
AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report, 25 October 2007
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency, 1 February 1985
AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, 1 October 1996
AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief, 1 October 1986
AF Form 979, Danger Tag, 1 July 1990
AF Form 980, Caution Tag, 1 July 1990
AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag, 1 February 1981
AF Form 982, Danger Tag: Do Not Start, 1 July 1990
AF Form 983, Danger – Equipment Lockout
AF Form 1024, Confined Spaces Entry Permit
AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, 1 April 1985
AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard, 1 January 1982
AF Form 1313, Driver Record, 1 May 1985
AF Form 1492, Warning Tag, 1 October 1991
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report, 1 April 2010
AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, 5 August 2011
AFH 32-1084, Facilities Requirements, 1 September 1996
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program, Planning and Operations, 24
January 2007
AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training, 22 November 2010
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, 28 October 2011
AFI 13-213, Airfield Driving, 1 June 2011
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-202V1, Missile Maintenance Management, 4 November 2009
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   925



AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, 24 June 2009
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFI 32-1042, Standards for Marking Airfields, 27 October 2005
AFI 32-1043, Managing, Operating, and Maintaining Aircraft Arresting Systems, 4 April 2003
AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, 25 May 2006
AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, 1 October 1998
AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention Program, 8 October 2007
AFI 32-1067, Water Systems, 25 March 1994
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 32-6002, Family Housing Planning, Programming, Design, and Construction, 15 January
2008
AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management, 27 August 2007
AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance, 20 December 2003
AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, 15 April 2009
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program, 12 May 1994
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004
AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 5 June 2009
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, 16 March 2011
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, 15 September 2011
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 21 September 2011
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 20 March 2005
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 October 2011
AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual (JSM) for Storage and Materials Handling, 12 April
1994
AFJMAN 23-227(IP), Storage and Handling of Liquefied and Gaseous Compressed Gases and
Their Full and Empty Cylinders, 16 June 2000
AFMAN 23-110, AF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
 926                                                             AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


AFMAN 24-306(IP), Manual for the Wheeled Operator, 1 July 2009
AFMAN 32-1094, Criteria for Air Force Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory Design
and Construction, 1 November 1998
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, 4 October 2011
AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment, 28 March 2007
AFMAN 48-154, Occupational and Environmental Health Site Assessment, 28 March 2007
AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Controls, 1 October 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, 1 August 1997
AFOSH Standard 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program, 30 June 2006
AFOSH Standard 48-22, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories, 1
March 1994
AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, 10 February 2005
AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 December 1999
AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury, 18 November 2002
AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, 14 December
2000
AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety, 14 February 1994
AFPAM 91-216, USAF Safety Deployment and Contingency Pamphlet, 9 August 2001
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical Data, 17 June 2002
AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record, 13 January 2011
AFTO Form 350, Repairable Item Tag, 1 January 1993
AFVA 11-240, Airport Signs and Markings
AFVA 13-221, Control Tower Light Signals
AFVA 48-101, CAUTION—HAZARDOUS NOISE AREA—MAY CAUSE HEARING LOSS—
HEARING PROTECTION REQUIRED
AFVA 48-103, CAUTION—HEARING PROTECTION MUST BE WORN WHEN THIS
EQUIPMENT IS IN OPERATION LABEL
AFVA 48-104, CAUTION—HEARING PROTECTION MUST BE WORN WHEN THIS
EQUIPMENT IS IN OPERATION LABEL
AFVA 48-150, CAUTION—HEARING PROTECTION MUST BE WORN WHEN THIS
EQUIPMENT IS IN OPERATION
AFVA 91-303, DANGER—DO NOT ENERGIZE—PERSON WORKING ON ANTENNA
AFVA 91-304, DANGER—DO NOT ENERGIZE—WORK IN PROGRESS ON EQUIPMENT
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      927



AFVA 91-305, DANGER—INTERLOCKS DISABLED
AFVA 91-306, DANGER—HIGH VOLTAGE
DD Form 1577-2, Unserviceable (Reparable) Tag Materiel
DoD 4145.19-R-1, Storage and Materials Handling, 15 September 1979
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SCH) Program, 19 August 1998
ETL 01-18, Fire Protection Engineering Criteria – Electronic Equipment Installations, 24
October 2001
ETL 07-3, Jet Engine Thrust Standoff Requirements for Airfield Asphalt Edge Pavements, 14
February 2007
ETL 96-5, Hangar Concrete Floor Reflective Coating Criteria, 26 August 1996
ETL 99-4, Fire Protection Engineering Criteria - Emergency Lighting and Marking of Exits, 9
November 1999
Master Nuclear Certification List https://www.mil.nwd.kirtland.af.mil.mncl
(MNCL) MIL-DTL-15562G, Matting or Sheet, Floor Covering Insulating for High Voltage
Application
MIL-STD-101B, Color Code for Pipeline for Compressed Gas Cylinders, 3 December 1970
MIL-STD-161, Identification Methods for Bulk Petroleum Products Systems Including
Hydrocarbon Missile Fuels, 25 August 2005
MIL-STD-882D, Standard Practice for System Safety Program Requirements, 10 February 2000
MIL-STD-1472F, Design Criteria Standard Human Engineering, 23 August 1999
MIL-STD-3007F, Standard Practice for Unified Facilities Criteria and Unified Facilities Guide
Specifications, 13 December 2006
Standard Form (SF) 182, Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training, December
2006
TO 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program, 30 September 2011
TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, 10 February 2010
TO 00-25-223, Integrated Pressure Systems and Components (Portable and Installed), 1 June
1991
TO 00-25-232 Control and Use of Insulating Matting for High-Voltage Application, 28 February
1997
TO 00-25-234 General Shop Practice Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance and Test of
Electrical Equipment, 1 August 1988
TO 00-25-245 Operations Instruction - Testing and Inspection Procedures for Personnel Safety
and Rescue Equipment, 1 September 2006
 928                                                               AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


TO 00-25-252, Intermediate Maintenance and Depot Level Maintenance Instructions –
Aeronautical Equipment Welding, 1 September 2009
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 October 2009
TO 00-85-20, Engine Shipping Instructions, 15 October 2003
TO 00-105E-9, Aerospace Emergency Rescue and Mishap Response Information (Emergency
Services), 1 February 2006
TO 00-110N-3, Requisition, Handling, Storage and Identification of Radioactive Material
TO 1-1-3, Inspection and Repair of Aircraft Integral Tanks and Fuel Cells, 22 December 2009
TO 1-1-688, Use of Electronic Equipment in Hazardous Areas
TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention and Control, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace
Equipment, 2 November 2009
TO 4T-1-3, Inspection, Maintenance Instruction – Storage and Disposition of Aircraft Tires and
Inner Tubes
TO 11A-1-33, Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft
TO 14P3-1-131, OPN and Maintenance Instruction with IPB – Aircrew Chem-Defense Ensemble
TO 14P3-1-141, Operation and Maintenance Instruction
TO 15X-1-102, General Care, and Cleaning of Oxygen Gauges and Oxygen Device Related Test
Equipment
TO 32-1-2, Use of Hand Tools (International Business Machines)
TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, 1 December 2004
TO 33-1-32, General Instruction Input Power Wiring of Electrical/Electronic Support
Equipment
TO 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods, Basic Theory
TO 33D2-10-34-1, Cosmodyne Cryogenics Gas Sample
TO 33D2-10-60-1, Operation and Maintenance Instruction with IPB –Cryogenic Sampler Model
#FCS200l
TO 33K6-4-3483-1, Calibration Procedure – Gas Monitor PGM – 50 (RAE Systems)
TO 34-1-3, Inspection and Maintenance of Machinery and Shop Equipment, 11 September 2006
TO 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention and Control, Cleaning, Painting, and Marking of USAF
Support Equipment (SE), 1 September 2006
TO 35A2-1-1, General Inspection Procedures and Overhaul Instructions – For Hydraulic Jacks
TO 35E8-2-4-1, Operation and Maintenance Instruction Arresting Gear, ACFT Mod Bak-
9/F48A
TO 35E8-2-5-1, Operation and Maintenance Aircraft Arresting System Mod BAK-12/E32A
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                   929



TO 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, 20 July
2007
TO 36C-1-4, Dielectric Testing of Insulated Aerial Manlift Devices
TO 36C-1-5, Sixty Rules on Safety—Operators of Power Cranes and Excavators,1970
TO 36Gl-2-9-1, Oxygen/Nitrogen Generating Plant, Model J665
TO 36Gl-2-9-11, Operation and Service Instruction—Oxygen, Nitrogen Generating Plant, Type
I-A/E26A-8, II-A/E26A-20, Model D LON-150(M)
TO 36G1-2-9-21, Operation and Service Instruction—Oxygen and Nitrogen Generating and
Charging Plant, 1.5 Ton Per Day, Type A/E 26A-8Model J79122 1.5 TD
TO 36Gl-2-11-1, Operation and Service Instruction—Oxygen and Nitrogen Generating and
Charging Plant, 5 Ton Per Day, Model J79123, 5 TD
TO 36G1-3-8-1, Operation and Service Instruction—Generating Plant, Oxygen and Nitrogen,
Model DLON-500(M), -500(M)-2
TO 36M-1-141, Operator and Operation Instruction—Material Handling Equipment System
Components of 463L
TO 36M2-3-35-11S, Operation and Operator Maintenance Instructions, Truck, Aircraft Cargo
Loading/Unloading 60,000 Pound Capacity
TO 36M2-3-45-1, Halvorsen 25K Aircraft Cargo Loaders
TO 36Y31-1-1, Removal of Rust and Sediment from Fuel and Oil Servicing Truck and Trailer
Tanks and Application of Coating, Interior, Fuel and Water Resistant
TO 36Y32-2-2-1, Instruction and PB—Tire Safety Guard, PN 64E33077
TO 37A-1-101, Operation and Service—General Instructions, USAF Fuel, Water, and Lubricant
Dispensing Equipment
TO 37C2-8-17-1, Operation, Service and Repair Instruction—2000 Gallon Liquid Argon,
Nitrogen, Oxygen Storage and Transfer Tank, Model TMU-7A/E, P/N 16291, FSN 3644-915-
1443YD
TO 37C2-8-20-1, Operation, Service and Repair Instruction—5000 Gallon Liquid Oxygen
Storage and Transfer Tank, PN 16290, FSN 3655-915-5287YD
TO 37C11-1-1, Maintenance Instructions—Cleaning of Pressure Gauges Used on Liquid
Oxygen Systems
TO 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air
TO 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders (Storage Type) Use, Handling, and Maintenance
TO 42B6-1-1, Quality Control of Aviator’s Breathing Oxygen
TO 42B7-3-1-1, Quality Control of Nitrogen
TO 42C-1-2, Anti-icing, Deicing and Defrosting of Parked Aircraft
TO 42C-1-18, Control, Decontamination, and Disposal of Mercury
 930                                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, 6 February 2003
UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, 17 November 2008
UFC 3-410-04H, Industrial Ventilation
UFC 3-460-03, O&M: Maintenance of Petroleum Systems, 21 January 2003
UFC 3-520-01, Interior Electrical Systems, 3 February 2010
UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, O & M, 6 December 2006
UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 26 September 2006
UFC 3-601-02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire
Protection Systems, 8 September 2010
2008 ERG, Emergency Response Guidebook (http://hazmat.dot.gov/pubs/erg/gydebook.htm)
Department of Transportation, Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD),
(http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/kno_2009.htm), December 2009
American Society of Mechanical     Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 2010
Engineers (ASME)
ANSI A14.1, Ladders – Wood Safety Requirements, 20 August 2007
ANSI A14.3, Ladders – Fixed – Safety Requirements, 31 October 2008
ANSI A14.4, Safety Requirements for Job-Made Wooden Ladders, 10 March 2009
ANSI/ASHRAE 62.1, Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality, 2010
ANSI A92.2, Vehicle-Mounted Elevating and Rotating Aerial Devices, 1 September 2009
ANSI/ASSE A1264.2, Standard for the Provision of Slip Resistance on Walking/Working
Surface, 9 February 2006
ANSI B71.1 Outdoor Power Equipment – Walk-Behind Mowers and Ride-On Machines with
Mowers – Safety Specifications, 1 January 2003
ASME B20.1, Safety Standards for Conveyors and Related Equipment, 16 March 2009
ANSI/ASME B30.2, Overhead and Gantry Cranes (Top Running Bridge, Single or Multiple
Girder, Top Running Trolley Hoist), 29 July 2011
ANSI/ASME B30.5, Mobile and Locomotive Cranes, 17 January 2012
ANSIASME B30.7, Winches, 5 August 2011
ANSI/ASME B30.9, Slings, 18 January 2011
ANSI/ASME B30.10, Hooks, 8 January 2009
ANSI/ASME B30.11 , Monorails and Underhung Cranes, 16 April 2010
ANSI Z87.1, Occupational and Educational Personal Eye and Face Protection Devices, 13
April 2010
ANSI Z89.1, Personal Protection – Protective Headwear for Industrial Workers, 26 January
2009
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      931



ANSI Z358.1, Emergency Eyewash and Shower Equipment, 14 September 2009
ANSI Z359.1, Safety Requirements for Personal Fall Arrest Systems, Subsystems, and
Components, 31 May 2007
ANSI Z535.1, Safety Colors, 31 January 2007
ANSI Z535.2, Environmental and Facility Safety Signs, 15 September 2011
ANSI Z535.3, Criteria for Safety Symbols, 15 September 2011
ANSI Z535.4, Product Safety Signs and Labels, Includes Errata
ASTM D178-81, Specification for Rubber Insulating Matting
ASTM D1051-81, Specification for Rubber Insulating Sleeves
ASTM F 496-85, Specification for In-service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves
ASTM F2412, Standard Test Methods for Foot Protection, 1 July 2011
ASTM F2413, Standard Specification for Performance Requirements for Protective (Safety) Toe
Cap Footwear, 1 July 2011
CGA, Compressed Gas Association
CMAA 70, Specification for Top Running Bridge and Gantry Type Multiple Girder Electric
Overhead Traveling Cranes, 2010
CMAA 74, Specification for Top Running and Under Running Single Girder Electric Overhead
Cranes Utilizing Under Running Trolley Hoists
NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 5 December 2009
NFPA 12, Standard on Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems, 3 January 2011
NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 26 August 2009
NFPA 17, Standard for Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems, 5 September 2008
NFPA 17A, Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems, 5 September 2008
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, 20 June 2011
NFPA 30A, Code for Motor Fuel Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages, 20 June 2011
NFPA 33, Standard for Spray Application Using Flammable or Combustible Materials, 21 June
2010
NFPA 34, Standard for Dipping and Coating Processes Using Flammable or Combustible
Liquids, 21 June 2010
NFPA 45, Standard for Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals, 25 August 2010
NFPA 51B, Standard for Fire Prevention During Welding, Cutting and Other Hot Work, 5
September 2008
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, including Article 250, Grounding, Article 480, Storage
Batteries, and Chapter 5, Special Occupancies, which includes: Article 500, Hazardous
 932                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


(Classified) Locations; Article 501, Class I Locations; Article 504, Intrinsically Safe Systems;
Article 513, Aircraft Hangar, and Article 503-14, Storage –Battery Charging Equipment, 2011
NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace, 31 August 2011
NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code, 26 August 2009
NFPA 80 , Standard for Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives, 26 August 2009
NFPA 86, Standard for Ovens and Furnaces, 25 August 2010
NFPA 91, Standard for Exhaust Systems for Air Conveying of Vapors, Gases, Mists, and
Noncombustible Particulate Solids, 5 December 2009
NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of      Commercial Cooking
Operations, 25 August 2010
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 31 August 2011
NFPA 241, Standard For Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations, 29
December 2008
NFPA 251, Standard Methods of Tests of Fire Resistance of Building Construction and
Materials, 18 August 2005
NFPA 407, Standard for Aircraft Fuel Servicing, 20 June 2011
NFPA 409, Standard on Aircraft Hangars, 22 July 2010
NFPA 410, Standard on Aircraft Maintenance, 5 December 2009
NFPA 497, Recommended Practice for the Classification of Flammable Liquids, Gases, or
Vapors and of Hazardous (Classified) Locations for Electrical Installations in Chemical Process
Areas, 2 January 2012
NFPA 505, Fire Safety Standard for Powered Industrial Trucks Including Type Designations,
Areas of Use, Conversions, Maintenance, and Operations, 22 July 2010
NFPA 1901, Standard for Automotive Fire Apparatus, 18 July 2008
NFPA 1931, Standard for Manufacturer’s Design of Fire Department Ground Ladders, 5
December 2009
NFPA 1932, Standard on Use, Maintenance and Service Testing of In-Service Fire Department
Ground Ladders, 5 December 2009
NFPA 5000, Building Construction and Safety Code, 31 August 2011
National Institute for Occupational   Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances (RTECS)
Safety and Health (NIOSH)
NMAB 353-5, Classification of Gases, Liquids, and Volatile Solids Relative to Explosion-Proof
Electrical Equipment
National Safety Council (NSC), Accident Prevention Manual
National Safety Council (NSC), Accident Prevention Manual, Administration and Programs
NSC, Accident Prevention Manual, Engineering and Technology
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                 933



NSC, Supervisors’ Safety Manual
OSHA, http://www.osha.gov/
29 CFR 1910 (General Industry)
29 CFR 1926 (Construction)
49 CFR (Transportation)
OSHA 3067, Concepts and Techniques of Machine Safeguarding
OSHA 3086, Servicing Single-Piece and Multi-Piece Rim Wheels
OSHA 3092, Working Safely with Video Display Terminals
OSHA 3127, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens
OSHA 3128, Bloodborne Pathogens and Acute Care Facilities
OSHA 3129, Controlling Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens in Dentistry
OSHA 3130, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens: Precautions for Emergency
Responders
OSHA 3131, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens and Long-Term Care Workers
OSHA Technical Manual Section III, Polymer Matrix Materials: Advanced Composites
(http://www.osha.gov/dts/osta/otm/otm_iii/otm_iii_1.html) Society of Automotive Engineers,
Recommended Practices, Crane Load Stability Test Code (SAE) J765
SAE Standard J4C, Motor Vehicle Seat Belt Assemblies
US Army Corps of Engineers Manual [EM] 385-1, Safety and Health Requirements Manual

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAAHC—Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
AC—Alternating Current
ACO—Administrative Contracting Office or Officer
AED—Automated External Defibrillator
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFCI—Arc-fault Circuit Interrupters
AFHCP—Air Force Hazard Communication Program
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
 934                                                          AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AFVA—Air Force Visual Aid
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
ANG—Air National Guard
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
ASHRAE—American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers
ASME—American Society of Mechanical Engineers
ASTM—American Society for Testing Materials
ATPV—Arc Thermal Performance Value
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BTU—British Thermal Unit
BX—Base Exchange
C—Celsius
CBT—Computer-based Training
CE—Civil Engineering
CEF—Civil Engineering Fire Protection
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CGA—Compressed Gas Association
cm—Centimeter
COF—Coefficient of Friction
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
CRT—Cathode Ray Tube
CO2—Carbon Dioxide
CSPT—Confined Spaces Program Team
dB—Decibels
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                   935



DBMS—Director of Medical Service
DC—Direct Current
DoD—Department of Defense
DOT—Department of Transportation
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EAID—Equipment Authorized Inventory Data
EH—Electrical Hazard
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EPO—Emergency Power Off
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council
ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment
Program
ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
F— Fahrenheit
FC—Fiber Core
FES—Fire Emergency Services
FHA—Flash Hazard Analysis
FMRC—Factory Mutual Research Corporation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
FSC—Fuels Service Center
GFCI—Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter
GSA—General Services Administration
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
HEAT—HMMWV Egress Assistance Trainer
HMMWV—High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle
HQ—Headquarters
HSV—Hydrant Servicing Vehicle
HVAC—Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
IDLH—Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health
IOS—Instructor Operator Station
 936                                              AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


IPS—Improved Plow Steel
ITM—Inspection, Test and Maintenance
IWRC—Independent Wire Rope Core
JSA—Job Safety Analysis
JSM—Joint Service Manual
kV—Kilovolt
kW—Kilowatt
LEL—Lower Explosive Limits
LFL—Lower Flammable Limit
LN2—Liquid Nitrogen
LOTO—Lockout/Tagout
LOX—Liquid Oxygen
LP—Liquefied Petroleum
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAQ—Maximum Allowable Quantity
MDS—Mission Design Series
MEP—Master Entry Plan
MIL-HDBK—Military Handbook
MIL-SPEC—Military Specification
MIL- STD—Military Standard
MFH—Military Family Housing
MHE—Material Handling Equipment
MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification List
MPH—Miles Per Hour
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
MTP—Maximum Tire Pressure
MUTCD—Manaul on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NCS—National Consensus Standard
NDI—Non-Destructive Inspection
NEC—National Electrical Code
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                        937



NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
nm—Nautical Mile
NMAB—National Materials Advisory Board
NRTL—Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory
NSC—National Safety Council
NSF—National Sanitation Foundation
NSN—National Stock Number
OAP—Oil Analysis Program
OEEL—Occupational and Environmental Exposure Limit
OI—Operating Instruction
OH—Occupational Health
OJT—On-The-Job-Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSH—Occupational Safety and Health
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PDO—Publishing Distribution Office
PFAS—Personal Fall Arrest System
PH—Public Health
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
POL—Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
PR—Permit-required
psi—Pounds per Square Inch
psia—Pounds per Square Inch Absolute
psig—Pounds per Square Inch Gauge
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RADIAC—Radiation Detection, Identification and Computation
REM—Roentgen Equivalent Man
RF—Radio Frequency
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
 938                                                            AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
SABC—Self-Aid Buddy Care
SAE—Society of Automotive Engineers
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SCBA—Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus
SEG—Ground Safety
SG—Surgeon General
SOW—Statement of Work
SSEA—System Safety Engineering Analysis
TMDE—Testing, Measurement, Diagnostic and Evaluation
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
TOA—Table of Allowance
TO—Technical Order
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UL—Underwriters Laboratories
UN—United Nations
USAFSAM—US Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
USAF—United States Air Force
US—United States
UV—Ultraviolet
VDT—Video Display Terminal
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VMO—Vehicle Maintenance Officer
www—World-Wide Web
XIPS—Extra Improved Plow Steel

Terms
463L Equipment—Specialized material handling equipment designed for on- and off-loading
cargo from aircraft. It includes specially constructed pallet conveyor platforms.
Abrasive Wheel—A cutting tool made of abrasive grains held together by organic or inorganic
bonding materials.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                           939



Automated External Defibrillator—A device that analyzes the heart‘s rhythm and, if
necessary, tells the user to deliver a shock to a victim of sudden cardiac arrest. This shock, called
defibrillation, may help the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm of its own.
Actuator—A manually operated device used to initiate controls or operator action. An actuator
includes, but is not limited to, a push button, toggle switch, foot pedal, hand lever or a hand set
timer.
Administrative or Regulatory Authority—Governmental agency or the employer in the
absence of governmental jurisdiction.
Aerial Device—Any vehicle-mounted device, telescoping or articulating or both, that is used to
elevate personnel to job sites above ground. These devices include extendable boom platforms,
vertical towers or a combination of the above.
Aerial Ladder—An aerial device consisting of a single or multiple-section extendable ladder.
Affected worker—A worker whose duties require him/her to work in the vicinity of or operate a
machine or equipment on which servicing or maintenance is being performed.
Aisleway—An established path for powered material handling equipment (or foot traffic) used
inside a facility, such as aisleways in a warehouse.
Anchorage—See Fixed Anchorage.
Angle Indicator (Boom)—An accessory that measures the angle of the boom to the horizontal.
Anti-Repeat or One Stroke Only—A system or device that may be part of the clutch and/or
brake control mechanism and limits the press to a single stroke when the tripping control is held
in an operational position.
Appointed—Assigned specific responsibilities by the supervisor or the authorized user agency.
Approved—Listed and approved by Underwriters Laboratories Inc., Factory and Mutual
Engineering Corporation, The Bureau of Mines, National Institute for Occupational Safety and
Health, American National Standards Institute, National Fire Protection Association or other
nationally recognized agencies that list, approve, test or develop specifications for equipment to
meet fire protection, health or safety requirements.
Approved Portable Fire Extinguishers—Extinguishers procured to a military specification for
specific Air Force needs, or approved by a nationally recognized agency such as Underwriters
Laboratories Inc., Factory Mutual Laboratory, Bureau of Mines, Department of Interior,
Department of Transportation (DOT) or US Coast Guard.
Articulating Boom Platform—An aerial device with two (2) or more hinged boom sections.
Assembly Facilities—Facilities or portions of facilities used for gathering together 50 or more
persons for such purposes as deliberations, worship, entertainment, eating, drinking, amusement
or awaiting transportation.
Atmospheric Monitoring—The quantitative analysis of a confined space environment to
identify a potentially hazardous atmosphere.
 940                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Attendant—A trained individual stationed outside one or more confined spaces who monitors
authorized entrants and performs attendant‘s duties assigned in the permit space program.
Authorized Worker—A worker who locks or tags out machines or equipment in order to
perform servicing or maintenance on that machine or equipment.
Automatic Fire Detection System—A system that employs heat, smoke and flame detectors, or
a combination of these, to detect, announce and report the presence of fire. The system includes
features to manually actuate the system and transmit the alarm to the FES Flight.
Fire Suppression System—A system that automatically or manually discharges fire
extinguishing agent to suppress a fire.
Auxiliary Hoist—A supplemental hoisting unit of lighter load capacity and usually higher
speeds than provided by the main hoist.
Backrest Extension (Forklift)—A device extending vertically from the fork carriage to keep
cargo from falling rearward.
Bearer—A horizontal part of a scaffold on which the platform rests and which may be held in
place by ledgers.
Belt Conveyor—An endless fabric, rubber, plastic, leather or metal belt operating over suitable
drive, tail end and bend terminals and over belt idlers or slider bed for handling bulk materials,
packages or objects placed directly upon the belt.
Belt Idler—A roller or series of rollers that support the belt of a belt conveyor.
Blacklight—Light in the near ultraviolet spectrum, e.g. light having wave lengths of 3200A to
4200A (Angstrom Units), and that is used to stimulate fluorescence in various dyes.
Blanking or Blinding—The absolute closure of a pipe, line or duct, by fastening across it a solid
plate or cap capable of withstanding the maximum upstream pressure with no leakage beyond the
plate or cap.
Bloodborne Pathogens—Bloodborne pathogens are pathogenic microorganisms that are present
in human blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited
to, Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Body and/or Hand protection—Any glove, finger guard, arm protector, apron, bib or garment
designed to protect the body, arms, hands or fingers from contamination or injury due to
absorption or physical contact.
Body Harness—A harness secured about the wearer so fall arrest forces are distributed over the
thighs, buttocks, chest and shoulders, or any combination thereof. Includes provisions for
attaching a lanyard centered in the back near shoulder level or above the head.
Bonding—The interconnecting of metal raceways, equipment cabinets, shields, etc., to the
facility equipment system to eliminate electrical potential of individual pieces of equipment
relative to each other.
Boom Angle—The angle between the longitudinal centerline of the boom and the horizontal.
The boom longitudinal centerline is a straight line between the boom foot pin (heel pin)
centerline and the boom point sheave pin centerline.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         941



Boom (Crane)—A member, fixed or telescoping, hinged to the rotating superstructure and used
to support the hoisting tackle.
Boom Hoist—A hydraulic or mechanical hoist drum and rope reeving system used to raise and
lower the boom. The rope system may be all live reeving or a combination of live reeving and
pendants.
Boom Stop—A device used to limit the angle of the boom at the highest position.
Brace—A tie that holds one scaffold part in a fixed place with respect to another part.
Braided Wire Rope—A wire rope formed by plaiting (braiding) component wire strands.
Brake—A friction device for slowing down a conveyor component, bringing conveyor
equipment to a controlled stop, holding traveling or traversing equipment in a selected location,
preventing reverse travel and controlling over-speed due to the action of gravity.
– Brake, Drag. A brake that provides retarding force without external control.
– Brake, Holding. A brake that automatically prevents motion when power is off.
– Brake, Travel. A brake that retards or stops motion in a horizontal direction.
Bridge—That part of a crane consisting of girders, trucks, end ties, footwalks and drive
mechanism that carries the trolley or trolleys.
Bridge Plate—A plate, usually of metal and having a rated load capacity, used to span the space
between freight cars or trucks and the loading platform. Also known as a dockboard.
Breakthrough Time—The time required for a specific chemical to permeate through a
particular brand of protective clothing or equipment.
Buddy System—Two people, each responsible for each other‘s safety, are present in a
hazardous situation. There are two (2) types of buddy systems. One involves both persons
subjected to the sane hazard at the same time, and each assures the other‘s well-being and assists
if a mishap occurs. The other system is where one person is exposed to the hazard while the
other is not and acts as an observer.
Bumper (Buffer)—An energy absorbing device for reducing impact when a moving crane or
trolley reaches the end of its permitted travel or when two (2) moving cranes or trolleys come in
contact.
Cab
– The operator‘s compartment attached to the crane or monorail carrier in which the operator
may ride and from which the motions of the crane or monorail equipment may be controlled.
– A housing that covers the rotating superstructure machinery or operator‘s station.
Cable Laid Wire Rope—A wire rope composed of six (6) wire ropes wrapped around a fiber or
wire rope core.
Cab-Operated—Crane or monorail equipment, the motions of which are controlled from an
operator‘s cab.
Calibration or Recalibration—A laboratory or bench-top resetting of alarm points, spans and
zeros according to manufacturer‘s specifications.
 942                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Capable of being locked out—An energy isolating device is capable of being locked out if it
has a hasp or other means of attachment to which, or through which, a lock can be affixed, has a
locking mechanism built into it or if lockout can be achieved without the need to dismantle,
rebuild or replace the energy isolating device or permanently alter its energy control capability.
Carbon Dioxide Fire Suppression System—An automatic or manually activated fire
suppression system that uses carbon dioxide (a colorless, odorless, electrically nonconductive
gas) as its extinguishing agent.
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)—A procedure to support and maintain breathing and
circulation for a person who has stopped breathing (respiratory arrest) and/or whose heart has
stopped (cardiac arrest).
Carrying Methods—Following are descriptions of various types of carrying methods:
– Neck Carry Method. In this method, the material is carried on the back of the neck and
shoulders with both arms lifted to shoulder height and the hands grasping the sides or top of the
load.
– Shoulder Carry Method. The load rests on one shoulder with the near arm helping to support
the weight and the other arm brought across the body to steady the load.
– Side Hand Carry Method. This is simply the suitcase method and can be used only where the
load may be grasped by a handle or the equivalent.
– Tray Carry Method. The material is carried in front of the abdomen with both hands placed
under the bottom surface and the body serving as the balancer.
– Two Person Carry Method. A load is carried by two (2) people who use oral signals to
coordinate their movements. They decide on appropriate emergency signals to be given if the
grasp of either person should slip. They walk in step to coordinate their movements.
– Under-Arm Carry Method. The material is carried under one arm with the other arm brought
across in front of the body to steady and balance the load. Also called Side Under-Arm Carry
Method.
Cathode Ray Tube (CRT)—A sealed evacuated glass tube containing an electron source and a
phosphorous face often used to provide a visual image display. A television tube is a common
example.
Chain—A series of links pivotally joined together for conveying or transmitting motion or
power. General classes of chain are detachable, pintle, combination, roller, rivetless, coil,
inverted tooth and bar link chains.
– Chain, Roller Link. A chain consisting of a series of stamped steel plates fastened with pins,
bushings and rollers giving articulation in only one plane.
– Chain, Welded Link. A chain consisting of a series of interwoven links formed and welded
from round bar stock.
Chemical Protective Clothing—Chemical protective clothing is intended to protect the worker
from contact with chemicals. It may include items such as: hoods, face shields, chemical
goggles, jackets, coats, aprons, bib overalls, coveralls, splash suits, boots, shoe covers and full-
body encapsulating suits.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       943



Chuck—A clamp that holds a tool or material being worked in or on a machine.
Class I Solvents—Liquids having a flash point below 100°F (37.8°C).
Class II Solvents—Liquids having a flash point at or above 100°F (38°C) and below 140°F
(60°C).
Class IIIA Solvents—Liquids having a flash point at or above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F
(93.4°C).
Class IIIB Solvents—Liquids having a flash point at or above 200°F (93.4°C).
Class IV Solvents—Liquids classified as nonflammable.
Class A Fire—Fire involving ordinary combustible materials such as wood, cloth, paper, rubber
and many plastics.
Class B Fire—Fire involving flammable liquids, grease and gases.
Class C Fire—Fire involving energized electrical equipment.
Class D Fire—Fire involving combustible metals such as magnesium, titanium, zirconium,
sodium and potassium.
Climbing Ladder—A separate or built-in ladder with rungs spaced at equal distance and
attached to a scaffold or platform so people can climb and descend.
Clutch—A device used to connect and disconnect a driving and driven part of a mechanism that,
when connected, transmits rotary motion from the driving part to the driven member.
Coaming (Toeboard)—Raised sides on a platform installed to prevent tools and small items
from falling off.
Coating—An elastomer or other suitable material used to impart physical, electrical or other
desired properties when applied to a sling or sling component.
Combination Unit (Emergency Shower and Eyewash)—A unit combining a shower with an
eye and face wash, or eyewash with a drench hose, or both.
Combustible Liquid—A liquid having a flashpoint at or above 100o F (37.80o C). Combustible
liquids shall be divided into two classes as follows:
– Class II liquids have a flashpoint at or above 100oF (37.8o C) and below 140o F (60o C), except
any mixture having components with flashpoints of 200o F (93.3o C) or higher, the volume of
which makes up 99 percent or more of the total volume of the mixture.
– Class III liquids have flash points at or above 140o F (60o C) and are subdivided into two
subclasses:
-- Class IIIA liquids have flashpoints at or above 140o F (60o C) and below 200o F (93.3o C),
except any mixture having components with flashpoints of 200o F (93.3o C) or higher, the total
volume of which makes up 99 percent or more of the total volume of the mixture.
-- Class IIIB liquids have flashpoints at or above 200oF (93.3o C).
 944                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Commercial Cooking Facilities—Facilities such as clubs, dining halls, snackbars, cafeterias
and other places of assembly where the facility or a portion of it is devoted to the preparation of
food served to the public.
Competent Person—Competent person is an individual who, by way of training and/or
experience, is knowledgeable of applicable standards, is capable of identifying workplace
hazards relating to the specific operation, is designated by the unit commander, unit
representative or supervisor and has authority to take appropriate actions.
Compressed Gas—Any gas or mixture of gasses in a container having a pressure exceeding 40
psia at 70o F (21.1o C), or a pressure exceeding 104 psia at 130o F (54.4o C), or any liquid having
an absolute vapor pressure exceeding 40 psia at 100o F (37.8o C).
Conductor—A substance or device that readily conducts heat, electricity, sound, etc. Definitions
of specific conductors follow:
– Conductors, Bridge. The electrical conductors located along the bridge structure of a crane to
provide power to the trolley.
– Conductors, Enclosed. Bar or wire used to transmit electricity, enclosed to minimize the
possibility of accidental contact with the conductor.
– Conductors, Open. Bar or wire not enclosed, used to transmit electrical current and provide
power (frequently used with the crane or monorail carrier).
– Conductors, Runway (Main). The electrical conductors located along a crane runway to
provide power to the crane.
Confined Space—A space large enough and configured so a worker can bodily enter and
perform assigned work; has limited or restricted means for entry or exit (for example: tanks,
vessels, silos, storage bins, hoppers, vaults, manholes and pits); and is not designed for
continuous human occupancy.
Confined Space Program Team (CSPT)—A group of professionals, consisting of
representatives from installation Ground Safety office, FES Flight and BE, working together for
the purposes of organizing and controlling the installation confined space program.
Commanders, functional managers or their representatives are members of the team when their
particular organizations are involved.
Control—The system governing the starting, stopping, direction of motion, acceleration, speed,
retardation and function of the moving member in a predetermined manner.
Control Braking—A method of controlling motor speed when in an overhauling condition, i.e.,
as in a crane motor.
Control Voltage—The voltage passing through the operator‘s push-button station or the
controller and the control circuits.
Controller—An electric or mechanical device or assembly of devices for starting, stopping,
accelerating or decelerating a system, or which serves to govern in some predetermined manner
the power delivered to the system.
Controller, Spring Return—A controller that when released will return automatically to a
neutral or off position.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          945



Coolant—Oil or other fluid that draws off heat by circulating through a machine or by bathing a
mechanical part, such as oil that is applied to a metal cutting operation to dissipate the heat.
Corrective Lens—A lens manufactured to the wearer‘s individual corrective prescription.
Corrosive—Any substance that burns, injuriously irritates or destructively attacks           metal,
organic tissues or other materials.
Countertorque—A method of control by which the power to the motor is reversed to develop
torque in the opposite direction. Also used to slow or stop motion.
Counterweight—A weight used to balance or counter a load. Examples are:
– Additional weight attached to the rear of the forklift to provide better weight distribution.
– Weight used to supplement the weight of a crane to provide stability for lifting working loads.
Coupler—A device for locking together the parts of a tubular metal scaffold.
Crane—Any machine for lifting and lowering of a load and moving it horizontally, in which the
lifting device is an integral part of the machine.
– Crane, Cantilever Gantry. A gantry or semi-gantry crane in which the bridge girders or trusses
extend transversely beyond the crane runway on one or both sides.
– Crane, Crawler. A crane consisting of a rotating superstructure with power plant, operating
machinery and boom, mounted on a base, equipped with crawler treads for travel.
– Crane, Floor-Operated. A crane which is controlled by an operator on the floor or an
independent platform by using a pendant or nonconductive rope.
– Crane, Gantry. A crane similar to an overhead crane except the bridge for carrying the trolley
or trolleys is rigidly supported on two (2) or more legs running on fixed rails or other runway.
– Crane, Overhead. A crane with a movable bridge carrying a movable or fixed hoisting
mechanism and traveling on an overhead fixed runway structure.
– Crane, Remote-Operated. A crane controlled by an operator not in a cab or pulpit. It is
controlled by any method other than pendant or rope control (for example: radio, voice, remote
hydraulic control, etc.).
– Crane, Storage Bridge. A gantry type crane of long span usually used for bulk storage of
material; the bridge girders or trusses are rigidly or non-rigidly supported on one or more legs. It
may have one or more fixed or hinged cantilever ends.
– Crane, Underhung. A traveling bridge on two (2) or more runway tracks on which hoists and
carriers may travel for the purpose of lifting, transporting and lowering loads. It is suspended
under its runway tracks system, the trolley of which operates on the bottom flange of the track.
– Crane, Wall. A crane having a jib with or without trolley and supported from a side wall or line
of columns of a building. It is a traveling type and operates on a runway attached to the side wall
or columns.
Critical Load—Materials that if damaged or destroyed during a lift would present an
unrecoverable loss or unacceptable risk. Air Force materials will be designated as critical loads
for purposes of lifting or hoisting by an appropriate Program Manager or the functional manager
 946                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


at the facility where the lift will occur. Items for consideration in making a critical load
determination include, but are not limited to:
– Personnel injury or significant adverse health impact.
– Damage resulting in serious economic consequences (nonavailability of necessary funds to
repair or replace the item).
– Damage resulting in unacceptable delay to schedule (mission impairment) or other destructive
programmatic impact, e.g., loss of vital data.
– Undetectable damage that would jeopardize future operations or safety of a facility.
– Damage that may occur without exceptional care in handling because of close-tolerance
installation, high susceptibility to damage or other unusual characteristic.
– Damage that would result in significant release of hazardous materials.
– Damage that may occur because the item, although noncritical, must be lifted above a critical
item, e.g., loads of any sort in close proximity to a nuclear component or near concentrations of
hazardous materials.
Critical Pressure—The vapor pressure of a liquid at the critical temperature.
Critical Temperature—The temperature above which a gas cannot be liquefied by pressure
alone.
Crossover—A connecting track with an interlock mechanism on both ends mounted between
two interlocking cranes used to transfer a carrier from one bridge to the other.
Cryogen—A cryogenic liquid boils at temperatures below -160o C (-256o F) and is used as a
refrigerant. As used in this standard, normally refers to LN2 or LOX.
Cryogenics—The science of refrigeration, with reference to methods for producing very low
temperatures.
Cryotainer—A double-walled, insulated container (tank) for storage of a cryogenic fluid.
Cylinder—Generally a compressed gas container having a maximum water capacity of 1,000
lbs. (453.6 kg.). This is approximately the equivalent of 120 gallons (454.2 L).
Daily or Prior-to-Use Inspection—A visual inspection of equipment performed once each day
prior to initial use. If the equipment is not used on a daily basis, this inspection is performed
prior to each use and is not required on those days the equipment is not used. The use of
additional items such as ladders, personnel lifts or special tools or disassembly of lifting
equipment is not required by this standard for this inspection. Note: The daily or prior to use
inspection is not an Operational Test.
Deceleration Device—Any mechanism, such as rope-grab, rip-stitch lanyard or specifically
woven lanyard, that serves to dissipate a substantial amount of energy during a fall arrest, or
otherwise limits the energy imposed on a worker during fall arrest.
Deceleration Distance—The vertical distance between the user‘s fall arrest attachment at the
onset of fall arrest forces during a fall, and after the fall arrest attachment comes to a complete
stop.
Derrick—An apparatus consisting of a mast or equivalent member held at its upper end by guys
or braces, with or without a boom, for use with hoisting mechanism and operating ropes.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        947



Designated Person—Selected or assigned by the supervisor or the unit‘s representative as
qualified to perform specific duties.
Design Working Load—The maximum intended load, being the total of all loads including the
weight of the workers, materials, equipment and platform.
Die—Tooling used in a press for cutting and forming material. Upper and lower dies make a
complete set.
Dielectric Boom Shield—An insulating device installed on booms to provide electrocution
protection to operators and load handlers.
Dog—A device for gripping or holding material or a machine component in place.
Dolly—A low mobile platform that rolls on casters, used for transporting heavy loads.
Double Block and Bleed—The closure or isolation of a confined space from a line, duct or pipe
by locking or tagging two (2) closed in-line valves and locking or tagging open to the outside
atmosphere a drain or bleed in the line between the two (2) closed valves.
Drive—An assembly of the necessary structural, mechanical and electrical parts which provides
the motive power for a conveyor, monorail, crane, etc.
Dropline—A vertical line attached to a fixed anchorage to which a lanyard is attached.
Drop Section—A mechanism which will permit a section of track to be lowered out of
alignment with a stationary track.
Drum
– A cylindrical or polygonal rim type of wheel around which cable, chain, belt or other linkage
may be wrapped. A drum may be driven or driving. The face may be smooth, grooved, fluted or
flanged;
– A cylindrical or bilged shipping container having straight sides and flat or bumped ends,
designed for storage and shipment as an unsupported outer package that may be shipped without
boxing or crating.
Dry Cleaning—The process of removing dirt, grease, paints and other stains from such items as
wearing apparel, textiles, fabrics and rugs by the use of non-aqueous liquids (solvents, non-water
based).
Dry or Wet Chemical Fire Suppression System—An automatic or manually activated fire
suppression system normally installed over cooking equipment and dipping vats.
Dual Phase Processing—A process in which a dry-cleaning operation precedes or follows a
laundering operation in the same equipment.
Electrical Worker Personal Protective Devices—Equipment designed to protect against
electrical shock while working on electrically energized circuits. May include rubber insulating
matting, blankets, line hose, gloves, sleeves, rain gear, footwear, safety belts, lanyards and
lifelines, arc flash protective clothing and special hand tools.
Emergency Shower Head—A high-volume spray head specially designed for use on an
emergency shower.
 948                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Emergency Shower—A unit that cascades water over a worker‘s entire body to remove
hazardous chemicals splashed or sprayed on the worker.
Energized—A circuit electrically connected to a source of potential difference or an electrical
charge. Can also include mechanical, hydraulic and pneumatic pressure differences.
Energy Isolating Device—A physical device that prevents transmission or release of energy
including, but not limited to: a manually operated electrical circuit breaker, disconnect switch,
slide gate, slip blind, line valve, blocks and similar devices with a visible indication of the
position of the device. Push buttons, selector switches and other control circuit type devices are
not energy isolating devices.
Entrant—Any employee who is trained and authorized to enter a confined space.
Entry—Any action by which a person passes through an opening into a permit-required
confined space. Entry includes work activities in the space and is considered to have occurred as
soon as any part of the entrant‘s body breaks the plane of an opening into the confined space.
Entry Permit—The written authorization for entry under defined conditions into a confined
space for a stated purpose during a specified time. The entry permit becomes the written record
of circumstances surrounding each entry operation. See paragraph 23.4.1.2 for entry permit
retention instructions.
Entry Permit System—The system for issuing entry permits and ensuring safe entry into and
work within confined spaces.
Entry Supervisor—The person responsible for determining if acceptable entry conditions are
present at a permit space where entry is planned.
Equalizer—A device that compensates for unequal length or stretch of a rope.
Equipment Ground—Connection to ground from one or more of the non-current carrying metal
parts of apparatus or equipment.
Equivalent—An alternative design or feature which will give an equal degree or factor of safety.
Exit Access—Exit access that is a portion of a means of egress that leads to an exit.
Extendible Boom Platform—An aerial device (except ladders) with a telescopic or extendible
boom. Telescopic derricks with personnel platform attachments are considered extendible boom
platforms when used with a personnel platform.
Extension Ladder—A non-self-supporting portable ladder, adjustable in length, with two (2) or
more sections traveling in guides or brackets arranged to permit length adjustment. Its size is
designated by the sum of the lengths of the sections measured along the side rails.
Eye and Face Protectors—This equipment includes spectacles and goggles (with and without
corrective lenses), face shields and hoods.
Eye and Face Wash Unit—A unit used to irrigate and flush both the face and eyes.
Eye Hazard Area or Task—A location or task where liquids, vapors, dust, particles, light, heat
or other situations exist that require eye protective devices and extra precautions by personnel.
Examples of eye hazards are splashes or mists from fuels, corrosive or toxic chemicals or other
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        949



liquids; particles of metals from grinding, cutting or welding; dusts; and harmful levels of light
from welding, ultraviolet, laser or other sources.
Eyewash Bottle—A squeeze type or plunger-actuated bottle that supplements permanent units,
portable units or both.
Eyewash Unit—A unit used to irrigate and flush the eyes only.
Face Shield—A protective device worn in front of the eyes, covering a portion of, or all of, the
face.
Facility Ground—A grounding system of 10 ohms or less that the entire third wire ground
system, metal raceways, conduits, generators, transformers and other equipment within the
facility are connected to.
Fail-Safe—A provision designed to automatically stop or safely control any motion if a
malfunction occurs.
Feather Board—An angular board with multiple parallel saw cuts used as a side and top hold-
down to prevent kickbacks and keep hands away from moving blades and cutters.
Field Check—A method of checking an instrument for a proper response in the field. It is a pass
or fail functional check of the instrument.
Fence (Woodworking Machinery)—A device installed for the purpose of acting as a stop and
guide for sawing materials. Also called a rip fence.
Filler Piece—A narrow strip of wood with cleats on both ends that permits ripping of narrow
material on circular saws without removal of a guard.
Fire Area—Any area of a building that is enclosed by fire-resistant partitions.
Fire Hydrant—A valved outlet connected to a water distribution system designed to permit the
transfer of water from the water distribution system to a fire fighting vehicle or hose streams.
Fire Protection—Sprinkler systems and other fire fighting or fire protection equipment or
systems.
Fire Protection Authority—The senior individual assigned responsibility for managing the
installation fire prevention and protection program or their authorized representative.
Fire Suppression System—A system which automatically or manually discharges fire
extinguishing agent to suppress a fire.
Fixed Anchorage—A secure point of attachment, not part of the work surface, for droplines,
lifelines or lanyards. An approved fixed anchorage shall be capable of supporting a minimum
deadweight of 5,000 pounds (per person).
Flammable Liquid—A liquid having a flashpoint below 100o F (37.80o C) closed cup test and
having a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds psi at 100o F (37.80o C). Flammable liquids are
categorized as Class 1 liquids and are further subdivided as follows:
– Class 1A have a flashpoint below 73o F (22.8o C) and boiling points below 100o F (37.8o C).
– Class 1B have flashpoints below 73o F (22.8o C) and boiling points at or above 100o F (37.8o
C).
 950                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


– Class 1C have flashpoints at or above 73oF (22.8o C) and below 100oF (37.8o C).
Flange—A collar, disk or plate used to hold an abrasive wheel in position on a rotating shaft.
Flashpoint—The minimum temperature at which a liquid gives off vapor within a test vessel in
sufficient concentration to form an ignitable mixture with air near the surface of the liquid.
Flight line—Any area or facility including aprons, hardstands and ramps on or in which aircraft
may be parked, stored, service or maintained.
Flight line Fire Extinguisher—A wheeled portable fire extinguisher provided for the protection
of aircraft. Included are various sizes of Halon 1211, carbon dioxide and dry chemical
extinguishers.
Floor—The interior walking surface upon which machinery, aisles and passageways are located.
This does not include platforms, walkways or catwalks.
Floor Hole—An opening measuring less than 12 inches but no more than 1 inch in its least
dimension in any floor, platform, pavement or yard, through which materials but not persons
may fall, such as a belt hole, pipe opening or slot opening.
Floor Opening—An opening measuring 12 inches or more in its least dimension in any floor,
platform, pavement or yard, through which persons may fall; such as a hatchway, stair or ladder
opening, pit or large manhole. Floor openings occupied by elevators, dumb waiters, conveyors,
machinery or containers are excluded from this subpart.
Foot Protector—A product designed to protect the foot from injury due to moderate impact;
abrasions; cuts; burns; corrosive, caustic or toxic materials; freezing; absorption; or dampness.
Footwalk—A walkway with handrail, attached to a crane bridge or trolley for access purposes.
Fork Extensions—Steel extensions that fit over the forks to extend the reach of the forklift. The
use of extensions extends the reach but reduces the capacity of the forklift.
Fork Height—The vertical distance from the ground to the forklift load carrying surface
adjacent to the heel of the forks with the mast vertical and forks extended.
Free Fall Distance—The vertical displacement of the fall arrest attachment point on the
employee‘s body harness between onset of the fall and just before the system begins to apply
force to arrest the fall.
Functional Manager—The senior operating official at all levels exercising managerial control
of an activity or operation. This individual usually can acquire and commit resources for the
abatement of occupational safety and health hazards. Functional managers are designated by
MAJCOM, DRU, FOA or installment commanders.
Gauge Pressure—The pressure above or below local atmospheric pressure. Therefore, absolute
pressure minus local atmospheric pressure equals gauge pressure. Gauge pressure is commonly
designated by the abbreviation psig.
Goggle—A device that protects the eyes and eye sockets. They have contour-shaped eyecups or
full facial contact, glass or plastic lenses and are held in place by a headband or other suitable
means.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          951



Graphics—Elements (words, emblems, colors, symbols and other visual devices) of a sign or
tag used to convey a warning, caution, danger or serve as a notice of an existing or potential
hazard.
Grounding Stick—A device used to ground electronic circuits and bleed off voltage or static
electricity.
Grounding System—Complete ground circuit for any equipment, facility or system.
Guardrail—A protective railing built along exposed sides of stairs and platforms designed to
prevent people or objects falling into an open space or stairwell. The top part of a guardrail can
serve as a handrail.
Halon 1301 Fire Suppression System—An automatic or manually activated fire suppression
system using Halon 1301 (a colorless, odorless, electrically non-conductive gaseous agent).
Hand Chain Wheel—A wheel with formed pockets on its periphery to allow torque to be
transmitted to the hoist when a force is applied to the hand chain.
Hand-Held Drench Hose—A flexible hose connected to a water supply and used to irrigate and
flush eyes, face and body areas.
Handrail—Single bar, pipe or wood rail supported on brackets attached to a wall or partition to
provide a handhold for people using stairs to keep them from falling or tripping.
Hazard Identification—For the purpose of this standard, hazard identification refers to signs or
tags that warn, caution or inform personnel of a hazardous situation.
Hazardous Atmosphere—An atmosphere presenting a potential for death, disablement, injury
or acute illness from one or more of the following causes: a flammable gas, vapor or mist in
excess of 10 percent of its lower explosive limit (LEL) or lower flammable limit (LFL); an
airborne combustible dust at a concentration that meets or exceeds its LEL or LFL; atmospheric
oxygen concentration below 19.5 percent or above 23.5 percent; an atmospheric concentration of
any chemical substance greater than the occupational and environmental exposure limit (OEEL),
which is capable of causing death, incapacitation, impairment of ability to self-rescue, injury or
acute illness due to its health effects.
Hazardous Material—A substance that is explosive, flammable, poisonous, corrosive,
oxidizing, irritating or otherwise harmful and may cause personal injury or harm.
Head Protection—A device worn to provide protection to workers when there is the potential
for injury to the head from impact and penetration from flying, falling or stationary objects or
limited electrical shock, heat or burn. Protection includes a suitable chinstrap and harness to
secure the helmet to the head.
High-Lift Platform Truck—A truck equipped with a load platform, intended primarily for
transporting and tiering loaded skid platforms.
High-Lift Truck—A truck designed to permit stacking material in tiers. Types in this category
are high-lift fork truck, high-lift ram truck, high-lift boom truck, high-lift clamp truck and high-
lift platform truck.
 952                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


High Voltage—Any circuit, set of conductors or exposed point of contact in which the potential
to ground or between conductors is greater than 600 volts nominal.
Hitch—A sling configuration whereby the sling is fastened to an object or load, either directly or
around it.
– Basket Hitch. A sling configuration where the sling is passed under the load and has both ends,
end attachments, eyes or handles on the hook or single master link.
– Choker Hitch. A sling configuration with one end of the sling passing under the load and
through an end attachment, handle or eye on the other end of the sling. Used for turning an
object.
– Vertical Hitch. A method of supporting a load by a single vertical part or leg of the sling.
Hoist—Includes only those components furnished by the hoist manufacturer, such as drums
tackle, prime movers, limiting device, mounting bases, etc. When hoists are mounted as integral
parts of more complex lifting equipment, they become component parts of that equipment. They
are subject to the safety standards and inspection intervals established for the end item.
Hoist Chain—The load bearing chain in a hoist.
Hook, Latch Type—A safety hook incorporating a device to bridge the hook throat opening and
that requires manual movement to release the load from the hook.
Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health (IDLH)—Any condition that poses an immediate or
delayed threat to life, that would cause immediate or delayed adverse health effects or that would
interfere with a worker‘s ability to escape unaided from a permit-required space.
Inclined Ladder or ―Ship’s‖ Ladder‖—A stairway installed at an angle greater than 50
degrees. All stairway criteria, except the angle of rise, applies to inclined ladders.
Inerting—Rendering the atmosphere of a confined space non-flammable, non-explosive or
otherwise chemically non-reactive by displacing or diluting the original atmosphere with steam
or a gas that is non-reactive with respect to the contents of the space. Nitrogen is a common
inerting gas. Note: This procedure creates an IDLH oxygen-deficient atmosphere.
In-Running Nip Point—A hazardous condition created by moving or rotating objects that move
toward each other.
Insulated Aerial Device—An aerial device designed for work near energized electrical lines and
apparatus.
Insulated Fuse Puller—A non-conductive device used to remove fuses from circuit boxes.
Interlock—A device that prevents operation of the control that starts a machine in motion until a
condition is met, such as the guard being in place.
Intrinsically Safe—As applied to equipment and wiring, equipment and wiring that are
incapable of releasing sufficient electrical energy under normal or abnormal conditions to cause
ignition of a specific hazardous atmospheric mixture.
Ionizing Radiation/Ionized Radiation—Electromagnetic or particulate radiation, which may
cause ionization and damage within the cells or tissues of the body, and that has sufficient energy
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       953



to produce direct ionization in passage through a substance. Examples of ionizing radiation are
X-rays, gamma rays, alpha particles and beta particles.
Irritant—Substances that when blown or splashed onto the body or in the eyes will not normally
cause lasting or permanent damage, but will definitely irritate the skin or eyes.
Isolation—Positively preventing any unwanted form of energy (or other agent with a serious
potential for hazard) from contacting a worker or operation through the use of blanking, double
block and bleed or lockout and/or tagout.
Job Safety Analysis (JSA)—Procedure used by supervisors and workers to assess the hazards
associated with a work procedure and determine the safest, most efficient means of
accomplishing a given task. Specific documentation is required. The prescribing directives for
conducting JSAs are AFI 91-202 and 29 CFR 1910.132.
Kickback—The tendency of blades and cutters to force material being cut or milled up and back
toward the operator.
Ladder Stand—A mobile fixed size, self-supporting ladder made up of a wide flat tread ladder
in the form of stairs. The ladder stand may include handrails.
Lanyard—A flexible line used to secure a wearer of a body harness to a dropline, lifeline or
fixed anchorage.
Lay—The linear distance for one strand to go completely around a rope.
Ledger (Stringer)—A horizontal part on a scaffold that extends from post to post that supports
the bearer forming a tie between the posts.
Lifeline—A flexible line for connection to an anchorage connector at one end to hang vertically
(vertical lifeline), or for connection to anchorages or anchorage connectors at both ends to span
horizontally (horizontal lifeline).
Lift Section—A mechanism that will lift a section of crane trolley track out of alignment with a
stationary track.
Limiting Device—A mechanical or electrical device designed to limit motion.
Limit Switch—A switch that is operated by some part of the hoist or equipment to limit travel of
lifting option to prevent hoist or equipment damage.
Linebreaking—The intentional opening in a confined space of a pipe, line or duct that is or has
been carrying flammable, corrosive or toxic material, inert gas or any fluid at a pressure or
temperature that is capable of causing injury.
Liquefaction—The process of refrigerating a gas to a temperature below its critical temperature
so that liquid can be formed at some suitable pressure also below the critical pressure.
Liquid Cylinder—A pressurized double-walled and insulated container used to hold cryogenic
liquefied gas or refrigerated liquefied gas.
Liquid Nitrogen Fire Suppression System—An automatic or manually activated fire
suppression system using LN2, which displaces oxygen to extinguish a fire.
 954                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Load Block (Lower)—The assembly of hook or shackle, swivel, sheaves, pins, bearings and
frame suspended by the hoisting ropes or chains.
Load Block (Upper)—The assembly of hook or shackle, swivel, sheaves, pins and frame
suspended from the boom point.
Load Rating—A rating in pounds established by the manufacturer as the maximum safe
working load for an individual hoist, crane or related lifting equipment.
Load Test—Also called rated load test. A 100-percent to 125-percent test of the rated capacity
(working load limit), as determined by type of equipment and designated by the manufacturer.
See individual chapters for applicable equipment-specific test procedures.
Load (Working)—The external load, in pounds applied to the crane, including the weight of
load-attaching equipment such as load blocks, shackles, slings and ropes.
Lockout and/or Tagout Program—A program consisting of energy control procedures, staff
training and periodic inspections established before a staff member performs any servicing or
maintenance on a machine or equipment where the unexpected energizing, start-up or release of
stored energy could occur and cause injury. Prior to service, the machine or equipment shall be
isolated from the energy source and rendered inoperative.
Lockout Device—A device that utilizes a lock and key to hold an energy isolating device in the
safe position for the purpose of protecting personnel.
Low-Lift Truck—A truck designed to raise a load sufficiently to permit horizontal movement.
Examples are the low-lift platform truck and the pallet truck.
Lower Explosive Limit (LEL)—The lowest concentration of flammable or combustible vapor,
which can be ignited by a spark or flame (also referred to as ―Lower Flammable Limit [LFL]‖ in
industry).
Man-Rated—A crane specifically configured or designed and built for raising and lowering
personnel in work cages or baskets, having a positive controlled powered lowering system, upper
limit switch and dead-man controls.
Master Entry Plan (MEP)—A written document, which must be reviewed annually by the
CSPT, that authorizes entry supervisors to issue entry permits. This document defines acceptable
entry conditions for routine recurring entries into like spaces.
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)—Electronic, written or printed information on hazardous
material prepared IAW 29 CFR 1910.1200.
Maximum Intended Load—The total weight of all loads including the weight of workers,
materials and scaffolding.
May—Indicates an acceptable or satisfactory method of accomplishment.
Midrail—A rail approximately midway between the guardrail and platform and secured to the
uprights erected along the exposed sides and ends of platforms.
Military-Unique (Workplaces, Operations, Equipment and Systems)—DoD military and
civilian operations and workplaces that are unique to the national defense mission. This includes
combat and operation, testing and maintenance of military-unique equipment and systems such
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        955



as military weapons, military-unique aircraft, missiles, early warning systems, military space
systems, ordnance and tactical vehicles. It also includes operations such as peacekeeping
missions; field maneuvers; combat training; military flight and missile operations; military-
unique research; development, test and evaluation activities; and actions required under national
defense contingency conditions.
Mishap Prevention Sign—A visual display made of some durable material (metal, wood, rigid
plastic) intended to caution, warn or provide information.
Mishap Prevention Tag—A visual display, intended to caution or warn, made of materials that
will withstand the environmental conditions expected in the workplace and are securely attached
in an appropriate manner to ensure visibility, as close to the machine or equipment as possible.
Mobile Scaffold (Tower)—A light, medium or heavy duty scaffold that is mounted on casters or
wheels.
Mobile Unit—A combination of an aerial device, its vehicle and related equipment.
Mobile Work Platform—A scaffold that provides a work level, one or more frames high, on
casters or wheels, with bracing across or diagonally from the platform to the posts.
Motorized Hand Truck—A truck designed to be controlled by a walking operator.
Multiple-Spray Shower Unit—A unit using more than a single head and delivering water from
more than one direction.
Musculoskeletal–Disorder—Refers to conditions that involve the nerves, tendons, muscles and
supporting structures of the body.
Non-ionizing Radiation—Electromagnetic radiation that does not have sufficient energy to
produce direct radiation when passing through a substance. Examples include radiofrequency
(RF) radiation, visible light, infrared and ultraviolet.
Nonmilitary-Unique (Workplaces and Operations)—DoD military and civilian workplaces
and operations that are comparable generally to those of the private sector. Examples include
facilities involved and work performed in the repair and overhaul of weapons, aircraft or vehicles
(except for equipment trials); construction; supply services; civil engineer or public works;
medical services; and office work.
Non-Permit Confined Space—A space that does not contain or, with respect to atmospheric
hazards, have the potential to contain any hazards capable of causing death or serious physical
harm.
Nose, Nosing—The portion of a tread projecting beyond the face and the riser immediately
below.
Notice of Hazard—A written warning of a condition, procedure or practice that constitutes an
occupational hazard. As used in the context of this standard, Notice of Hazard refers to AF Form
1118, Notice of Hazard.
Nuclear-Certified Equipment—Hoists and related lifting equipment approved for use with
nuclear weapons as listed in TO 00-110N-16, Equipment Authorized for Use with Nuclear
Weapons. The Air Force single point of contact for nuclear certification of lifting equipment is
 956                                                                  AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


HQ AFSEC/SEWE. This office establishes the equipment as certified and ensures the equipment
is listed in the MNCL (https://www.mil.nwd.kirtland.af.mil.mncl).
Occupational and Environmental Exposure Limit (OEEL)—The most appropriate limit
adopted from established recognized standards including, but not limited to, those in AFIs and
AFOSH Standards, the latest edition of the TLV® Booklet published annually by the American
Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, 29 CFR 1910.1000 Tables Z-1, Z-2 and Z-3,
and 40 CFR 141. OEELs are limits of exposure established to protect personnel from hazardous
OEH threat exposures. OEELs apply to OEH threat exposures for individuals and/or similarly
exposed groups of individuals.
Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation—An exposure incurred as a result of an
individual‘s employment or duties. Occupational exposure does not include exposure to ionizing
radiation for medical diagnosis or therapy.
Open Riser—The air space between the treads of stairs.
Operational Test—A test of mechanical and electrical controls, limit switches and safety
devices through the complete operational range without a load.
Operator’s Station—Location at which actuators are placed for the purpose of starting,
stopping, reversing or otherwise controlling the conveyor or system of conveyors during normal
operation.
Order (Stock) Picker Truck, High Lift—A high-lift truck with operator‘s station attached to
the forks. The station and forks move as a unit. The truck is intended for manual stock selection
but may be capable of self-loading or tiering.
Organizational Rescue Team—A group of two (2) or more personnel typically designated and
trained by an organization to perform rescues from confined spaces within that organization.
Outriggers—Extendible or fixed metal arms, attached to the mounting base, which rest on
supports at the outer ends.
Overload Device—A mechanical or electrical device designed to disconnect the driven
equipment from the motive power in the event of an overload on the conveyor.
Oxygen-Deficient Atmosphere—An atmosphere containing less than 19.5 percent oxygen by
volume.
Oxygen-Enriched Atmosphere—An atmosphere containing more than 23.5 percent oxygen by
volume.
Pallet—A low portable platform of wood, metal, or fiberboard used to stack, move, store and
transport supplies as a unit.
Parked Vehicle (flight line)—To put or leave a vehicle for a period of time in a certain location.
Pawl (Dog)—A device for positively holding the mechanism, drum, etc., against undesired
rotation.
Pendant Station—Controls suspended from the hoist for operating the unit from the floor or
portable ―plug-in‖ pendant controls.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                          957



Peripheral Guard—Commonly referred to as a tongue guard. This adjustable guard is installed
on machines (grinding machine) where the operator is in front of the grinding surface during the
operation.
Permit-Required Confined Space—A confined space that has one or more of the following
characteristics: contains or has a potential to contain a hazardous atmosphere; contains a material
that has the potential for engulfing the entrant; has an internal configuration such that an entrant
could be trapped or asphyxiated by inwardly converging walls or by a floor that slopes
downward and tapers to a smaller cross-section; or contains any other recognized serious safety
or health hazard. Note: Also see Table 23.1.
Permit-Required Confined Space Program—The overall written program an organization
develops for controlling and protecting workers from permit space hazards and for regulating
entries into permit spaces.
Personal Fall Arrest System—An assembly of components and subsystems used to arrest a
person in a fall from a working height.
Phase Change—The passing of a substance from one phase (state) to another (liquid to gas,
solid to liquid, etc.).
Physical Hazard and Obstruction—Specific hazards of such nature that failure to identify
them may lead to accidental injury to workers or property damage.
Pinch Point—Any point other than the point of operation where it is possible for a person‘s
body or clothing to be caught between moving parts.
Piping Systems—Any pipes or conduit used for conveying gases, liquids or semi-liquids, except
those carrying solids in air or gas.
Pitch—The angle at which the fixed ladder is inclined against a structure or piece of equipment.
Plano—A lens that does not incorporate correction.
Platform—A walking or working surface elevated above the surrounding floor or ground (such
as a balcony or landing) or a personnel carrying device (basket or bucket), which is a component
of a mobile unit.
Point of Operation—The areas of a machine where cutting, shearing, forming, assembling, etc.,
takes place.
Portable Fire Extinguishers—Manually operated, hand-held or wheeled extinguishers
containing a fire extinguishing agent with a means to discharge the agent and direct it onto a fire.
Position Belt—Belt fit around the worker‘s waist and attached to a lanyard (usually in the back)
which is then attached to an anchor.
Powder-Actuated Tools—Tools, such as ramsets, where cartridge-type explosives are the
source of power.
Power Taps—Power strips designed for low-powered loads that are relocatable multiple
extensions of a branch circuit to supply laboratory equipment, industrial workshops, and to
provide outlet receptacles for computers, audio and video equipment and other equipment. Power
taps are not designed for high powered loads such as coffee makers, space heaters, refrigerators
 958                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


and microwave ovens, which can easily exceed the recommended ampere ratings on many power
strips.
Pressure Regulator—A pressure and/or temperature activated device used to prevent the
pressure from rising above a predetermined maximum, thereby preventing rupture of a normally
charged cylinder when subjected to a standard fire test.
Primary Warning Color—This color appears as a circular band on piping systems and
identifies a material which is classified by its primary hazard.
Prohibited Condition—Any set of conditions in a permit space where the hazard potential
exceeds the limits authorized by the entry permit.
Proof Test—A nondestructive tension test performed by the manufacturer or qualified person to
verify construction and workmanship of a lifting device. See individual chapters for applicable
equipment-specific test procedures.
Proximity Warning Device—A device installed on booms that alerts or warns the operator
when the boom is in proximity to energized electric power lines.
Pulpit Operated—A crane or unit operated from a fixed operator station not attached to the unit.
Push-button Station—An electrical control device consisting of push-button operated contacts
in an enclosure used by the operator for control of the powered motions of the crane, hoist and
other auxiliary equipment.
Push Block—A block of wood having a handle and shoulder at the rear end that is used for
pushing short lengths of material over revolving cutters.
Push Stick—A strip of wood with a notch cut into one end that is used to push short lengths of
material through saws or other cutting operations.
Qualified Person—A person who by possession of a recognized degree, certificate or
professional standing, or who by extensive knowledge, training and experience, successfully
demonstrated the ability to solve/resolve problems relating to the subject matter, the work or the
project.
Radiation Protection Survey—An evaluation of potential radiation hazards associated with the
use of industrial x-ray and gamma ray equipment under specified conditions. When appropriate,
such evaluation includes inspection of equipment, examination of its location with reference to
controlled and uncontrolled areas in the immediate environment and measurement of exposure
levels arising from operation of the equipment.
Rail Clamp—An attachment or device for clamping movable equipment to the rail to hold it in a
fixed location.
Rail Stop—A stop mounted at the ends of conveyor rails to limit the travel of traversing
machinery.
Rated Line Voltage—The manufacturer‘s recommended safe working line voltage.
Rated Load—Sometimes called rated capacity or working load limit. The maximum working
load, as designated by the manufacturer, for which a crane, individual hoist or related hoisting
equipment is designed and built. Note: HQ AFSEC/SEW establishes rated load for nuclear-
certified hoists.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       959



Rated Load Test—Also called load test. A 100-percent to 125-percent test of the rated capacity
(working load limit), as determined by type of equipment and designated by the manufacturer.
See individual chapters for applicable equipment-specific test procedures.
Reach Truck—A self-loading truck, generally high-lift, having load-engaging means mounted
so it can be extended horizontally forward. This permits a load to be picked up and deposited in
the extended position and transported in the retracted position.
Real Property Installed Equipment—Installed equipment attached to and made part of
buildings and structures (such as heating systems), but not movable equipment (such as plant
equipment).
Reciprocating Conveyor—Any conveyor that progressively advances material by a back and
forth motion of its conveying medium. It may be equipped with hinged flights or tilting dogs or
pushers.
Red Ball—A situation requiring a sense of urgency and priority actions on the flight line
intended to prevent late aircraft takeoffs and ground aborts.
Reeving—A system in which a rope or chain travels around drums, sheaves or sprockets.
rem—A measure of the dosage of ionizing radiation to body tissue in terms of its estimated
biological effect relative to a dose from 1 roentgen (r) of X-rays (1 millirem (mrem) = 0.001
rem).
Remote Control—A control station or any system of controls in which the actuator is situated in
a remote location and is not mechanically attached to the device being controlled.
Retrieval Line—A line or rope secured at one end to a worker‘s full harness or wristlets, with
the other end secured to a lifting or other retrieval device. The retrieval line shall be used to
remove an unconscious entrant from a confined space.
Rise—The vertical distance from the top of a tread to the top of the next higher tread.
Riser—The upright part of a step at the back of a lower tread and near the leading edge of the
next higher tread.
Rope Grab—A deceleration device that travels on a lifeline and automatically engages the
lifeline and locks so as to arrest a fall. A rope grab usually employs the principle of inertial
locking, cam or lever locking or both.
Runner (Scaffolding)—The lengthwise horizontal bracing or bearing members.
Runway—The track and supports (rails, beams, girders, brackets and framework) system upon
which the crane or trolley travels.
Runway (Catwalk)—A passageway for persons, elevated above the floor or ground level, such
as a foot walk along shafting or a walkway between buildings. It is sometimes called a catwalk.
Safety Climbing Device (Ladder)—A device, other than a cage, designed to limit falling
distance. It may incorporate such features as belts, friction brakes or sliding attachments.
 960                                                                 AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Safety Device—A mechanism or an arrangement used to prevent an unsafe condition,
preventing continuation of an unsafe condition, warning of an unsafe condition or limiting or
eliminating unsafe effects of a possible condition.
Safety Observer—A worker trained in CPR and qualified to operate the equipment in use.
Responsible for placing equipment in safe/neutral mode and administer immediate assistance to a
technician in the event of an emergency. The safety observer may be the supervisor.
Scaffold—Any temporary raised platform and all the necessary vertical, diagonal and horizontal
parts used for supporting workers and materials or both. Also known as a Scaffold Tower.
Secondary Warning Color—This color appears as arrows (or triangles) on piping systems and
identifies a material with a second hazard distinctly different from that indicated by its primary
color.
Sectional Ladder—A non-self supporting portable ladder, nonadjustable in length, consisting of
two (2) or more sections constructed so it functions as a single ladder. Its size is designated by
the overall length of the assembled sections.
Seizing—The cord, tape or wire wrapped around a rope to prevent it from unraveling when it is
cut in two.
Self-Contained Emergency Shower or Eyewash Unit—A unit that must be refilled or replaced
after use and may be portable or fastened to a supporting structure.
Self-Retracting Lifeline and/or Lanyard—A deceleration device which contains a drum-
wound line which may be slowly extracted from, or retracted onto, the drum under slight tension
during normal worker movement and that, after onset of a fall, automatically locks the drum and
arrests the fall.
Selvage Edge—The finished edge of synthetic webbing designed to prevent unraveling.
Service, Normal—That service that involves operation of cranes and hoists with randomly
distributed loads within the rated load limit, or with uniform loads less than 65 percent of rated
load, for no more than 15 percent of the time of a single work shift for manually operated cranes
and hoists, and 25 percent of the time of a single work shift for electric- or air-powered cranes
and hoists.
Service, Heavy—That service that involves operation of cranes and hoists within the rated load
limit that exceeds normal service.
Service, Severe—That service that involves normal or heavy service of cranes and hoists with
abnormal environmental conditions, such as excessively high or low ambient temperatures,
exposure to adverse weather, corrosive fumes, dust-laden or moisture-laden atmospheres and
hazardous locations.
Shall—Indicates a mandatory requirement.
Shear Point—The immediate area where two (2) or more machine elements are in close contact,
creating a shearing action.
Sheave—A grooved wheel or pulley used with a rope to change direction and point of
application of a pulling force.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                         961



– Sheave, Non-running. A sheave used to equalize tension in two (2) parts of the rope. Because
of its slight movement, it is not termed a running sheave.
– Sheave, Running. A sheave that rotates as the load block is raised or lowered.
Shelf Life—Period of time that a product or chemical can be stored before use and still be used
for its designed purpose.
Should—Indicates a preferred method of accomplishment.
Side Loader—A truck, generally a high-lift, having a load engaging means mounted so it can be
extended laterally to permit a load to be picked up and deposited in the extended position and
transported in the retracted position.
Sideshield—A device of metal or plastic (or both) or other material, hinged or fixed firmly to the
spectacle to protect the eye from side exposure.
Single Ladder—A freestanding portable ladder, nonadjustable in length, consisting of but one
section. Its size is designated by the overall length of the siderail.
Snagging—Grinding that removes relatively large amounts of material without regard to close
tolerances or surface finish requirements.
Span-Gas Test—Test required to allow atmospheric monitoring equipment to adjust its sensors
and/or to check alarms against a known concentration of gases, accomplished daily or prior to
each use.
Spectacle, Safety—A device patterned after conventional type spectacle eyewear but of more
substantial construction. They may be equipped with sideshields. The lenses can be plano- or
corrective-protective. They may be made of clear or absorptive filter glass or plastic. Also called
Safety Glasses.
Spindle—A rotating or fixed shaft-like member mounted in bearings and connected to the drive
mechanism. A device for holding the work piece or a cutting tool is mounted on one or both
ends.
Spreader—A curved piece of steel mounted behind a saw blade that prevents internal stresses
within wood from clamping down on the saw blade.
Sprocket—A wheel with suitably shaped and spaced cogs or teeth to engage with the links of a
chain.
Sprocket, Load—The hoist component that transmits motion to the load chain. Component is
sometimes called load wheel, load sheave or chain wheel.
Stairs—A series of steps and landings with three or more risers. Stairs may lead users from one
level or floor to another, to platforms, pits, boiler rooms or crossovers, or around machinery,
tanks and other equipment.
Standby Crane—A crane not in regular service but that is used occasionally or intermittently as
required.
Standing (Guy) Rope—A supporting rope that maintains a constant distance between the points
of attachment to the two (2) components connected by the rope.
 962                                                                   AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


Standpipe and Hose System—An arrangement of piping, valves, hose connections and allied
equipment installed in a facility so water can be discharged through a hose and nozzle for
immediate fire fighting by trained fire fighters or building occupants.
Stay-Open Valve—A valve that will remain in the open position and continue to deliver water
until manually closed (as part of an emergency shower or eyewash unit).
Step—The crosspiece of a ladder on which a person may step, also called a rung or a cleat. Also
means a combination of risers or treads that may be part of a stair.
Stroboscopic Effect—The potential for fluorescent lighting to create the appearance that
moving, rotating or vibrating objects are stationary.
Stop—A device to limit travel of a trolley or crane bridge or moving part of other equipment.
This device normally is attached to a fixed structure and does not have energy absorbing ability.
Stop Switch, Emergency—A manually or automatically operated switch to cut off electric
power independently of the regular operating controls.
Straddle Lift Truck—A general class of lift truck designed for picking up and hauling loads
between its outrigger arms.
Strand Laid Endless Sling-Mechanical Joint—A wire rope sling made endless from one
length of rope with the ends jointed by one or more metallic fittings.
Strand Laid Grommet-Hand Tucked—An endless wire rope sling made from one length of
strand wrapped six times around a core formed by hand-tucking the ends of the strand inside the
six wraps.
Strand Laid Rope—A wire rope made with strands (usually six or eight) wrapped around a
fiber core, wire strand core or independent wire rope core (IWRC).
Stripper—A device that aids the load chain in leaving the load sprocket.
Superstructure—The rotating upper frame structure of a crane or other machine and the
operating machinery mounted thereon.
Suspension Belt—Design of simple or compound straps that may be secured about the wearer‘s
body, usually at the waist or buttocks, as an independent work support. These are commonly
referred to as saddle belts or tree trimmer‘s belts. Suspension belts do not provide fall protection
and are not designed for use as a personal fall arrest system.
Swing—Rotation of the crane or other machine superstructure for movement of loads in a
horizontal direction about the axis of rotation.
Switch
– A control device for making, breaking or changing connections in an electric circuit.
– Any device for connecting two (2) or more continuous package conveyor lines.
– A mechanism that transfers a trolley, carrier or truck from one track to another at a converging
or diverging section.
Switch, Limit—A switch operated by some part or motion of a power-driven machine or
equipment to alter power to the machine. The purpose is generally to limit the travel of a
machine or equipment component.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                      963



Switch, Main—A switch controlling the entire power supplied to a system.
Switch, Track—A device with a section of track that can be moved to permit passage of a
carrier from an incoming track to one of various outgoing tracks.
Symbol—A letter, picture, figure or other character or mark (or a combination thereof) used to
identify a hazard.
System Safety Engineering Analysis—Evaluates and approves new operations previously
prohibited due to the perceived risks. A team of engineers (AFMC) conducts actual
demonstrations and analysis of the operation to validate overall risk assessment and recommend
actions. Past examples include hot pit refueling, integrated combat turn around (ICT) and
concurrent servicing.
Tag Line—A rope or cable used to prevent a load from swinging or rotating.
Tagout Device—A mishap prevention tag that is capable of being securely attached and that, to
protect personnel, forbids operation of an energy isolating device and identifies the applying
individual or authority who has control of the procedure.
Tail Stock—The adjustable or sliding heads of lathes.
Test load—The specific load applied in performance of the load test.
Thermoluminescent dosimeter (TLD)—A type of dosimeter that uses powdered or solid
phosphor materials (e.g., Li2B4O7, LiF, CaSO4) to record radiation exposures. When heated, the
phosphor emits light proportional to the amount of radiation energy absorbed. This type of
dosimeter consists of a card and a holder (badge).
Tiering—The process of placing one load on or above another.
Toeboard—A barrier, secured along the sides and ends of a platform, to prevent material falling
from the scaffold platform.
Tongue Guard—See peripheral Guard.
Toxic Material—A material that causes an adverse physiological response in the human body.
Track Opener—Sections of monorail track arranged to lift or swing out of the line of track to
make an opening through which a door may pass.
Traffic Area—Any area designed or designated for routine traffic, i.e., streets/roads, parking
lots, driveways, flight line, aircraft taxiways, aircraft aprons and aircraft ramps.
Training—The process of making an individual proficient through instruction and hands-on
practice in the operation, equipment or processes expected to be used in performing assigned
duties.
Tread Plate—A plate of suitable size fitted between conveyor rollers to permit persons to use as
a working or walking surface or safety guard.
Tread Width—The horizontal distance from the front to the back of tread including nosing.
Tread—The horizontal part of a step.
Trolley
 964                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


– An assembly of wheels, bearings and brackets used for supporting and moving suspended
loads or for carrying load connecting and conveying elements such as chain, cable or other
linkage.
– The unit carrying the hoist mechanism that travels on overhead bridge rails.
– A frame on which a pair of load carrying wheels is mounted.
Trolley Conveyor—A series of trolleys supported from or within an overhead track and
connected by endless propelling means such as chain, cable or other linkage with loads usually
suspended from the trolleys.
Truck
– An assembly that supports another unit in either a fixed or adjustable position and that provides
mobility.
– A wheeled vehicle that can be detached from a conveying medium (usually chain) and pushed
by hand.
Truck Crane—A crane consisting of a rotating superstructure with power plant, operating
machinery and boom mounted on an automotive truck equipped with a power plant for travel.
Some variations use a single engine in the truck which also powers the superstructure, or a single
engine in the superstructure which also powers the truck.
Tube and Coupler Scaffold—A scaffold that is made up of tubing used as posts, bearers,
braces, ties, runners, base supporting posts and uprights that serve to join the various members.
This type of scaffold is normally used in fixed locations.
Tubular Welded Frame Scaffold—A sectional, panel or frame metal scaffold mainly built of
prefabricated welded sections. This scaffold consists of posts and bearers with connecting parts
and is braced with diagonal or cross braces.
Tubular Welded Sectional Folding Scaffold—A sectional, folding metal scaffold either
designed as a ladder frame or inside stairway. It is built of prefabricated welded sections, which
consist of end frames, platform frame, inside inclined stairway frame and braces or hinged
connected diagonal and horizontal braces. It can be folded into a flat package when the scaffold
is not in use.
Turntable—A track device with a movable liner frame containing a straight section of track
which can be rotated with a load carrier on it to align the section of track with other tracks for the
transfer of carriers from one track to another.
Two-Blocking—When the lower load block comes in contact with the upper load block or boom
point can cause lifting cable to break and drop load.
Unattended Vehicle—An unattended vehicle is a vehicle, running or not, that the operator is not
physically in or in a reasonable vicinity of the vehicle and could not exercise or gain control
over.
Valve Protection Cap—A rigid removable cover provided for cylinder/container valve
protection during handling, transportation and storage.
Vehicle—Any carrier that is not manually propelled.
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                       965



Vertical Reciprocating Conveyor—A reciprocating power or gravity actuated unit that receives
only inanimate objects on a track, roller conveyor or power conveyor forming the bed of the
carrier and transmits these inanimate objects vertically from one elevation to another.
Vertical Tower—An aerial device designed to elevate a platform on a vertical axis.
Warehouse Tractor or Tug—An industrial vehicle designed to draw one or more non-powered
trailers.
Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit (AF Form 592)—The written authorization to perform
―hot work‖ operations such as riveting, welding, cutting, burning or heating that could provide a
source of ignition.
Wheel, Buffing—A wheel made of disks of felt, linen or canvas. The cutting surface is coated
with rouge, tripoli or other mildly abrasive substances.
Wheel, Inorganic—A wheel bonded by inorganic material such as clay, glass, porcelain, sodium
silicate, magnesium oxychloride or metal. Those bonded with ceramic materials are referred to
as vitrified bonded wheels.
Wheel, Organic—A wheel bonded by an organic material such as resin, rubber, shellac or other
similar bonding agent.
Wheel, Polishing—A wheel made of wood covered with leather or disks of canvas or similar
material stitched together with a coat of emery or other abrasive glued to the wheel.
Wheel, Reinforced—A type of organic wheel that has webbing, fabric or filament that provides
resistance to complete breakage if the wheel becomes cracked or damaged.
Will—Is also used to indicate a mandatory requirement in addition is used to express a
declaration of intent, probability or determination.
Wire Brush—A wheel made of varying protruding wires of different thickness, all attached to a
central core.
Wire Rope—A rope composed of steel wires, strands and a core. The individual wires are cold
drawn to predetermined size and breaking loads according to use. They are then helically laid or
formed around the core, which may be sisal or synthetic fiber, a metallic strand or an
independent wire rope. The size, number and arrangement of wires; and the number of strands,
the lay and the type of core in a rope are determined by the service for which the rope is to be
used.
Work Level—A raised platform, used for supporting workers and their materials, made up of
the necessary vertical, horizontal and diagonal braces, guardrails and ladder for access to the
work platform.
Written Permit-Required Confined Space Program—The overall written program the
organization develops for controlling, and where appropriate, for protecting workers from permit
space hazards and for regulating entries into permit spaces. It establishes procedures for all
permit-required confined spaces within an organization.
 966                                                                    AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012


                                           Attachment 2
  MINIMUM MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS FOR AERIAL LIFT TRAINING AND
                       TRAINING PLANS

Note: While these requirements relate to aerial lifts, a similar level of detail is required when
developing training plans and training personnel on other powered or potentially hazardous
equipment.
A2.1. All training will be accomplished by a qualified instructor with knowledge and experience
on all lifts for which he/she is conducting training and has been trained as an instructor.
A2.2. Training (model specific) will be documented on an AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and
Health Record, or an equivalent authorized computerized information management system.
A2.3. Aerial lift training plans will include, as a minimum, the following requirements:
   A2.3.1. Model specific classroom and proficiency training covering all machine functions,
   including, but not limited to, the following (if so equipped): self leveling platform, oscillating
   and extendible/retractable axles, travel alarm, motion alarm, beacon, tilt alarm, soft alarm,
   horn, boom limit switch, variable speed control knob (all speeds), drive enable switch, foot
   switch (deadman switch) emergency stop button, rated workload, unrestricted rated
   workload, stick booms vs. articulating boom, etc.
   A2.3.2. The purpose, use and location of all manuals (ANSI Standards, Operator Safety
   Manual, Manufacturer‘s Operator Manual and Technical Order, if applicable).
   A2.3.3. Purpose and function of all controls (platform and ground controls).
   A2.3.4. All safety devices, alarms, limit switches and operating characteristics specific to the
   lift (how they work, what they do, when to use them, how to inspect them to ensure they are
   working properly and the hazards and consequences of by-passing or ignoring safety
   devices).
   A2.3.5. Hazardous location requirements, if applicable.
   A2.3.6. Pre-start inspection of the lift.
   A2.3.7. Recognition of hazards associated with operation of the lift.
   A2.3.8. Responsibilities associated with problems or malfunctions affecting operation of the
   lift, including documentation of deficiencies and process for removing lift from service.
   A2.3.9. Factors affecting lift stability.
   A2.3.10. Workplace/site inspection (look for hazards like uneven floors or drop offs, floor
   and overhead obstructions, etc.).
   A2.3.11. The purpose of placards and decals (what they are and what they mean).
   A2.3.12. Safety rules applicable to the task (such as overhead obstructions, electrical lines,
   working around other equipment, etc.).
   A2.3.13. The use of outriggers, stabilizers or oscillating or retractable/extendible axles (how
   they work, what they do, when to use them and how to inspect them to ensure they are
   working properly).
AFI91-203 15 JUNE 2012                                                                        967



   A2.3.14. Use of removable railings, guards and attachments, including how to ensure they
   are properly secured when in use
   A2.3.15. Fuel system, if applicable.
   A2.3.16. Battery and charging requirements, if applicable.
   A2.3.17. Safety harness and type of lanyard required for use with the lift and appropriate
   attachment point location(s).
   A2.3.18. Spotter‘s responsibilities (emergency controls, procedures, and PPE requirements) .
   A2.3.19. Any other items affecting safe operation of the lift.
   A2.3.20. Hands on training covering all items above and actual lift operation under the
   direction of a qualified instructor. The trainee shall operate the aerial lift for a sufficient
   period of time to demonstrate proficiency with that specific model.
   A2.3.21. A written test will be administered by a qualified instructor to ensure the trainee
   understands all aspects of the aerial lift‘s operation. Passing score will be 85% correct.
A2.4. Additional requirements for aerial lifts:
   A2.4.1. Operator training will be documented for each specific model of lift a
   worker/supervisor is authorized to operate. A detailed lesson plan will be maintained within
   the organization receiving the training for each lift model that will be taught, including
   classes taught by contractors.
   A2.4.2. Operators will be familiar with the TO(s) and/or manufacturer‘s manual(s) for the
   lift being operated and know where they are stored on the lift.
   A2.4.3. Supervisor will only permit qualified and authorized personnel to operate or work
   from aerial lifts.
   A2.4.4. Problems or malfunctions that affect safe operation of the aerial lift will be repaired
   prior using the lift.
   A2.4.5. Only instructors or supervisors who are qualified to operate aerial lifts can task
   certify workers on aerial lifts, and only for aerial lifts that they are qualified to operate.
   A2.4.6. Each aerial lift will have an AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and
   Trouble Report with pertinent manufacturers inspection/test information added. The AF
   Form 1800 shall be used to inspect/test the aerial lift prior to lift operation. Coordinate the
   AF Form 1800 with the installation Ground Safety office.
   A2.4.7. All inspections will be documented and maintained for at least one year, or as
   required by applicable TO or other guidance.
A2.5. All aerial lift operators will have an AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency, or
equivalent document, which identifies all lifts they are authorized to operate. The AF Form 483
(or equivalent document) will be signed by a qualified instructor or a qualified supervisor as
defined in paragraph 4e above.
