BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 99-107
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             17 JANUARY 2013

                                                                            Test and Evaluation

                                                                        TEST PILOT SCHOOL



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFMC/A3F                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/TEP
                                                                           (Col Derek A. Abeyta)
Supersedes:   AFI 99-107,                                                              Pages: 38
              23 September 2002


This instruction implements AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process. It defines authority for
the US Air Force Test Pilot School (TPS). It outlines the supervision, operation, and
administration of the school's mission, course instruction, eligibility requirements, application
procedures, and selection process. This instruction also addresses English language requirements
for allied students, Flying Evaluation Board (FEB) procedures, and faculty board procedures.
The reporting requirements in this instruction are exempt from licensing in accordance with
(IAW) paragraphs 2.11.5, 2.11.10, and 2.11.12 of AFI 33-324, The Information Collections And
Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force
Information Collections. Submit recommended changes via AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, to HQ AFMC/A3 with an information copy to HQ USAF/TEP.

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force. Privacy Act system of records
notice F036 AF PC C, Military Personnel Records System, apply. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air Force Records
Information          Management           Systems          (AFRIMS)            located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

These instructions apply to HQ Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) and HQ Air Force Materiel
Command (AFMC) which support the TPS and its mission. These instructions also apply to
applicants from Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units.
 2                                                                                        AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision introduces a new Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) curriculum as part of the
Combat Systems Officer (CSO) classification; clarifies the academic eligibility requirements
(paragraph 1.2.1); increases the minimum Grade Point Average (GPA) requirement for
applicants (Table 1); changes Eligibility Requirements for Curricula (Table 1); reduces the
allowable time in service for Pilot/CSO applicants (Table 1); revises and clarifies administrative
responsibilities (Section 2); removes the requirement for a triennial curriculum review and
creates the requirement for a semi-annual curriculum planning council (paragraph 2.6.5);
modifies the selection process to include an interview and flight evaluation for pilot applicants
(paragraph 3.3); clarifies required training before reporting (paragraph 4.2); changes the active
duty service commitment for graduates (paragraph 7.1); further specifies disenrollment
procedures (paragraph 10); simplifies the flying experience resume (Attachment 2); provides
additional guidance for training reports (Attachment 5); clarifies various roles of responsibility
and terminology throughout this instruction; and incorporates administrative changes where
required.

       1.      TPS Vision and Mission. ....................................................................................           3
Table 1.       Eligibility Requirements for Curricula. ...............................................................                4
Figure 1.      Acceptable Physical Science Degrees. ................................................................                  5
Figure 2.      Course Requirements For Physical Science Degrees. ..........................................                           6
       2.      Administrative Responsibilities. .........................................................................             8
       3.      Application Procedures. ......................................................................................        12
       4.      Assigning Officers to the TPS. ............................................................................           16
Table 2.       Required Training Before Reporting. ..................................................................                17
       5.      Educating and Training Non-USAF Individuals. .................................................                        18
       6.      TPS Graduation Awards. ....................................................................................           20
       7.      Assigning Graduates. ..........................................................................................       21
       8.      USNTPS Program. .............................................................................................         21
       9.      Foreign TPS. ......................................................................................................   21
       10.     Failure to Meet School Standards and Disenrollment. .........................................                         21
Figure 3.      Mandatory Comments on AF Form 475 for DOR. ..............................................                             24
       11.     AFIT and TPS Doctoral (Ph. ...............................................................................            25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       27

Attachment 2—FORMAT FOR RESUME OF FLYING EXPERIENCE                                                                                  32

Attachment 3—ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE COMMITMENT                                                                                          33

Attachment 4—ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE COMMITMENT                                                                                          34
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                        3


Attachment 5—TPS TRAINING REPORT (TR) FACT SHEET                                                35

Attachment 6—SAMPLE “OPPORTUNITY TO REQUEST AN FEB WAIVER”
             REQUEST                                                                            36

Attachment 7—SAMPLE STUDENT REMOVAL FROM TPS NOTIFICATION                                       37

Attachment 8—SAMPLE STUDENT REQUEST FOR FEB WAIVER                                              38


1. TPS Vision and Mission. The Vision of TPS is to be the world’s premiere educational and
training center of excellence for theoretical and applied flight test engineering. The Mission of
TPS is to produce highly-adaptive critical-thinking flight test professionals to lead and conduct
full-spectrum test and evaluation (T&E) of aerospace weapon systems. Experimental test
personnel provide early user input to the design of systems during the development cycle. To aid
the Air Force in the development, acquisition, and sustainment of operationally capable military
systems to support the war-fighter, the TPS educates and trains pilots, combat systems officers
(rated navigators, electronic warfare officers, and weapon system operators), RPA pilots, and
engineers to test and evaluate all manner of military systems. These tests yield technical
information on the safety, security, military utility, and mission suitability of systems and
subsystems. In addition to operational capabilities, experimental test aviators determine: flight
characteristics; performance; stability and control; mission capability; and mission suitability.
TPS is the center of expertise for Air Force developmental test and evaluation (DT&E) and flight
test theory and techniques. TPS also gives school and test center professionals a forum in which
to exchange ideas and information.
   1.1. Courses of Instruction: The school provides a 48-week, 50 semester hour graduate-
   level course of instruction. Two classes are taught annually, the ―A‖ class starting in January
   and graduating in December, and the ―B‖ class starting in July and graduating in June. The
   school also offers a number of short courses to support various levels of T&E education.
       1.1.1. The 48-week course consists of four closely related curricula: experimental test
       pilot; experimental test Combat Systems Officer (CSO); experimental Remotely Piloted
       Aircraft (RPA) pilot; and experimental flight test engineer. Together, these curricula
       educate selected personnel in the discipline of flight test engineering and conduct training
       in the latest methods of testing and evaluating aerospace vehicles and related systems.
       (See the Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements located at
       https://etca.randolph.af.mil for a description of curricula.) These curricula also provide
       some Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) equivalency.
       1.1.2. TPS is a Title-10 authorized Master’s Degree granting school affiliated with Air
       University (AU) which confers a Master of Science degree in Flight Test Engineering
       upon graduation. AU is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
       The course may also be recognized as an Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE)
       equivalent program, and graduates may request in-resident IDE credit following
       graduation from TPS on a case-by-case basis.
       1.1.3. TPS short course development is directed by HQ AFMC/A3 and supports all
       levels of DT&E and other T&E education and training requirements. Eligibility for these
       courses is determined by TPS and approved by HQ AFMC/A3. Major commands
 4                                                                  AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


        (MAJCOM) select individuals for short courses based on course eligibility and training
        needs. HQ AFMC/A3 is the final authority of TPS developed short course curriculum
        content. The TPS Commandant determines enrollment requirements and associated
        schedules.
     1.2. TPS Eligibility Requirements.
        1.2.1. All applicants must meet eligibility requirements before requesting admission (see
        Table 1). A Master of Science (MS) degree in any engineering field (without a Bachelor
        of Science (BS) Degree in Engineering) also qualifies. The guidance provided in
        paragraphs 1.2.1.3 through 1.2.1.6 should be used for considering eligibility of physical
        science degrees on a case-by-case basis. See paragraph 3.4 for information on requesting
        waivers to any eligibility requirements.

Table 1. Eligibility Requirements for Curricula.
 Curricula       Time in         Education           Experience (at class entry)        Physical   Clearance
               Service (at                                                              Qualifi-
               class entry)                                                              cation
                                                 Pilots on extended active duty
               Active:         BS in             (EAD) and not in suspended flying
               TAFCS           Engineering,      status. Minimum of 12 months as
               (Guard and      Mathematics,      an aircraft commander in a manned
               Reserve:        or Physics (see   Major Weapon System (MWS).
               TFCSD)          paragraph 1.2.1   Pilots must also be either qualified
                               for other         Instructor Pilots in their manned
                               acceptable        MWS or                                 Annual
Experimental   Fewer than 9
                               degrees and                                              Flying     Secret
Test Pilot     years and 6                           1. Single pilot MWS - at least
                               required                                                 Class II
               months                                   750 hours total time
                               remediation).
                               Minimum               2. Dual pilot MWS – at least
               (10 years and   grade point              1000 hours total time
               3 months for    average (GPA)
               helicopter                           Note: 250 hours of manned non
                               of 3.0 on a 4.0
               pilots)                              MWS time may be included in
                               scale                total time.


                                                 Combat Systems Officers must be
Experimental
               Fewer than 9                      qualified instructor CSOs in a         Annual
Test Combat
               years and 6     Same as above     MWS or have at least 500 hours         Flying     Secret
Systems
               months                            total time in their MWS. Total time    Class II
Officer
                                                 excludes student time.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                          5




                                                 RPA pilots must be a qualified
                                                instructor in their RPA MWS or
Experimental                                                                          Annual
                 Same as                        have at least 750 hours total time.
 Test RPA                       Same as above                                         Flying      Secret
                  above
   Pilot                                                                              Class II
                                                Note: 250 hours in a manned MWS
                                                may be included in the total time.



                                                On EAD with a minimum of 2
                                    Degree      years experience in one of the
                  Active:
                                 requirements   following AFSCs: 13XX, 14NX,
                  TAFCS                         21AX, 21CX, 21LX, 21MX, 33SX,
                                same as above
                (Guard and                      61SX, 62EX, or 63AX
Experimental                                                                          Annual
                 Reserve:
 Flight Test                     Technical                                             Flying     Secret
                 TFCSD)
  Engineer                     master’s degree (Civilians: minimum 2 years            Class III
                                  is highly    experience in T&E)
               Fewer than 8
                                   desired
                  years
                                               FAA flying certifications or
                                               military flying is highly desired
Short
                              (Eligibility is determined independently for each short course)
Courses
Note: The term combat systems officer includes rated navigators, electronic warfare officers, and
weapon system operators.
Note: All acronyms in this table are listed in Attachment 1.
           1.2.1.1. A BS degree in Engineering, Mathematics, Physics, or a physical science
           degree must specifically state ―Engineering‖, ―Mathematics‖, ―Physics‖, or a
           ―Physical Science‖. Other titles such as ―Aircraft Engineering Technology‖,
           ―Aerospace Science‖, ―Aerospace or Space Operations‖ or any other title using the
           words ―Technology‖ or ―Aircraft‖ are not acceptable.
           1.2.1.2. A Bachelor of Arts degree in Mathematics or a physical science degree does
           not qualify.
           1.2.1.3. If the BS or MS degree is in a physical science, eligibility must be
           questioned. Acceptable physical science degrees may include (but are not limited to)
           the degrees listed in Figure 1.

Figure 1. Acceptable Physical Science Degrees.
               Astronomy                                             Mining
               Chemistry                                             Oceanography
               Computer Science                                      Operations Research
               Geology                                                      Physical Science

               Metallurgy                                            Statistics
 6                                                             AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


            Meteorology                                                 Systems     Engineering
            Management

          1.2.1.4. If the applicant’s degree is in a physical science, additional technical course
          requirements must be satisfied to become eligible. As a minimum, the applicant must
          have satisfactorily completed with a ―B‖ average or higher all six of the mandatory
          courses and have satisfactorily completed with a ―B‖ average or higher at least four
          courses from the desired course list. For the purposes of determining applicant
          eligibility, a ―B‖ average is considered to be 3.0 average on a 4.0 = ―A‖ scale.
          Mandatory and desired courses are presented in Figure 2.

Figure 2. Course Requirements For Physical Science Degrees.
           Mandatory Courses (must have all 6 courses indicated below)
           Calculus I
           Calculus II
           Differential Equations
           Physics I (classical mechanical)
           Physics II (classical electro-optical)
           Probability and Statistics

           Desired Courses (must have at least 4 courses from those listed below)
           Statics                                      Aerodynamics
           Dynamics                                            Fluid Mechanics
           Vectors and Matrices                         Thermodynamics
           Linear Algebra                                      Aircraft Stability and Control
           Strength of Materials                        Linear Control Theory
           Structures                                          Electrical/Electronic Circuit
           Theory
           Mechanical Vibrations
           Probability & Statistics (may be Design of Experiments)
           Instrumentation/lab/data acquisition or processing
          1.2.1.5. To be considered eligible, prospective applicant transcripts must reflect all
          six mandatory courses satisfactorily completed and at least four courses satisfactorily
          completed from the desired course list (Note: desired courses are not required to be
          from four different areas; several courses may belong to one desired course sequence,
          e.g., Aircraft Structures I, Aircraft Structures II, or Linear Control Theory I, Linear
          Control Theory II.)
          1.2.1.6. To ensure proper evaluation of academic eligibility, coordination will be
          accomplished between HQ AFPC/DPAOT3, HQ AFMC/A3, and USAF TPS/CT on
          all applications which are not unequivocally qualified by Table 1 (i.e., BS in
          Engineering, Mathematics, or Physics with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale), or
          any application where there is uncertainty.
          1.2.1.7. If there are any questions, contact the Chief of Student Services at DSN 527-
          9933 (commercial: 661-277-9933), or 527-3000 (commercial: 661-277-3000).
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                     7


     1.2.2. Pilot, CSO, and RPA pilot applicants must have a current annual flying Class II
     physical on file. If applicable, they may apply before they meet the minimum flying hour
     requirements if they will have the minimum flying time before the beginning of class.
     1.2.3. Experimental flight test engineer applicants must have an annual flying Class III
     physical on file.
     1.2.4. Federal Service civilian personnel with a valid experimental flight test mission
     may apply for the Experimental Flight Test Engineer Course. Civilian applicants must
     have a current annual flying Class III physical on file. Reference 5.2.1 and 5.2.2 for
     responsibilities of the organization of the civilian applicant.
     1.2.5. Security clearances.
        1.2.5.1. US applicants must possess at least a SECRET clearance. SECRET
        clearances must be no older than five years from the projected TPS graduation date to
        allow access to Special Access Programs (SAP) and upgrade to TOP SECRET while
        attending TPS.
        1.2.5.2. International students require a SECRET clearance. International applicants
        interested in applying to TPS should contact Air Force Security Assistance Training
        (AFSAT) through their host nation government as described in paragraph 5.2.3
        AFSAT defers to SAF/IA for prioritization of requirements if there are more
        requirements than quotas available for international students.
        1.2.5.3. TPS staff members, as identified by the USAF TPS/CC, will hold TOP
        SECRET clearances.
     1.2.6. AFIT graduates serving in an AFIT Directed Duty Assignment (DDA) may apply
     for TPS if they meet all of the following criteria:
        1.2.6.1. One year in an advanced academic degree (AAD) position prior to TPS class
        start date.
        1.2.6.2. Release by member’s current commander through the Commander’s
        Involvement Program (CIP) with MAJCOM concurrence. Every possible
        consideration should be granted to the member in their last year of eligibility.
     1.2.7. AFIT students may apply for TPS if they meet all of the following criteria:
        1.2.7.1. Eligibility requirements stated in Table 1
        1.2.7.2. AFIT graduation date must align closely with TPS class start date. AFIT
        students graduating more than sixty days prior to the start of the next TPS class will
        not be permitted to apply. TPS classes start in the July and the following January after
        each TPS board.
        1.2.7.3. Release by member’s DDA follow-on commander through the CIP with
        MAJCOM concurrence. Every possible consideration should be granted the member
        in their last year of eligibility.
     1.2.8. AFIT and USAF Academy faculty may compete only if released by the owner of
     the AAD faculty billet for which they were sponsored.
 8                                                                   AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


         1.2.9. All officers released to TPS from their AAD program prior to completion must (if
         selected) be assigned to the appropriate AAD coded position for their degree to fulfill
         their AFIT DDA upon completion of TPS.
         1.2.10. AFRC/ANG officers may apply if they meet the requirements of Table 1 and the
         following:
             1.2.10.1. Use the Total Federal Commission Service Date (TFCSD) in place of the
             Total Active Federal Commission Service (TAFCS) date for computation of time in
             service limits.
             1.2.10.2. To establish eligibility to compete, applicants must submit proof of
             eligibility to return to and remain on active duty for the entire Active Duty Service
             Commitment (ADSC) period from HQ AFPC/DPSIPR with their application
             package. If selected, AFRC/ANG officers shall return to and remain on active duty
             for the full period of the TPS ADSC.
         1.2.11. Eligibility for short courses is determined individually for each course.
     1.3. Joint AFIT and TPS Program. Air Force officers eligible for TPS can volunteer for a
     joint AFIT and TPS program leading to a MS in Aeronautical or Electrical Engineering. The
     selected officers enter AFIT in September for a special program, followed by entering the
     regular TPS curriculum in January, 15 months later. AFIT graduate courses stress aircraft
     and system analysis, design, and development. In TPS, the student develops a comprehensive
     test program using test aircraft and facilities to gather essential data for a thesis, which is then
     completed and defended within 3 months of graduation from TPS.
     1.4. Bars to Eligibility.
         1.4.1. Officers eliminated from any Air Force or military formal flying training program
         in their present rated category are ineligible for TPS.
         1.4.2. Navigators eliminated from Air Force Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
         (SUPT) and engineers eliminated from SUPT or Specialized Undergraduate Navigator
         Training (SUNT) are eligible, unless they left these programs by drop on request (DOR).
         1.4.3. Applicants who did not finish any US Government-funded, full-time education or
         training program due to substandard performance or DOR (except as noted above).
         1.4.4. AFMC/A3 can eliminate any candidate who shows indications of substandard
         performance after becoming a TPS candidate, but before the class start date.
2. Administrative Responsibilities.
     2.1. HQ AFPC/DPAOT3.
         2.1.1. Maintains applications.
         2.1.2. Confirms candidate eligibility and forwards ineligible candidates to HQ
         AFMC/A3 for waiver consideration (see Table 1).
         2.1.3. Convenes a TPS Selection Board annually to select Air Force officers and civilian
         employees. Convenes supplemental Records Boards as necessary.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                     9


     2.1.4. Publishes and disseminates the selection notification message following approval
     of the student selections by HQ AFMC/A3.
     2.1.5. Enters Joint AFIT and TPS student selection information into the Education
     Management System database immediately following the annual selection board
     notification process.
     2.1.6. Assigns approved Air Force pilots, CSOs, and engineers to TPS.
     2.1.7. Coordinates special non-flying training for appointed students en route to TPS.
     2.1.8. Coordinates special non-flying training for TPS graduates en route to their next
     assignment.
  2.2. HQ AFMC/CC.
     2.2.1. Appoints the TPS Commandant. (This authority may be delegated no lower than
     AFTC/CC.)
     2.2.2. Is the final approval authority for all FEB actions IAW AFI 11-402, Aviation and
     Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges. (This authority may be delegated
     no lower than HQ AFMC/A3.)
  2.3. HQ AFMC/A3.
     2.3.1. Ensures TPS curricular activities are consistent with HQ USAF policies and
     instructions.
     2.3.2. Organizes and chairs an annual TPS Advisory Board. Selects delegates from user
     MAJCOMs, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, Air Force Test Center, and
     educational organizations to review TPS curricula. Provides an Executive Summary of
     the TPS Advisory Board Proceedings to AFMC/CC and AU/CC for review
     2.3.3. Provides curriculum direction to USAF TPS/CC. Direction includes the latest
     flight test philosophy and methods.
     2.3.4. Directs the development of short courses and other curricula to meet DoD and AF
     T&E education and training needs.
     2.3.5. Chairs the student TPS selection board or may delegate this responsibility,
     normally to a general officer TPS graduate.
     2.3.6. Appoints members to the TPS selection board.
     2.3.7. Final authority on student selections for TPS class enrollment. Forwards results to
     HQ AFPC/DPAOT3 for publication.
     2.3.8. Appoints an HQ AFMC/A3 functional manager for TPS policy and selection
     processes.
     2.3.9. Requests and validates field requirements for TPS graduates. Provides validated
     requirements to the TPS Commandant, enabling graduating classes to provide their
     preferences for available assignments.
     2.3.10. Mediates between TPS, gaining test units, and AFPC as necessary to finalize
     assignments for the graduating classes.
10                                                               AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


     2.4. AFTC/CC.
        2.4.1. Responsible for TPS mission execution and resources (facilities, manpower,
        budget, aircraft, student housing, etc.). Delegates operational control of TPS to the 412th
        Test Wing.
        2.4.2. Designates the FEB Convening Authority IAW AFI 11-402 and this AFI.
        (AFTC/CC typically designates 412 TW/CC, but may designate another.)
        2.4.3. Budgets and funds the tuition costs of Air Force students, Air Force students
        attending foreign test pilot schools, and the Air Force cost of foreign students from
        participating countries attending TPS.
        2.4.4. Budgets and provides reciprocal qualitative evaluation flying opportunities in
        AFTC aircraft to visiting students/faculty of affiliated test pilot schools and
        representatives of foreign flight test centers.
        2.4.5. Appoints members to the Comprehensive Candidate Evaluation Program (CCEP)
        interview panel.
        2.4.6. Reviews and determines final approval/disapproval of TPS Academic Evaluation
        Board (AEB) recommendations for students considered or recommended for academic
        elimination. Provides an information copy of final results to AFMC/A3.
     2.5. 412 TW/CC.
        2.5.1. Supervises and exercises operational control over TPS (exclusive of curricular
        control).
        2.5.2. Resolves any resource conflicts between 412 OG test mission requirements and
        TPS curricular requirements as necessary (aircraft availability, flying hours, range time,
        etc.).
        2.5.3. Convenes FEBs IAW AFI 11-402 and this AFI, unless AFTC/CC has designated
        another convening authority.
     2.6. USAF TPS/CC (Commandant).
        2.6.1. Operates TPS by overseeing all flying activities, academic instruction, budgeting,
        and school administration. Assures all processes are in place for the effective
        administration and orderly conduct of TPS.
        2.6.2. Executes the TPS curricula consistent with TPS Advisory Board guidance,
        principles of the Department of Education, and the accrediting body of Air University.
        May waive individual curriculum events based upon resource availability or student
        status.
        2.6.3. Coordinates directly with HQ AMFC/A3 on curricular affairs. Develops short
        courses and other curricula per requirements from HQ AFMC/A3.
        2.6.4. Prepares and presents topical information briefs to the annual TPS Advisory
        Board.
        2.6.5. Approves the attendance of prospective Allied students to TPS.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                  11


     2.6.6. Coordinates with AFMC/A3 and AFPC/DPAOT3 to fill enrollment vacancies
     from the approved list of alternates as required.
     2.6.7. Convenes a semi-annual Curriculum Planning Council (CPC) to review and revise
     TPS curricula in response to internal and external feedback. The CPC is chaired by the
     TPS Technical Director and comprised of the TPS deputy commandant, division chiefs,
     master instructors, and chief test pilot as its voting membership. Provides a memo to HQ
     AFMC/A3 for approval of proposed changes to the curriculum.
     2.6.8. Maintains affiliate relationships with AU and other organizations, as required.
     Reviews, and if necessary, updates Memorandums of Agreement (MOA) on a bi-annual
     basis. Coordinates directly with AU/CF regarding graduate affiliate affairs and
     responsibilities.
     2.6.9. Assigns final grades for academic curriculum courses and forwards them directly
     to AU for archiving and the creation of graduate transcripts.
     2.6.10. Completes an AF Form 475, Education/Training Report for each TPS student
     and forwards a file copy to AU for archiving. In addition to the AF Form 475, completes
     a Fitness Report for each US Navy and US Marine officer. Adds the course to the
     professional specialty course list for each Air Force graduate. Provides documentation of
     course completion to allow proper credit for APDP equivalencies.
     2.6.11. Suspends students when they fail to meet curriculum standards, become
     medically unqualified, or request elimination.
     2.6.12. When required, initiates the FEB process.
     2.6.13. When required, convenes an AEB to evaluate students for academic dismissal.
     Forwards AEB recommendations to AFTC/CC for final review and approval.
     2.6.14. When warranted, cancels an individual’s student status for gross misconduct, or
     if the AEB or FEB recommendation to eliminate a student is approved.
  2.7. AU Commander.
     2.7.1. Maintains an affiliate relationship with TPS IAW the AU/USAF TPS MOA and
     this AFI. Reviews, and if necessary updates, the AU/USAF TPS MOA on a bi-annual
     basis. Coordinates with the USAF TPS/CC regarding graduate affiliate affairs and
     responsibilities.
     2.7.2. Confers diplomas for the Master of Science in Flight Test Engineering (MSFTE)
     upon graduates of TPS per the authority granted under USC Title 10, Sec 9317.
     2.7.3. Manages TPS student transcripts based on course grade inputs from TPS.
     Maintains a graduate repository of transcripts and Education/Training Reports for each
     student and issues official transcripts as requested.
     2.7.4. Provides services, oversight and direction necessary for TPS to satisfy and
     maintain Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) accreditation
     requirements. Provides representation and assistance to TPS during SACS accreditation
     visits.
 12                                                                   AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


         2.7.5. Reviews annual TPS Advisory Board Executive Summary and integrates TPS into
         the AU Board of Visitors oversight.
3. Application Procedures.
      3.1. Preparing Applications.
         3.1.1. All applicants will prepare AF Form 1711, USAF Test Pilot School Application.
         The narrative section of AF Form 1711 (limited to space provided) will be prepared in
         bullet format with a 12 (or form default) pitch font. The following must be
         included/attached as appropriate:
             3.1.1.1. Certified transcripts of all college credits.
             3.1.1.2. A resume of flying experience, if applicable (see Attachment 2 for format).
             3.1.1.3. A copy of GRE scores, if applying for the AFIT/USAF TPS program.
             AFIT/USAF TPS volunteers are encouraged to establish AFIT eligibility prior to
             submitting the TPS application by following the AFIT application procedures at
             http://www.afit.edu. Once established, AFIT Master’s eligibility letters are
             permanently valid.
             3.1.1.4. If a volunteer for non-English-speaking foreign TPS, applicants are
             encouraged to take the Defense Language Aptitude Board (DLAB) to establish
             general aptitude for foreign languages, and the DLPT for any foreign languages
             already in their repertoire.
             3.1.1.5. Contact information of unit commander for TPS Selection Board purposes.
         3.1.2. Air Force pilot and CSO applicants also:
             3.1.2.1. Attach a certified true copy of AF Form 942, Record of Evaluation.
             3.1.2.2. Attach copies of all AF Forms 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, from
             their Flight Evaluation Folders.
             3.1.2.3. Attach a copy of Flying History Report from the Aviation Resource
             Management System (ARMS). This report can be obtained from the local Host
             Aviation Resource Management (HARM) office.
             3.1.2.4. Include a summary of operational flying experience in the narrative section
             of the AF Form 1711 (limited to space provided), including:
                 3.1.2.4.1. Significant flying experience and activities.
                 3.1.2.4.2. Professional accomplishments and honors.
                 3.1.2.4.3. Engineering-related activities.
                 3.1.2.4.4. Reason(s) the applicant wants to be a test pilot, test CSO, or test RPA
                 pilot.
                 3.1.2.4.5. Career goals in flight testing and acquisition.
         3.1.3. Experimental flight test engineer applicants will also include a narrative on AF
         Form 1711 (limited to space provided) that summarizes:
             3.1.3.1. Technical experience.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                     13


        3.1.3.2. Test experience.
        3.1.3.3. Operational experience.
        3.1.3.4. Engineering-related activities.
        3.1.3.5. Professional accomplishments and honors.
        3.1.3.6. Career goals in flight testing and acquisition.
     3.1.4. Civilian test engineer applicants also:
        3.1.4.1. Provide copies of all performance evaluations.
        3.1.4.2. Include a narrative on AF Form 1711 (limited to space provided) that
        summarizes:
            3.1.4.2.1. Technical experience.
            3.1.4.2.2. Test experience.
            3.1.4.2.3. Engineering-related activities.
            3.1.4.2.4. Professional accomplishments and honors.
            3.1.4.2.5. Career goals in flight testing and acquisition.
     3.1.5. Experimental flight test engineer applicants (military and civilian) are required to
     undergo a flying Class III physical prior to the TPS selection board. Any medical
     conditions requiring a waiver will be adjudicated and processed by the 95 MDG/SGP
     (Flight Surgeon's office) prior to the TPS selection board. Submit a copy of the most
     recent SF 88, Report of Medical Examination, and AF Form 1042, Medical
     Recommendations for Flying or Special Operational Duty, along with the application. If
     a waiver is requested, copies of both the SF 88 and the individual's SF 93, Report of
     Medical History, must be submitted along with supporting documentation (as applicable)
     to the 95 MDG/SGP at Edwards AFB.
     3.1.6. Submit the AF Form 1711 with all attachments to Special Flying Programs
     Section, HQ AFPC/DPAOT3, 550 C Street West, Suite 31, Randolph AFB TX 78150-
     4733.
  3.2. AF Form 1712, Special Flying Program Recommendation.
     3.2.1. All applicants (except those from allied nations) will obtain at least one completed
     AF Form 1712 from their immediate supervisor. Applicants may have two additional AF
     Forms 1712 prepared by officers who know the applicant's flying and technical abilities
     firsthand (maximum of three AF Forms 1712 may be submitted). AF Form 1712 will be
     prepared in bullet format with a 12 (or form default) point font or the narrative may be
     handwritten.
     3.2.2. Pilot and CSO pilot applicants must have their immediate supervisor complete this
     form. The supervisor should know the applicant's flying ability, technical ability, and
     professional competence firsthand. In filling out the form, do not exceed the limits of
     space provided for remarks, nor attach documents (such as separate letters of
     recommendation). If the applicant's current supervisor does not know the applicant's
     flying ability firsthand, an officer who supervised the applicant in a rated position during
14                                                             AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


     the previous three years can give one of the two additional recommendations. However,
     no more than three recommendations may be submitted for each applicant. These
     recommendations must minimally contain an evaluation of the officer's:
        3.2.2.1. Piloting and/or combat systems operating skills, as applicable.
        3.2.2.2. Crew member performance.
        3.2.2.3. Experience.
        3.2.2.4. Technical competence.
        3.2.2.5. Judgment, patience, adaptability, and responsibility.
        3.2.2.6. Ability to analyze and solve problems.
        3.2.2.7. Ability to work in a group.
        3.2.2.8. Desire and ability to be proactive and take initiative.
        3.2.2.9. Interest in research or experimental test work.
        3.2.2.10. Ability, after further training, to decide issues of development, testing, and
        suitability for future Air Force aerospace systems.
        3.2.2.11. Ability and desire to be a leader in Air Force development and Acquisition
        Corps.
     3.2.3. Experimental flight test engineer applicants must have their immediate supervisor
     (civilian or military) fill out the form. The immediate supervisor must know the
     applicant's technical ability and professional competence firsthand. The recommendation
     should include information on the applicant's:
        3.2.3.1. Experience and technical and professional competence.
        3.2.3.2. Energy, determination, and effectiveness in assigned duties.
        3.2.3.3. Judgment, patience, adaptability, and responsibility.
        3.2.3.4. Ability to analyze and solve problems.
        3.2.3.5. Ability to work in a group.
        3.2.3.6. Ability and desire to be proactive and take initiative.
        3.2.3.7. Interest in research or experimental test work.
        3.2.3.8. Ability, after further training, to decide issues of development, testing, and
        suitability for future Air Force aerospace systems.
        3.2.3.9. Ability and desire to be a leader in Air Force development and Acquisition
        Corps.
     3.2.4. Recommending officers submit AF Form 1712 by separate correspondence
     directly to Special Flying Programs Section, HQ AFPC/DPAOT3, 550 C Street West,
     Suite 31, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4733. A maximum of three recommendations
     (immediate supervisor plus two others) remain in the applicant's folder for selection
     board consideration. These recommendations may be used on subsequent boards if they
     are still applicable and the officer has not changed supervisors.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                     15


     3.2.5. Because applicants from allied nations are selected to attend TPS via a competitive
     process within their own government, they do not require an AF Form 1712.
  3.3. Selection Process.
     3.3.1. HQ AFPC/DPAOT3 must receive the entire application package no later than 45
     days before the TPS Selection Board convenes. The board will not consider late
     applications but will hold them for future boards if the officer remains eligible. A HQ
     AFPC colonel will be president of the TPS Selection Board. However, AFMC/A3 (or
     appointed representative) will chair the board. At least a majority of the board members
     must be TPS graduates (majors or lieutenant colonels).
     3.3.2. HQ AFMC/A3 selects TPS Selection Board members. Board members should be
     standing flight test squadron or test squadron commanders to ensure the most qualified
     applicants are selected and that their follow-on assignments meet future flight test
     requirements. TPS Selection Board observers may include representatives from the US
     Naval TPS (USNTPS), operational MAJCOMs (Squadron Commander or Operations
     Officer desired), Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC), and
     program management leaders as determined by HQ AFMC/A3.
         3.3.2.1. The TPS Selection Board evaluates Test Pilot, Flight Test Engineer, RPA
         pilot, and CSO student candidates based on their technical and flying credentials,
         career performance, academic performance, recommendations, and leadership
         potential.
         3.3.2.2. The TPS Selection Board meets at HQ AFPC each year, between July and
         November, to select a pool of student candidates (Primary and Alternate) for the TPS
         classes starting in the following July and the January. Select pilot student candidates
         may continue their selection process at the TPS as specified in paragraph 3.3.3.
         3.3.2.3. The TPS Selection Board identifies students eligible for the joint AFIT and
         TPS program in aeronautical or electrical engineering, Air Force students for the
         USNTPS, and students for exchange with foreign test pilot schools. Students are
         selected by the coordinated efforts of AFPC, AFMC/A3 and TPS. Pilots selected for
         these programs must complete the entire pilot selection process.
     3.3.3. Fighter and Multi-Engine pilot candidates will participate in a CCEP at the TPS.
     The CCEP consists of a flight evaluation and an interview at Edwards AFB.
         3.3.3.1. The flight evaluation will assess a candidate’s ability to perform in and adapt
         to the experimental or developmental flight test environment. The evaluation will
         consist of sorties in TPS curriculum aircraft and flown under the supervision of an
         instructor pilot. Unsatisfactory flight performance will eliminate the candidate from
         consideration and may justify permanent ineligibility.
         3.3.3.2. The interview will assess the candidate’s desire to become a valuable
         contributing member of the Test and Evaluation community.
     3.3.4. Flight Test Engineers, Rotary Wing Aircraft Pilots, RPA Pilots, and CSO students
     will be selected solely from the TPS Selection Board ranking, unless the TPS Selection
     Board President deems it necessary for candidates to participate in a version of the
 16                                                               AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


         CCEP. This modified CCEP will be developed by the TPS and approved by AFMC/A3
         prior to candidate participation.
         3.3.5. The candidate’s current unit will assume temporary duty (TDY) expenses
         associated with this selection process.
         3.3.6. Candidates must keep their applications up to date. They must ensure annual
         update information is received by the TPS Records Board at least 45 days before the
         board convenes. The applicant submits update information directly to HQ
         AFPC/DPAOT3. The yearly update includes:
             3.3.6.1. New AF Form 1711.
             3.3.6.2. New AF Form 1712 from the immediate supervisor (if different).
             3.3.6.3. New certified copy of AF Form 942.
             3.3.6.4. Certified copies of all AF Forms 8 since the last update (for pilot and CSO
             applicants).
             3.3.6.5. College transcripts or grade reports for any other education acquired.
             3.3.6.6. Updated resume of flying experience (if changed and if applicable)
             (Attachment 2 format).
         3.3.7. Before the applications are boarded, HQ AFPC determines TPS availability for all
         applicants. After HQ AFPC releases the applications to the TPS Selection Board, the
         board will consider an applicant for TPS until:
             3.3.7.1. The board selects the applicant.
             3.3.7.2. The applicant voluntarily withdraws the application.
             3.3.7.3. The applicant exceeds the maximum TAFCS specified in Table 1
             3.3.7.4. The applicant does not update the application within the 10 months
             preceding the TPS selection board date.
Note: AFPC/DPAOT3 retains ineligible applications for 1 year and then destroys them IAW the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, available through the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

         3.3.8. Applicants can forward questions about their applications to HQ AFPC/DPAOT3
         or the USAF TPS Chief of Student Services at DSN 527-9933, USAF TPS, 220 South
         Wolfe Avenue, Edwards AFB CA 93524-6485.
      3.4. Requests for Waivers. Requests for waivers to the eligibility requirements listed in
      Table 1 will be submitted as part of the application package. HQ AFMC/A3 is the approval
      authority for such waivers. The request for waiver will be written in the form of a memo
      addressed to HQ AFMC/A3. The memo will state the eligibility requirement that requires a
      waiver and the rationale for requesting the waiver. Total flight time and aircraft commander
      time requirements will usually not be waived.
4. Assigning Officers to the TPS.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                     17


   4.1. Notification to MAJCOMs. HQ AFPC notifies MAJCOMs which officers are selected
   for TPS. Notification will be made as soon as possible as to not cause a hardship to the
   member. The MAJCOMs issue orders reassigning selected officers to AFTC IAW AFI 33-
   328, Administrative Orders, and the Air Force Education and Training Course
   Announcements located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil. The organization issuing orders will
   counsel the selected officers on the ADSC associated with selection to TPS IAW AFI 36 -
   2107, Active Duty Service Commitments, and will have the individual sign an ADSC
   Statement of Agreement (see example in Attachment 3). Since TPS is a voluntary school, a
   Seven Day Option is not required for individuals who are selected but choose not to accept
   the assignment. For information on the AFIT class start date, contact Admissions Directorate,
   AFIT/RR 2950 P Street, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-7765.
   4.2. Required Actions for AFIT/USAF TPS Candidates. If AFIT eligibility has not
   already been established, candidates selected for the AFIT/USAF TPS program must submit
   an AFIT admissions package to the AFIT Registrar office following selection notification
   from AFPC. All candidates selected for AFIT/USAF TPS must contact the AFIT Registrar;
   AFIT/ENER 2950 Hobson Way, Wright-Patterson AFB OH, 45433, DSN 785-6234 x4,
   Comm 937-255-6234 x4.
   4.3. Required Training Before Reporting. Pilot candidates should complete at least 20
   hours of flight during the 90-day period immediately before they start TPS. MAJCOMs
   provide this flight experience to candidates using available resources. Table 2 summarizes
   the required training all candidates must complete before reporting to TPS.

Table 2. Required Training Before Reporting.
  Student Category          Type Training            Location         Funding Responsibility
 Pilot                  Centrifuge 1            Brooks                Losing Unit
 Pilot                  Altitude Chamber        Various               Losing Unit
 Pilot                  Jet D Course 2          Randolph              Test Pilot School
 CSO/RPA                Altitude Chamber        Various               Losing Unit
 pilot/FTE
 RPA pilot/FTE          Water Survival          Various               Losing Unit
                        Course S-V86-A3
 All                    Defense Acquisition     Various               DAU or Losing Unit
                        University (DAU)
                        training 4
   Notes:
   1. Pilot students not current in centrifuge training who are attending the Jet D course will
   be scheduled by USAF TPS/DOT to attend centrifuge training at Brooks AFB whenever
   possible.
   2. Pilot students who have never been qualified in the T-38 aircraft will attend Jet D. See
   paragraph 4.2.1.
   3. Personnel who attended S-V90-A instead of S-V86-A prior to 1 Jan 03 are exempt from
   this requirement if they received local water survival refresher training which included
   hands-on water parachute drags as well as canopy disentanglement. MAJCOMs are highly
   encouraged to obtain S-V86-A allocations for grandfathered personnel based on level of
   risk, point in career, and course availability. See AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion,
 18                                                               AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


      Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program.
      4. Required DAU courses are primarily those needed for DAU certification to Test &
      Evaluation Level 1. A current list will be distributed by USAF TPS Student Services as
      part of a student info package.
         4.3.1. Fixed-wing Pilot Candidates. Fixed-wing pilots who have never been qualified
         in the T-38 aircraft will complete Jet Currency D Track training prior to reporting to TPS.
         Course dates for the Jet Currency D Track training will be scheduled to minimize the
         time between completion of training and start of TPS class (no longer than 90 days).
         USAF TPS/DO will identify and request annual Jet Currency D Track training
         requirements.
         4.3.2. Helicopter Pilot Candidates.
             4.3.2.1. These candidates will receive their training at the USNTPS and must be
             qualified in both rotary-wing and fixed-wing aircraft when they report to USNTPS.
             They should complete at least 20 hours of flight in rotary wing aircraft during the 90
             days before reporting to the USNTPS. This applies to all students except those
             reporting to USNTPS from SUPT fixed-wing transition training. MAJCOMs provide
             this flight experience to candidates using available resources.
             4.3.2.2. Helicopter pilot candidates who are not qualified in fixed-wing aircraft will
             complete SUPT fixed-wing transition training prior to reporting to USNTPS. Course
             dates for the SUPT fixed-wing transition training will be scheduled by TPS and HQ
             AFMC/A3V to minimize the time between completion of transition training and start
             of USNTPS class.
             4.3.2.3. Helicopter pilot candidates may be directed to attend C-12 flying training at
             Dothan, AL prior to reporting to USNTPS. TPS will identify and request annual C-12
             training requirements. TPS will fund the TDY for training at Dothan, AL.
      4.4. Foreign TPS Assignment. Officers who will attend foreign TPS receive up to 20 days
      TDY at Edwards AFB, CA during the 60 days before they leave for permanent change of
      station. TPS funds this TDY.
      4.5. Physiological Training. All candidates must report for the start of their TPS class with
      current physiological training that will not expire before completion of the TPS course. The
      losing unit funds this training.
      4.6. Billeting While Attending TPS. All students are required to live on base.
      4.7. Promotion Recommendations. All students who expect to meet a promotion board
      while attending TPS should arrive with a current Narrative Only Promotion
      Recommendation Form.
5. Educating and Training Non-USAF Individuals.
      5.1. Other US Service Branches. USNTPS selects US Navy and US Marine Corps
      personnel to attend the TPS. The applicant’s Service sends the information to USAF TPS/CC
      for coordination and final approval.
      5.2. Civilians. HQ AFMC/A3 may grant a limited number of flight test engineer course
      positions in the TPS to Air Force civilians, Federal agencies, and allied nations. Applicants
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                      19


  who are not Air Force officers prepare applications IAW paragraph 3 of this instruction and
  submit them as described below.
     5.2.1. Air Force Civilian Applicants. The local organizational commander and the
     civilian personnel office (CPO) process the application. The application must include a
     separate justification from the sponsoring organization of why the position the applicant
     will hold after graduation requires a TPS graduate. Officials providing recommendations
     for candidates must submit AF Form 1712, by separate correspondence, directly to HQ
     AFPC/DPAOT3. Start the application process at least 18 months before the TPS class
     start date.
         5.2.1.1. The local CPO forwards all applications that meet eligibility requirements of
         Table 1 to HQ AFPC/DPAOT3.
         5.2.1.2. The TPS Selection Board reviews civilian applications using the same
         standards as they do for military engineer applicants. The board ranks all military and
         civilian engineers in a common pool, and selects civilian quotas from the top-ranking
         civilian engineers that fall above the cut line in the common pool. AFMC/A3
         determines the number of civilian quotas. HQ AFPC notifies candidates and their
         servicing CPOs of their selection.
         5.2.1.3. The student's sponsoring organization funds the individual's civilian pay and
         all other associated costs to include housing, moving expenses, and hazardous duty
         pay.
         5.2.1.4. HQ AFPC/DPAOT3 returns applications of civilians that they do not select.
         The applicant can reapply if he or she still meets all eligibility requirements.
     5.2.2. Other Federal Agency Applicants. Applications from other Federal agencies
     must be processed through the local organizational executive-level supervisor. Submit
     these applications directly to HQ AFMC/A3. HQ AFMC/A3 reviews the application and
     sends copies to the TPS to determine the applicant's suitability for TPS education and
     training. The student's sponsoring organization must pay all costs associated with TPS
     attendance.
     5.2.3. Applicants from Allied Nations. Applicants should apply at least 12 months
     before the desired TPS class start date. This period allows time to review applications,
     allocate training slots, and schedule necessary English language courses. Sponsoring
     countries must translate applications into English before submitting them. Send
     applications to AFSAT/TO 315 J Street West, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4354. As soon
     as possible after receipt of the applications, AFSAT will provide the name, educational
     and flying backgrounds of the prospective foreign students to the TPS for approval.
         5.2.3.1. HQ AFMC/A3 will determine the type and number of TPS slots to be
         allocated to international partners and coordinate with SAF/IA to solve timing issues.
  5.3. Funding for Non-USAF Students. Invitational travel orders for international students
  must include TDY funds for field trips that are part of the curriculum. The following
  guidelines determine funding:
     5.3.1. Other US Services. Non-reimbursable (reciprocal agreements apply).
     5.3.2. Other US Agencies. Fully reimbursable to include military pay at standard rates.
20                                                              AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


        5.3.3. Allied/Friendly Nations. Tuition for international students is reimbursable at four
        different rates depending on the eligibility of the country and is developed IAW the DoD
        7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulations (FMRS), Chapter 7, Volume 15.
     5.4. English Language Requirements for Students from Allied Nations.
        5.4.1. All TPS students must be able to use the English language effectively. Candidates
        whose primary language is English are exempt from the requirements of paragraph 5.4 to
        screen, test, and train.
            5.4.1.1. All students must obtain a rating of 2+/2+ or better on the Oral Proficiency
            Interview (OPI).
            5.4.1.2. Non-English speaking foreign countries must test students for English
            language skills before TPS selects them, unless the Secretary of Defense grants an
            exemption from in-country testing.
            5.4.1.3. The Defense Language Institute English Language Center (DLIELC) English
            Comprehension Level (ECL) and OPI will be used to screen applicants.
            5.4.1.4. Administer ECL testing IAW DLIELC Instruction 1025.7, Planning and
            Programming Security Assistance English Language Training, and DLIELC
            Instruction 1025.15, English Comprehension Level (ECL) Test Guidelines. Copies are
            available from DLIELC, Lackland AFB TX 78236-5259.
        5.4.2. The sponsoring country ensures that:
            5.4.2.1. Any candidate selected for TPS who achieves less than 85 ECL must attend
            English language training at DLIELC IAW the duration tables in DLIELC Instruction
            1025.7.
            5.4.2.2. Any student who achieves 85 ECL or above and 2+/2+ or better on the OPI
            attends 9 weeks of specialized English aviation language training at DLIELC.
        5.4.3. DLIELC re-examines incoming students to confirm their in-country ECL score. If
        a student qualifies with an 85 ECL and a 2+/2+ on the OPI, DLIELC puts that student
        into the specialized aviation course.
        5.4.4. The USAF TPS Commandant has exclusive authority to approve or deny language
        training waiver requests. The applicant's country must submit the waiver request with the
        original TPS application, including a justification for such waiver.
     5.5. Billeting at TPS for Non-USAF Individuals. All students, including civilians and
     international students, are required to live on base.
6. TPS Graduation Awards. The USAF TPS Commandant:
     6.1. Presents the Liethen-Tittle Award to the experimental test pilot graduate with the best
     overall record for outstanding performance and academic excellence.
     6.2. Presents the R.L. Jones Award to the outstanding experimental test combat systems
     officer, experimental RPA pilot, or experimental flight test engineer graduate with the best
     overall record for outstanding performance and academic excellence.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                     21


   6.3. May designate up to 15% of the graduates of each class as distinguished graduates.
   Remainders may be rounded up.
7. Assigning Graduates. TPS graduates represent a highly trained, critical resource. A strong
personnel management program controls their use as graduates of a specialized flying school.
   7.1. Air Force graduates receive an ADSC commitment to the Air Force IAW AFI 36-2107
   with a three-year DDA to a flight test vacancy as an active test flyer in DT&E, or another
   position that uses the education and training (see Attachment 3).
   7.2. Air Force requirements determine future assignments after the initial DDA.
   7.3. Graduates of the AFIT/USAF TPS program are required to work in an AAD coded
   position for three years within the next six years after graduation.
   7.4. Air Force civilians assume the positions for which they received TPS education and
   training.
8. USNTPS Program. The Air Force sends a limited number of flight test CSO, flight test
engineer, fixed-wing test pilot, and rotary-wing test pilot students to the USNTPS, Naval Air
Station (NAS) Patuxent River, MD. The TPS Selection Board selects students from the pool of
applicants for TPS to fill the Air Force quotas. Eligibility requirements are similar to the TPS.
   8.1. The USNTPS syllabus includes fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft. A selected student
   without fixed-wing aircraft experience attends SUPT fixed-wing conversion training before
   attending USNTPS.
   8.2. Each Air Force student attending the USNTPS must complete an accredited water
   survival course. Each student must pass a US Navy Class B swimmers course while at the
   USNTPS. The Navy swimmers course requires the applicant to swim 75 yards using three
   types of strokes while wearing flight gear, and to tread water or drown proof for 10 minutes.
9. Foreign TPS. Opportunities periodically occur allowing students to receive their test training
at the Empire TPS in Boscombe Downs, United Kingdom or the French TPS (École du
Personnel Navigant d'Essais et de Réception - E.P.N.E.R.) in Istres, France. Applicants
volunteering for foreign TPS should include that information on their applications and specify
whether or not they have existing foreign language ability. All volunteers for French TPS should
take the DLAB test and submit results with the TPS application package. If selected, French TPS
candidates must attend and pass applicable French language training requirements. The spouse of
a candidate selected for French TPS should also be able to attend full-time language training.
EPNER selectees will undergo a two-month preparatory education at ISAE in Toulouse, France,
before commencing EPNER, in order to fully satisfy academic requirements for the Specialized
Master’s Degree in Experimental Flight Test conferred upon EPNER graduates.
10. Failure to Meet School Standards and Disenrollment.
   10.1. Overview. A TPS student may be disenrolled for deficiencies in flying, academics,
   professional conduct, medical, or through voluntary DOR procedures. TPS has three general
   categories for removing a student from the course: elimination, removal without prejudice,
   and DOR. All students removed from the course prior to graduation will still require a
   Training Report (TR) IAW AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems,
   regardless of how many days they attended the course. See Attachment 5 for guidance on
   completing TRs for TPS students.
22                                                               AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


     10.2. Elimination. Because TPS maintains stringent eligibility requirements and uses a
     thorough selection process, most students successfully complete the course. However, when
     a student fails to meet professional conduct, flying and/or academic standards, elimination
     from TPS may be warranted. When a student has been identified for elimination by the
     Commandant, the student will be removed from the course and applicable boards will be
     convened as outlined below.
        10.2.1. FEB Proceedings. An FEB may be convened to review pending dismissal of a
        rated student from the experimental test pilot or experimental test CSO/RPA course
        (except when waived) for failure to meet standards in the flying portion of the course. If
        an FEB waiver request is not warranted or not approved, AFTC/CC will designate the
        convening authority IAW AFI 11-402 with the following stipulations:
            10.2.1.1. Voting members must include at least three unbiased officers who hold an
            11EX or 12EX AFSC.
            10.2.1.2. At least one voting member must be a TPS staff member.
            10.2.1.3. The board can include additional voting members with 11EX or 12EX
            AFSCs.
        10.2.2. FEB Waiver. The Commandant will make a recommendation to the 412
        TW/CC on whether an FEB waiver is warranted under the provisions of AFI 11-402.
        The Commandant will counsel the student on their right to request a waiver after advising
        them on the right to seek legal counsel with an ―Opportunity to Request an FEB Waiver‖
        letter (Attachment 6). If a student requests an FEB waiver and it is approved, the
        student is then administratively removed from the course IAW AFI 36-2201, Vol 1
        (sample removal letter in Attachment 7). See Attachment 8 for a sample student
        request for FEB waiver. If the student opts to seek legal counsel, the legal counsel should
        sign Attachment 8. If the student does not seek legal counsel, the Commandant should
        sign Attachment 8. It is not necessary for both counsel and the Commandant to sign
        Attachment 8.
        10.2.3. Academic Evaluation Board (AEB). The AEB considers elimination of
        students from the experimental test pilot, experimental test CSO/RPA pilot, or
        experimental flight test engineer course for failure to meet academic standards. TPS
        conducts AEB proceedings IAW requirements indicated in the following paragraphs.
            10.2.3.1. AEB Membership. The USAF TPS Commandant is the AEB convening
            authority and appoints either USAF TPS/CD or USAF TPS/CT to serve as AEB
            Chair, with voting membership to include: USAF TPS/ED and/or USAF TPS/DO,
            Master Instructors from each sub-discipline, and Chief Pilot.
            10.2.3.2. AEB Process. The AEB will thoroughly review the student’s academic
            performance, evaluating all contributing factors. The board shall provide formal
            proceedings with a recommendation for retention or dismissal to the TPS
            Commandant. The Commandant will review and forward the AEB’s
            recommendation to AFTC/CC for the final decision to retain or dismiss the student.
            If AFTC/CC directs dismissal of the student, the AEB report will go to HQ
            AFMC/A3 to process through HQ AFMC/DP for Air Force military/civilian students
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                      23


         or to SAF/AQQC for non-USAF students. AEB proceedings will be archived by the
         TPS registrar in the appropriate class archive.
     10.2.4. Board Proceedings Disposition.
         10.2.4.1. When a student requests voluntary elimination from TPS, the proceedings
         of related FEBs or AEBs are not subject to the review requirements of AFI 51602,
         Boards of Officers.
         10.2.4.2. When board proceedings form the basis of further administrative action, or
         inquire into the conduct, efficiency, fitness, or financial liability of the student as a
         member of the Air Force, such proceedings must meet all requirements of AFI 51602.
         10.2.4.3. Disposition documents from AEB proceedings IAW the Air Force Records
         Disposition            Schedule          (RDS)            located           at
         https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
  10.3. Removal without Prejudice. In some cases, sufficient reasons exist for a student to
  be removed from the course without prejudice administratively; this includes inadequate
  resources, humanitarian, medical, security clearance issues, etc. Students removed from the
  course without prejudice will be allowed to re-compete for future TPS courses.
     10.3.1. Students removed from the TPS course without prejudice do not require an FEB
     or FEB waiver. These students will be processed IAW AFI 11-402.
     10.3.2. Use the following non-completion reasons for Block II (paragraph 4) on the AF
     Form 475, Education/Training Report: ―Withdrawn without prejudice for the needs of the
     Air Force‖ or ―Withdrawn for humanitarian reasons‖ IAW AFI 36-2406. If none of the
     above reasons apply, state the reason. To explain further, also enter, "See Comments,"
     and explain in the appropriate comment section.
     10.3.3. Only with prior approval by AFMC/A3 may a student be administratively
     removed from a course and retain primary select status for a future course. Such actions
     may only be arranged on a space-available basis, and are only valid within 12 months or
     less from the original course start date. This process is usually not feasible due to the
     fixed, small number of students selected annually to attend TPS. Normally, the student
     should plan on re-applying if still eligible for future courses.
  10.4. DOR.
     10.4.1. Any student contemplating DOR should be made aware that he or she will
     receive a Training Report (TR) documenting the circumstances of the withdrawal.
     Additionally, the FEB process may be initiated if circumstances warrant. The
     Commandant or a designated representative will provide counseling on the ramifications
     of DOR. Counseling will be documented on AF Form 174, Record of Individual
     Counseling.
     10.4.2. Following counseling, the student will be given time to reconsider. A student
     electing to DOR will be removed from TPS and placed with another unit, pending formal
     reassignment action. If warranted, the USAF TPS Commandant may initiate the FEB
     process.
24                                                                AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


        10.4.3. DOR Training Reports. The Commandant will decide if the student has
        sufficient justification to withdraw from the course without prejudice.           If the
        Commandant determines that the student has sufficient justification beyond his or her
        control, the student will be allowed to withdraw without prejudice and a Final TR will be
        completed (see Attachment 5 and paragraph 10.3). If the Commandant determines there
        is not sufficient justification to withdraw without prejudice, the student will draft a
        memorandum to the Commandant stating he or she is dropping on request along with the
        reason(s). The Commandant will complete a Referral TR IAW AFI 36-2406.
           10.4.3.1. The following comments in Figure 3 are mandatory for Block III on the AF
           Form 475, Education/Training Report, for a student who elects DOR and does not
           have sufficient cause to withdraw without prejudice.

Figure 3. Mandatory Comments on AF Form 475 for DOR.

           ACADEMIC/TRAINING ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

           ―United States Air Force Test Pilot School is a rigorous 48-week graduate-level, 50
           semester hour advanced course designed and structured to produce the world’s finest
           flight test professionals. Students are selected through a highly competitive selection
           process; culminated with a board of officers convened at AF Personnel Center.‖

           ―(Rank/last name) voluntarily dropped on request on the (XX) training day of this
           course. By making this decision after class start date, the Air Force was unable to
           activate an alternate candidate for this training. This voluntary drop on request will
           adversely affect Air Force flight test community officer manning for the next 3 to 5
           years.‖

           PROFESSIONAL QUALITIES:

           ―Voluntary separation after the rigorous nomination and board selection process calls
           into question (rank/last name)’s dedication to service before self and leadership
           potential.

           ―General attitude, military bearing and appearance, conduct, and fitness met standards
           (if applicable).‖

           OTHER COMMENTS:

           ―USAF TPS/CC (or designated representative) counseled (rank/last name) on his/her
           decision to drop on request. No extraneous circumstances were presented or
           identified.‖

     10.5. Notification. For all cases of student removal from TPS, the Commandant or
     designated representative will directly notify HQ AFMC/A3 that the student was removed
     from the course with reasons why.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                   25


11. AFIT and TPS Doctoral (Ph. D.) Program.
   11.1. Purpose. Every year, one or more TPS graduates may be chosen to attend AFIT (in
   residence) for three years and earn a Doctor of Philosophy Degree (Ph.D.) in Aeronautical or
   Electrical Engineering. The primary purpose of this program is to ensure the TPS curriculum
   and research programs reflect the state of the art in aeronautical sciences. In addition, it
   creates a cadre of officers within AFMC who combine current flight test experience with a
   high level of theoretical knowledge.
   11.2. Minimum Eligibility Requirements.
      11.2.1. TPS graduate Pilot, Combat Systems Officer, or Flight Test Engineer.
      11.2.2. At least two years of flight-test experience since TPS graduation prior to AFIT
      start date.
      11.2.3. At least two years’ time on station prior to AFIT start date.
      11.2.4. Master’s Degree in Engineering with at least a 3.5 GPA.
   11.3. Application Materials.
      11.3.1. Resumé emphasizing job experience, flight experience, test experience,
      education, APDP certifications, professional accomplishments, and honors.
      11.3.2. Copies of transcripts from every college or university attended showing degrees
      awarded and GPA.
      11.3.3. Description of undergraduate and graduate thesis research.
      11.3.4. List of scholarly publications.
   11.4. Selection Timeline.
      11.4.1. Not later than (NLT) 31 July of the year prior to AFIT start. Send application
      materials to USAF TPS/CD, 220 S. Wolfe Ave, Edwards AFB CA 93524-6485.
      11.4.2. NLT August of the year prior to AFIT start. USAF TPS Commandant and
      AFIT/USAF TPS Liaison Officer recommend primary and alternate candidates.
      AFMC/A3 approves the final selection.
      11.4.3. NLT September. Primary candidate follows AFIT application procedures.
      11.4.4. NLT December. Candidate receives official AFIT notification of acceptance.
      11.4.5. NLT August of the year of entry. Candidate begins AFIT Ph.D. program.
   11.5. Assigning Graduates.
      11.5.1. Upon graduation from AFIT, the officer is assigned to the TPS staff for a three-
      year tour in an AAD coded position.
      11.5.2. Upon graduation from AFIT, the officer will receive a five-year ADSC to the Air
      Force IAW AFI 36-2107. See Attachment 4.
26                     AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


     RICKY L. PETERS
     Director of Test and Evaluation
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                   27


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRS), Volume
15, Chapter 7 (Pricing), April 2008
AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges, 25 September
2007
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections And Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders, 16 January 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC), 22 April 2005
AFI 36-2201, Vol 1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation, 1 October 2002
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 April 2005
AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers, 2 March 1994
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 February 2008
DLIELC Instruction 1025.7, Planning and Programming Security Assistance English Language
Training, 1 October 2008
DLIELC Instruction 1025.15, English Comprehension Level (ECL) Test Guidelines, 1 October
2007
NOTE: The user of this instruction is responsible for verifying the currency of the cited
documents.
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 1711, USAF Test Pilot School Application
AF Form 1712, Special Flying Program Recommendation
Adopted Forms
AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification
AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling
AF Form 475, Education/Training Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 942, Record of Evaluation
AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendations for Flying or Special Operational Duty
 28                                                       AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAD—Advanced Academic Degree
ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment
AEB—Academic Evaluation Board
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFCAT—Air Force Catalogue
AFTC—Air Force Test Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
AU—Air University
BS—Bachelor of Science
CCEP—Comprehensive Candidate Evaluation Program
CIP—Commander’s Involvement Program
CP—Crew Position
CPC—Curriculum Planning Council
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
CSO—Combat Systems Officer
DAU—Defense Acquisition University
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                  29


DDA—Directed Duty Assignment
DDL—Disclosure Delegation Letter
DLAB—Defense Language Aptitude Battery
DLPT—Defense Language Proficiency Test
DLIELC—Defense Language Institute English Language Center
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOR—Drop on Request
DOS—Date of Separation
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
e.g.—exempli gratia, meaning ―for example‖
EAD—Extended Active Duty
ECL—English Comprehension Level
EPNER—École du Personnel Navigant d’Essais et de Réception (French TPS)
ETPS—Empire Test Pilots’ School (British TPS)
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FEB—Flying Evaluation Board
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FTE—Flight Test Engineer
FY—Fiscal Year
GPA—Grade Point Average
HARM—Host Aviation Resource Management
HOSM—Host Operations System Management
HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
IAW—-In Accordance With
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
IMET—International Military Education Training
ISAE—Institut Supérieur de l'Aéronautique et de l'Espace (French Aeronautics University)
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
 30                                                            AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


MS—Master of Science
NAS—Naval Air Station
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NLT—Not Later Than
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
Ph.D.—Doctor of Philosophy Degree
OPI—Oral Proficiency Interview
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility, or Officer Performance Report
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
SAP—Special Access Programs
SSAN—Social Security Administration Number
SUNT—Specialized Undergraduate Navigator Training
SUPT—Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TAFCS—Total Active Federal Commissioned Service
TFCSD—Total Federal Commissioned Service to Date
TDY—Temporary Duty
TPS—Test Pilot School
TR—Training Report
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
U.S.C.—United States Code
USN—United States Navy
USNTPS—United States Naval Test Pilot School

Terms
Jet Currency Track—A course of instruction provided by Air Education and Training
Command.
Test and Evaluation (T&E)—The act of generating empirical data during the research,
development or sustainment of systems, and the creation of information through analysis that is
useful to technical personnel and decision makers for reducing design and acquisition risks. The
process by which systems are measured against requirements and specifications, and the results
analyzed so as to gauge progress and provide feedback. (AFI 99-103)
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                             31


Note: Joint Publication 1—02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated
Terms, and AFM 11-1, Air Force Glossary of Standardized Terms, contain standardized terms
and definitions for DoD and Air Force use.
32                                                            AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 2
                  FORMAT FOR RESUME OF FLYING EXPERIENCE



                           RESUME OF FLYING EXPERIENCE




 Aircraft    Crew Position     Date Starting     Hours in CP      Combat Time       Total by
                 (CP)            that CP                                             MDS

 Example
 F-16        UP                1 Jan 08               40                0
 F-16        FP                1 Jun 08               60                0
 F-16        MP                1 Sep 08               300               10
 F-16        IP                1 Nov 08               100               15
 F-16        EP                1 Dec 08               50                10             550
 F-15E       UP                1 Feb 09               100               0
 F-15E       MP                1 Jun 09               100               10             200

                                                                  Grand total          700
NAME:______________________ AS OF:_________________




NOTES:

1. Do not include SUPT/SUNT student time.

2. Flying time logged while piloting nonmilitary aircraft may be added as a remark in a similar
format. Civilian ratings held may also be listed. Applicants from allied nations should enter
their military flying experience by type aircraft in the appropriate category above.
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                 33




                                         Attachment 3
                        ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE COMMITMENT



STATEMENT OF AGREEMENT

(TEST PILOT SCHOOL)

I have been counseled on the active duty service commitment (ADSC) associated with
selection to test pilot school (TPS), and I have reviewed AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service
Commitments (ADSC). I fully understand that I will receive an active duty service commitment
to the Air Force IAW AFI 36-2107 and a three-year Directed Duty Assignment commitment
upon graduation from TPS. If the ADSC changes, I will serve the ADSC in effect at the time I
graduate. I agree to serve the appropriate ADSC IAW AFI 36-2107 if I am eliminated or
withdrawn from TPS. I understand that when I am assigned, my TPS ADSC (whether by
graduation from TPS, because I was eliminated, or withdrew from training), and my date of
separation (DOS) will be adjusted to match my TPS ADSC if my DOS is less than the applicable
ADSC.




(Signature and date)


Printed or typed; first name, middle initial, last name, SSAN
 34                                                            AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 4
                         ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE COMMITMENT

                               STATEMENT OF AGREEMENT

                       (Ph.D. INSTRUCTOR for TEST PILOT SCHOOL)

I have been counseled on the active duty service commitment (ADSC) associated with
selection to Ph.D. candidacy in residence at AFIT, and I have reviewed AFI 36-2107, Active
Duty Service Commitments (ADSC). I fully understand that I will receive a five-year active duty
service commitment to the Air Force IAW AFI 36-2107 and a three-year controlled TPS staff
commitment upon graduation from AFIT. If the ADSC changes, I will serve the ADSC in effect
at the time I graduate. I agree to serve the appropriate ADSC IAW AFI 36-2107 if I am
eliminated or withdrawn from AFIT. I understand that when I am assigned, my AFIT ADSC
(whether by graduation from AFIT, because I was eliminated, or withdrew from training), and
my date of separation (DOS) may be adjusted to match my TPS ADSC if my DOS is less than
the applicable ADSC.




(Signature and date)


Printed or typed; first name, middle initial, last name, SSN
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                     35


                                         Attachment 5
                       TPS TRAINING REPORT (TR) FACT SHEET

A5.1. Purpose. Documents an officer’s accomplishments during formal training and is filed in
the member’s permanent records at HQ AFPC.
A5.2. Form Used. AF Form 475, Education/Training Report.
A5.3. Guidance. AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems.
A5.4. Who Requires a TR. TRs are mandatory for all TPS students on completion, interruption
of, or elimination from TPS. This TR will be a permanent part of the student’s record. The TR is
treated just like an officer performance report (OPR), regardless of whether the student Dropped
on Request, was eliminated, or withdrew prior to course completion (see AFI 36-2406, paragraph
6.2.1.1).

Table A5.1. Training Report Types.

          Purpose for TR                                     Type of TR

 DOR                                   Referral TR
 Eliminated for any reason             Final TR (Block II.2. marked ―course not completed‖)
 Withdrawn for any reason              Final TR (Block II.2. marked ―course not completed‖)
 Completed course                      Final TR

A5.5. Inclusive Dates. The TR will begin the first day following the ―THRU‖ date of the
student’s last OPR. This is important if the student's last OPR closed out prior to the TPS class
start date. Any significant events which occurred after the previous OPR closeout date will need
to be included in the TR.

Table A5.2. “THRU” Date for TR.

                Student Status                               “THRU” date on TR
 Completed course                                 The date of graduation
 Eliminated/withdrawn/DOR                         The date student was removed

A5.6. Student’s Responsibility. Students are responsible for following up with their squadron
orderly room within 90 days of graduation or elimination to ensure a copy of the TR is in their
records at HQ AFPC. If not in the records after 120 days, contact the USAF TPS Registrar at
DSN 527-3000 or via email: TPS.registrar@edwards.af.mil.
 36                                                                AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


                                           Attachment 6
       SAMPLE “OPPORTUNITY TO REQUEST AN FEB WAIVER” REQUEST

DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR (Officer concerned)

FROM: USAF TPS/CC

SUBJECT: Opportunity to Request FEB Waiver

1. You are suspended from aviation service effective (date). As of (date), your aviation service
code (ASC XX) will change to ASC 04 and your aviation career incentive pay will cease.

2. In accordance with AFI 11-402, Chapter 4, I am offering you the opportunity to request a
waiver to a Flying Evaluation Board (FEB). If you choose not to request an FEB waiver,
proceedings to convene an FEB will be initiated. Reviewing authorities at any level may deny
the waiver request and direct an FEB.

3. This action is a result of your inability to show satisfactory progress in the Air Force
Experimental Test (Pilot/CSO) Course. The reasons for this decision are as follows:

      a. Your marginal/unsatisfactory flying progress in (state phases of unsatisfactory
      performance and amplifying information).

      b. Your performance of basic flying skills is satisfactory (this statement should be included
      if recommendation is for an FEB waiver).

      c. Your displayed judgment qualities are commensurate with your experience level (this
      statement should be included if recommendation is for an FEB waiver).

4. Military legal counsel can be obtained to advise you of your rights under FEB action and FEB
waiver action. You will have complete access to your training records for review with your
counsel.

5. Acknowledge receipt of this letter and return it to me within five working days.




                                                          (COMMANDANT SIGNATURE BLOCK)
                                                                             Commandant
AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                        37


                                          Attachment 7
              SAMPLE STUDENT REMOVAL FROM TPS NOTIFICATION




                                                                                             DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR (Officer concerned)

FROM: USAF TPS/CC

SUBJECT: Elimination from USAF Experimental Test (Pilot/CSO/RPA pilot/Engineer) Course

1. You are hereby eliminated from participation in the Air Force Experimental Test
(Pilot/CSO/RPA pilot/Engineer) Course. The reason for this action is your failure to meet the
requirements of the TPS (pilot/CSO/RPA pilot/engineer) syllabus. Your inability to show timely
progression indicates the need to eliminate you from the course.

2. Your performance of basic (flying skills/basic mission skills if applicable) was satisfactory and
your disciplined judgment qualities are commensurate with your experience level.



                                                         (COMMANDANT SIGNATURE BLOCK)
                                                                            Commandant
 38                                                                  AFI99-107 17 JANUARY 2013


                                             Attachment 8
                     SAMPLE STUDENT REQUEST FOR FEB WAIVER



                                                                                                   DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR USAF TPS/CC

FROM: (Officer Concerned)

SUBJECT: Request for Waiver of Flying Evaluation Board (FEB)

1. On (date), I was notified by the convening authority that a FEB will convene for the purpose of
developing and considering evidence concerning my professional qualifications as an aircrew member.
The FEB will submit recommendations regarding my suitability for future aviation service.

2. I hereby waive my right to have a FEB consider my qualifications for continued aviation service. I
understand by this action I will be withdrawn from the Air Force Experimental Test (Pilot/CSO/RPA
pilot) Course for failure to meet minimum course training standards and will be assigned to aircrew duties
for which I am qualified, consistent with the needs of the Air Force.

3. I understand if my request for waiver of FEB is approved, I will be eliminated from the Air Force
Experimental Test (Pilot/CSO/RPA pilot) Course. I further understand my request for waiver can be
disapproved at any level of command, in which case FEB proceedings will resume.


                                                                                  (Member's Signature)
                                                                   (Member's Type Name, Grade, USAF)
                                                                                               (SSAN)

The preceding statement is (grade, full name) own decision. (grade, last name) signed the statement after
being fully counseled by me on (his/her) rights under AFI 11-402. (He/She) acknowledged this request
and forfeits (his/her) right to appear before an FEB and present evidence on (his/her) own behalf.



                                                                (COMMANDANT SIGNATURE BLOCK)
                                                                                  Commandant


The preceding statement is (grade, full name) own decision. (grade, last name) signed the statement after
being fully counseled by me on (his/her) rights under AFI 11-402. (He/She) acknowledged this request
and forfeits (his/her) right to appear before an FEB and present evidence on (his/her) own behalf.



                                                (Signature Area Defense Counsel or legal representative)
                                                       (Type Name, Grade, USAF, or civilian equivalent)
