BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 99-109
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            22 JANUARY 2014
                                                                  Certified Current 3 June 2014
                                                                            Test and Evaluation

                                               MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITY BASE
                                                     (MRTFB) TEST AND EVALUATION
                                                              RESOURCE PLANNING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/TER                                                                Certified by: AF/TER
                                                                                (Mr. Keith Eden)
Supersedes:   AFI99-109, 17 May 2006                                                    Pages: 15


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 99-1, Test and
Evaluation Process, which directs management of test and evaluation (T&E) facilities including
the Air Force major range and test facility base (MRTFB) activities. This instruction defines
MRTFB test resource advocates; identifies types, purpose and planning processes of test
resource programs; and identifies responsibilities associated with test resource planning.
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base,
identifies MRTFB activity locations, policy and responsibilities. Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 3200.18, Management and Operation of the Major Range and Test Facility
Base, expands on DoDD 3200.11. Reference Department of Defense (DoD) 7000.14-R,
Financial Management Regulation (FMR) and AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance and Procedures,
for MRTFB customer charging policies. Reference AFI 63-118, Civil Engineering Research,
Development and Acquisition, for civil engineering resource planning or investments. Also see
AFI 61-101, Management of Science and Technology, for Air Force science and technology
planning, governance, and execution. Refer to DoDI 5134.16, Deputy Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Systems Engineering (DASD(SE)) for DoD Systems Engineering policy. Refer
proposed supplements or changes about this instruction to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms
847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS).
 2                                                                AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has minor revisions that represent the current state of AF resource planning
related to the MRTFB and does not change implementation procedures.
1. Test Resource Planning. The Air Staff, Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and associated
MRTFB activities conduct test resource planning. MRTFB activities are identified in DoDD
3200.11. MRTFB activities require an adequate supply of airspace, water ranges, land ranges
and spectrum resources as well as test infrastructure, workforce, and resources to support T&E
requirements. Planning and funding of test resources is accomplished through the Headquarters
Air Force, Test and Evaluation Directorate (AF/TE) and Planning, Programming, Budgeting and
Execution (PPBE) processes or by the acquisition programs (customers). The annual Test and
Training Range Summit provides a cross flow of needs and discussions for consideration in
MRTFB resource planning. Any action stated in DoDD 3200.11 that requires approval by Office
of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Test and Resource Management Center (TRMC) shall be
coordinated through the MRTFB activities, their MAJCOM chain of command and AF/TE prior
to submission to TRMC.
2. Test Resources. Test resources encompass but are not limited to test ranges, facilities,
capabilities, air, space and ground support equipment, manpower, travel and training, research
and development, test support aircraft and associated maintenance, flying hours, threat systems,
modeling and simulation (M&S), distributed assets (live, virtual and constructive), targets,
sensors, instrumentation, communications, range safety, information technology, data
management, security and associated costs.
3. Test Resource Programs. Test resource funding is managed through Air Force and other
DoD unique Program Elements (PEs). Execution is accomplished by various Air Force field
activities through their MAJCOM and OSD agencies that fund test capabilities. Headquarters
Air Force, Test and Evaluation Resource and Infrastructure Division (AF/TER) provides test and
evaluation resources oversight and guidance to the Air Force MRTFB activities through their
respective parent MAJCOM.
     3.1. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) MRTFB T&E Operations.
        3.1.1. T&E Support. PE 65807F funds T&E support functions for AFMC MRTFB
        activities and is executed through the Air Force Test Center (AFTC) at Edwards Air
        Force Base (AFB). The Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) funding
        support includes civilian and contractor labor; associated supplies, travel, training, and
        utilities; test support aircraft costs to include Depot Level Repairables, Contract Logistics
        Support, Periodic Depot Maintenance, aircraft maintenance, and fuel; facility operations
        such as ground test tunnels, cells, test tracks, and other test facilities; preventive
        maintenance of test equipment, photo labs, x-ray facilities, and data processing; aircraft
        operations and other operating expenses for the USAF Test Pilot School. Budget
        oversight for the PE is provided by AFMC/A3F and AF/TER.
        3.1.2. T&E Facility Restoration and Modernization. PE 65976F funds T&E facility
        restoration and modernization for AFMC MRTFB activities and is executed through
        AFTC. The RDT&E funding support funds facility repair, replacement and alterations;
        modernization of facilities; and restoration of damaged facilities for situations such as
AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014                                                                     3


     storm damage, mission bed-down, and lack of sustainment. Budget oversight for the PE
     is provided by AFMC/A3F and AF/TER.
     3.1.3. T&E Facility Sustainment. PE 65978F funds AFMC T&E facility sustainment
     and is executed through AFTC. The RDT&E funding support includes regularly
     scheduled adjustments and inspections, preventive maintenance tasks and emergency
     response and service calls for minor repairs. It also includes major repairs or replacement
     of facility components that are expected to occur periodically throughout the life cycle of
     facilities. This work includes roof replacement, refinishing of wall surfaces, repairing
     and replacement of heating and cooling systems, replacing tile and carpeting, and similar
     types of work. Budget oversight for the PE is provided by AFMC/A3F and AF/TER.
     3.1.4. Resource Planning. Resources are funded institutionally and by MRTFB
     customers. DoD customers using the MRTFB are charged only direct costs for testing.
     Per the FMR, DoD 7000.14-R, non-DoD customers may be charged additional indirect
     costs. The institutional resources are planned and programmed by AFMC during the
     PPBE process. MRTFB customer funds are planned and programmed by the customer.
  3.2. AFMC MRTFB Investments.
     3.2.1. Threat Simulator Development. PE 64256F funds improvement and
     modernization (I&M) for AFMC threat simulator development and is planned and
     executed through AFTC. The RDT&E funding support includes corporate-level Air
     Force implementation of the Electronic Warfare (EW) test projects necessary to maintain
     a viable ground test capability. The 412th Test Wing and 96th Test Wing manage the
     EW ground test infrastructure. The 96th Test Group manages the National Radar Cross-
     Section Test Facility (NRTF). The program also includes Air Force Foreign Materiel
     Program (FMP), which supports the acquisition and analysis of foreign materiel. The
     FMP process is outlined in AFI 99-114, Foreign Materiel Program. This program
     includes Electronic Combat Intelligence Support (ECIS) which provides funds for
     Foreign Materiel OT&E support. ECIS assists operational commands in the development
     of test effective Electronic Attack/Electronic Protection techniques and tactics.
     Headquarters Air Force, Special Programs Division (AF/TEZ) provides oversight of both
     the Air Force FMP and ECIS resources. Budget oversight for the PE is provided by
     AFMC/A3F and AF/TER.
     3.2.2. Major T&E Investment. PE 64759F funds AFMC major T&E investment
     projects and is planned and executed through AFTC. The RDT&E funding support is
     designed to help test organizations keep pace with emerging weapon system
     technologies. Test areas supported are Airframe, Propulsion, and Avionics; Armament
     and Munitions; Space; and Command, Control, Communications, Computers,
     Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR). The program provides planning,
     improvements and modernization for test capabilities managed by the 96thTest Wing,
     412th Test Wing, Arnold Engineering Development Complex (AEDC), and 96th Test
     Group. Budget oversight for the PE is provided by AFMC/A3F and AF/TER.
     3.2.3. Resource Planning. Resources are planned and programmed using the Test
     Investment Planning and Programming (TIPP) process. The TIPP process is managed by
     AFMC/A3F with active participation by AF/TER, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of
     Defense for Developmental Test and Evaluation (DASD (DT&E)) Council, AFMC
4                                                               AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014


       MRTFB activities and coordinated with the AF EW T&E Consortium and Reliance
       Panels. The TIPP process identifies and prioritizes projects funded by the Major T&E
       Investment and Threat Simulator Development programs. TIPP develops prioritized
       infrastructure needs and solutions for Air Force DT&E in support of AFMC T&E
       Program Objective Memorandum (POM) inputs. The process also feeds the Reliance
       process which identifies projects to recommend as Central Test and Evaluation
       Investment Program (CTEIP) candidates.
    3.3. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) MRTFB T&E Operations.
       3.3.1. Eastern and Western Range Spacelift Operations. PE 35181F funds the 30th
       Space Wing (Western Range) T&E support activity. PE 35182F funds the 45th Space
       Wing (Eastern Range) T&E support activity. Use of PE 35181F will be discontinued at
       the end of fiscal year 2014. Beginning in fiscal year 2015, PE 35182F will fund both the
       30th and 45th Space Wings. The Operations and Maintenance (O&M) funding support
       includes funds for civilian, military, and contractor labor necessary to operate, maintain,
       sustain, recapitalize and modernize a common range facility/hardware and software core
       for spacelift operations as well as T&E and non-T&E mission activity. This program
       element also funds Eastern and Western Range facility sustainment and is executed
       through AFSPC/A3SR. This program element includes regularly scheduled adjustments
       and inspections, preventative maintenance tasks and emergency response and service
       calls for minor repairs. It also includes major repairs or replacement of facility
       components that are expected to occur periodically throughout the life cycle of facilities,
       as well as contracts to sustain, recapitalize and modernize common range facilities,
       hardware and software, and Weapon System Sustainment designated efforts. Budget
       oversight for the PE’s O&M funds is provided by AFSPC/A3SR and AF/A3SO.
       3.3.2. Resource Planning. Resources are funded institutionally and by MRTFB
       customers. DoD customers using the MRTFB are charged only direct costs for testing.
       Per the FMR, DoD 7000.14-R, non-DoD customers may be charged additional indirect
       costs. The institutional resources are planned and programmed by AFSPC during the
       PPBE process. MRTFB customer funds are planned and programmed by the customer.
    3.4. AFSPC MRTFB Investments. PE 35182F funds improvement, modernization, and
    sustainment projects for the Western and Eastern Ranges using RDT&E and Other
    Procurement funds. These projects are executed by AFSPC’s Spacelift Range and Network
    Systems Program, Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC/RN). They are planned and
    programmed by AFSPC/A3SR in the AFSPC POM during the PPBE process. Budget
    oversight for the PE’s RDT&E and Other Procurement funding is provided by AFSPC/A3SR
    and SAF/AQSL.
    3.5. Air Combat Command (ACC) MRTFB T&E Operations.
       3.5.1. Nevada Test and Training Range (NTTR) and Utah Test and Training Range
       (UTTR). PE 27428F funds range contracts and operations and maintenance for NTTR
       and UTTR. The O&M funding support funds technical and service contracts to maintain
       the basic infrastructure for scoring activities; threat simulators; civilian labor and
       associated supplies, travel, and training; and other range maintenance such as road
       maintenance, target construction, and range cleanup. NTTR supports large force exercise
       training as well as operational test activities. UTTR is primarily an overland, long range
AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014                                                                    5


     weapons test range. Budget oversight for the PE is provided by ACC/A3A and AF/A3O-
     BA.
     3.5.2. Resource Planning. Resources are funded institutionally and by MRTFB
     customers. DoD customers using the MRTFB are charged only direct costs for testing.
     Per the FMR, DoD 7000.14-R, non-DoD customers may be charged additional indirect
     costs. The institutional resources are planned and programmed by ACC during the PPBE
     process. MRTFB customer funds are planned and programmed by the customer.
  3.6. ACC MRTFB Investments. There is no dedicated PE for investment on NTTR and
  UTTR. Investments for training assets are provided by PE 27429F which is the investment
  PE for all training ranges. Budget oversight for the PE is provided by ACC/A5T.
  3.7. Central Test and Evaluation Investment Program (CTEIP). The OSD in 1990
  established the CTEIP PE 64940D in response to congressional direction to improve the
  coordination and planning of investments in RDT&E capabilities. PE 64940D is managed by
  TRMC and AF/TER provides oversight for Air Force-led CTEIP projects. The program
  includes the development of T&E capabilities to promote range commonality and
  interoperability among the Services. CTEIP has two main investment categories: Joint
  Improvement and Modernization (JIM) and Resource Enhancement Project (REP). Execution
  of JIM and REP projects is detailed in the appropriate Planning and Execution Guide
  developed by TRMC. CTEIP project execution oversight is the responsibility of the OSD
  Test Investment Coordinating Committee (OTICC), which has Service representation from
  the Air Force, Army, and Navy. The AF/TER Division Chief is the Air Force OTICC
  member.
     3.7.1. Joint Improvement and Modernization (JIM). JIM projects are developed bi-
     annually through the Reliance process, endorsed by the T&E executives and submitted to
     TRMC for funding. Projects address critically needed T&E functional area investments
     and comprise the bulk of CTEIP investment funds. JIM projects must be developmental
     in nature and usually have multi-Service applicability.
     3.7.2. JIM Resource Planning. The Reliance process is used to identify, validate and
     prioritize JIM candidate projects. Test capability needs are submitted by uploading these
     into the Technology Development Acquisition Program (TDAP) database for
     consideration by the appropriate Reliance Panel. The Reliance Panels review and
     prioritize the needs for review by the T&E executives. The T&E executives select the
     needs for solution development and submit a prioritized list of the top projects to TRMC.
     TRMC provides funds for selected projects. Studies may be initiated to assure TRMC
     that a project is clearly defined, required, and affordable. A lead-Service is assigned to
     oversee the endorsed and funded projects. AF/TER has oversight of Air Force projects.
     3.7.3. Resource Enhancement Project (REP). REP projects are developed annually
     through a data call for candidate projects. REP funds near-term shortfalls in operational
     test capabilities. REP funding is appropriate when the timeframe between the
     identification of a test need and critical test dates does not allow enough time in the
     budget cycle to program for the required capability. REP projects are typically one to
     two year projects.
6                                                             AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014


       3.7.4. REP Resource Planning. The REP Working Group manages the project
       identification and funding process. The REP Working Group is co-chaired by TRMC
       and Director, Operational Test & Evaluation (DOT&E) and consists of representatives
       from each Service and the Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC), Threat Systems
       Office, Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) and other DoD agencies. AF/TER provides
       the Air Force REP Working Group member. Air Force proposed projects are identified
       through an Operational Test Investment Panel (OTIP). The panel members include
       AF/TER and Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC). The OTIP
       recommends projects and relative priorities to AF/TE. AF/TE endorses the proposals and
       forwards them to TRMC and DOT&E for funding consideration through the REP
       Working Group. DOT&E makes the final decisions on prioritization and approval of all
       REP candidates and TRMC provides execution oversight of funded projects.
    3.8. Test and Evaluation/Science and Technology (T&E/S&T). OSD PE 63941D funds
    T&E/S&T projects. The projects exploit new technologies and expedite their transition to
    T&E capabilities. They support risk reduction and Technology Readiness Level (TRL)
    maturity for multiservice JIM projects as well as Service I&M projects. TRMC manages
    T&E/S&T with a designated Service program manager to provide project oversight. Initial
    focus areas are T&E/S&T proposals come from the Services, other DoD agencies, academia,
    and industry partners. TRMC publishes program details, including Focus Area Roadmaps
    and projects, annually in the Test Technology Area Plan (TTAP).
       3.8.1. T&E/S&T Operations.        The T&E/S&T Program Manager (PM) selects
       Executing Agents (EAs) from the Services to initiate and manage projects within the
       program’s Test Technology Areas (TTAs).
       3.8.2. Resource Planning. The EAs chair TTA Tri-Service working groups to identify
       and evaluate T&E technology needs and recommend candidate proposals for funding.
       Annually, the EAs develop and submit a prioritized list of candidate technologies to the
       T&E/S&T PM. For selected candidates, Broad Area Announcements (BAAs) are sent to
       DoD Agencies, Academia, and Industry for proposals to develop the technology. The
       T&E/S&T PM selects the best proposals and TRMC makes the final decision on funding.
       In coordination with AF/TER, the T&E/S&T PM selects Project Managers for Air Force
       T&E/S&T programs.
    3.9. Threat Systems Program (TSP). OSD PEs 64940D and 65804D fund threat system
    initiatives. TSP is not a CTEIP program, but CTEIP funds can be used for these projects.
       3.9.1. TSP Projects. The projects anticipate threat simulator shortfalls by applying new
       technologies and innovations to improve threat representations. Threat simulators
       include digital models and simulations, hardware simulators, and hybrid (hardware and
       software) representations. Coordination and management of threat simulator investments
       are accomplished through the Threat Systems Working Group (TSWG) and chaired by a
       representative from the Test and Evaluation Threat Resource Activity (TETRA).
       Members are comprised of the offices of the Service T&E principals and DIA. AF/TER
       is the Air Force member on the TSWG. Other participants, to include DOT&E, can be
       called upon as required. DOT&E makes final decisions on priorities and funding
       approval.
AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014                                                                      7


       3.9.2. Resource Planning. TSP projects are reviewed semiannually and funded
       annually. TETRA manages the proposal, evaluation and funding process with active
       participation by each Service, TRMC, and DOT&E. Proposals are submitted through the
       Services to the TSWG. AF/TER leads an Air Force peer technical review of all Air
       Force submitted proposals. TSWG recommends funding priorities to TETRA. TETRA
       reviews the proposals and funding priorities with DOT&E and TRMC. TETRA notifies
       the Services and/or agencies of approved projects and issues a Test Package Directive
       (TPD). The Air Force projects are typically executed by the submitting organization with
       AF/TER oversight.
4. Test Resource Usage.
   4.1. Securing T&E Ranges and Facilities. Test planners must contact potential test sites
   early to obtain estimates of costs and availability.
   4.2. Use of Government Test Facilities. Test customers should take full advantage of
   investments in DoD ranges and facilities, and other resources, including the use of embedded
   instrumentation. They should plan to use Air Force T&E facilities first, followed by other
   DoD facilities next.
   4.3. Use of Non-Government Facilities. Non-Government and/or contractor facilities
   should be used only when government facilities are not available or are impractical to use. If
   the T&E strategy or Integrated Test Plan calls for testing at non-government facilities, the
   PM must conduct a cost benefit analysis and provide that analysis and any facility
   requirements to the appropriate contracting activity. The PM will support the acquisition
   process as required and will document the final award in the Test and Evaluation Master Plan
   (TEMP).
5. Test Resource Reporting. Test and evaluation resource funding will be reported IAW DoD
7000.14-R, FMR, Vol 2B, Chapter 19. The MRTFB budget exhibits are required semi-annually
and support the Air Force POM and the President’s Budget (PB). The Budget exhibits will be
consistent with the RDT&E Exhibit R-2 Descriptive Summary as well as other budgetary
submission material. The exhibits will use the format described in DoD 7000.14-R FMR, Vol
2B, Chapter 19. Each MRTFB activity will submit budget exhibits through the MAJCOM to
AF/TER.
6. Responsibilities.
   6.1. AF/TE
       6.1.1. Provide corporate Air Force management perspectives on MRTFB T&E resources
       for infrastructure and investments (modernization, improvement and sustainment) with
       respect to Air Force, OSD and Government-wide test requirements, to include
       appropriate derivative guidance for the Air Force POM and PB preparation efforts.
       6.1.2. Advocate test resource concerns with affected Air Staff organizations and with and
       other DoD activities.
       6.1.3. Serve as Air Force focal point for MRTFB customer charging policy and issues.
       6.1.4. Serve as Air Force focal point for MRTFB Budget Exhibits.
       6.1.5. Serve as Air Force focal point for annual TRMC T&E Budget certification.
8                                                                AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014


      6.1.6. Establish guidance for Air Force MRTFB test resource improvement and
      modernization. (See DoDD 3200.11 and DoDI 3200.18). As part of this responsibility:
         6.1.6.1. Provide direction for test resource improvement and modernization
         programs.
         6.1.6.2. Issue a consolidated, corporate T&E strategy for tradeoffs between
         operations and sustainment of current T&E resources and the improvement and
         modernization of current or proposed T&E resources. This strategy must consider tri-
         Service T&E and DoD Agency capabilities and requirements, especially when
         capabilities are added or deleted. Unwarranted duplication of capabilities is to be
         avoided.
      6.1.7. Manage AFMC T&E PEs at the Air Staff as the Program Element Monitor (PEM).
      As part of this responsibility:
         6.1.7.1. Establish appropriate AF PEs to budget test resource investments.
         6.1.7.2. Provide program guidance and oversight for AF test resource PEs.
      6.1.8. Serve as the Air Force focal point for all Joint Service test resource initiatives:
         6.1.8.1. Serve as Air Force representative and focal point for the OSD CTEIP as
         OTICC member.
         6.1.8.2. Submit Air Force test resource investment projects for potential CTEIP
         funding through the Reliance process.
         6.1.8.3. Serve as Air Force representative and focal point for the TSWG
         6.1.8.4. Serve as the Air Force representative on the T&E Board of Directors
         Executive Secretariat (BoD(ES)).
         6.1.8.5. Serve as AF REP working group member.
      6.1.9. Assess the resource needs imposed on the T&E community by DoD, Air Force,
      Congress, and other regulatory requirements. Alert the community of impending changes
      to regulations that will require additional resources.
      6.1.10. Coordinate AF/TE proposed guidance affecting financial management with the
      appropriate SAF/FMB and SAF/AQ offices.
    6.2. AF/A3O-BA
      6.2.1. Provide corporate Air Force management perspectives on integrating ACC T&E
      resource activities with test and training mission resources and requirements for
      infrastructure and investments (modernization, improvement and sustainment) with
      respect to Air Force, OSD, and government-wide requirements to include appropriate
      derivative guidance for POM and PB preparation efforts.
      6.2.2. Serve as PEM for ACC T&E PEs.
      6.2.3. Provide program guidance and oversight for ACC PEs to ensure appropriate and
      effective integration of operational and T&E requirements.
      6.2.4. Serve as Air Force focal point for all Air Force, DoD, civil and commercial
      resource concerns affecting ACC test and training activities.
AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014                                                                  9


     6.2.5. Serve as Air Force focal point for negotiating and resolving operational and T&E
     issues affecting the training mission. Assess the resource needs imposed on the
     operational and T&E communities by DoD, Air Force, Joint Service, civil, and other
     regulatory requirements. Alert the community of impending changes to regulations that
     will require additional resources.
  6.3. SAF/SP. Ensure Air Force space activities are properly integrated and coordinated
  across DoD and with civil agencies by providing corporate Air Force management
  perspectives on integrating AFSPC MRTFB T&E resource activities with test and training
  mission resources and requirements for infrastructure and investments (modernization,
  improvement and sustainment) with respect to Air Force, OSD, and government-wide
  requirements.
  6.4. AF/A3SO
     6.4.1. Serve as PEM for AFSPC T&E PEs with O&M funding.
     6.4.2. Provide program guidance and oversight for AFSPC T&E PEs with O&M funding
     to ensure appropriate and effective integration of operational and T&E requirements to
     include appropriate derivative guidance for POM and PB preparation efforts.
     6.4.3. Serve as Air Force focal point for all Air Force, DoD, civil and commercial
     resource concerns affecting AFSPC test and training activities.
     6.4.4. Serve as Air Force focal point for negotiating and resolving operational and T&E
     issues affecting the training mission. Assess the resource needs imposed on the
     operational and T&E communities by DoD, Air Force, Joint Service, civil, and other
     regulatory requirements. Alert the community of impending changes to regulations that
     will require additional resources.
  6.5. SAF/AQSL
     6.5.1. Serve as PEM for AFSPC T&E PEs with RDT&E funding.
     6.5.2. Provide program guidance and oversight for AFSPC T&E PEs with RDT&E
     funding to ensure appropriate and effective integration of operational and T&E
     requirements to include appropriate derivative guidance for POM and PB preparation
     efforts.
  6.6. MAJCOMs (AFMC/A3F, AFSPC/A3SR and ACC/A3A)
     6.6.1. Plan, program, budget, and monitor programs in accordance with the PPBE
     process for MAJCOM T&E resources.
     6.6.2. Provide oversight of MRTFB T&E resources activities.
     6.6.3. Assist AF/TE to develop and implement policy for test resources included in the
     Air Force MRTFB.
     6.6.4. Assist technical points of contact for investments in developing test resource
     investment roadmaps for subsequent submittal for consideration to AF/TE.
     6.6.5. Plan test resource investment and modernization efforts to improve the efficiency
     and cost-effectiveness of Air Force T&E capabilities.
10                                                         AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014


     6.6.6. Solicit and validate test resource requirements/needs from the MAJCOM T&E
     community.
     6.6.7. Serve as MAJCOM T&E capability area expert in test investment resource
     planning.
     6.6.8. Distribute and oversee execution of MAJCOM T&E investment funds.
     6.6.9. Assess the resource needs imposed on the AFMC T&E community by other DoD,
     Air Force, and other regulatory requirements. Alert the community of impending changes
     to regulations that will require additional resources, make recommendations on
     organizational changes, necessary to comply with the regulations, and reprogram funds
     when possible to meet these requirements.
     6.6.10. Serve as focal point for MAJCOM MRTFB budget exhibits.
     6.6.11. AFMC/A3F
        6.6.11.1. Monitor resources for both AF FMP and ECIS resources as directed by
        AF/TEZ.
        6.6.11.2. Manage the TIPP process. Include results in the AFMC POM.
        6.6.11.3. Validate TIPP process projects, coordinate with AF/TE, and submit tri-
        Service candidate proposals to the appropriate Reliance Panels for CTEIP funding
        consideration.
        6.6.11.4. Monitor execution of Air Force-executed OSD T&E investment funds for
        JIM projects.
  6.7. Other Air Force Activities. Air Force MRTFB locations, AFOTEC, laboratories, air
  logistics centers, or specialty test sites will support the planning of T&E resource
  requirements, as necessary.




                                        RANDALL G. WALDEN
                                        Director, Test and Evaluation
AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014                                                                  11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management Regulation, June 2011
DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB), 27 December 2007
DoDI 3200.18, Management and Operation of the Major Range and Test Facility Base
(MRTFB), 1 February 2010
DoDI 5134.16, Deputy Assistance Secretary of Defense for Systems Engineering (DASD(SE)),
19 Aug 2011
AFPD 13-6, Space Policy, 13 August 2013
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFI 61-101, Management of Science and Technology, 14 March 2013
AFI 63-118, Civil Engineer Research, Development, and Acquisition, 29 April 1994
AFI 65-601, Vol I, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013
AFI 99-114, Foreign Materiel Program, 25 October 2002
Concept of Operations for the Test and Evaluation Executive Agent, September 2008
Concept of Operations for the Test and Evaluation Executive Agent Reliance Panels, March
2011

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Complex
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFTC—Air Force Test Center
BAA—Broad Agency Announcement
BoD(ES)—Board of Directors Executive Secretariat, T&E Executive Agent
 12                                                    AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014


C4ISR—Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance
CTEIP—Central Test and Evaluation Investment Program
DASD (DT&E)—Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Developmental Test and
Evaluation
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DOT&E—Director, Operational Test and Evaluation
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
EA—Executing Agent
ECIS—Electronic Combat Intelligence Support
EW—Electronic Warfare
FMP—Foreign Materiel Program
FMR—Financial Management Regulation
I&M—Improvement and Modernization
IAW—In Accordance With
JIM—Joint Improvement and Modernization
JITC—Joint Interoperability Test Command
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MRTFB—Major Range and Test Facility Base
NRTF—National Radar Cross-Section Test Facility
NTTR—Nevada Test and Training Range
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
OTICC—OSD Test Investment Coordinating Committee
OTIP—Operations Test Investment Panel
PB—President’s Budget
PE—Program Element
PEM—Program Element Monitor
AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014                                                                     13


PM—Program Manager
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
REP—Resource Enhancement Project
S&T—Science and Technology
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TDAP—Technology Development Acquisition Program
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TETRA—Test and Evaluation Threat Resource Activity
TIPP—Test Investment Planning and Programming
TPD—Test Package Directive
TRL—Technology Readiness Level
TRMC—Test Resource Management Center
TSP—Threat Systems Program
TSWG—Threat Systems Working Group
TTA—Test Technology Area
TTAP—Test Technology Area Plan
USAF—United States Air Force
UTTR—Utah Test and Training Range

Terms
Note: Joint Publication 1—02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated
Terms and Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 1-02, Air Force Supplement, contain
standardized terms for Department of Defense and Air Force use.
Customer Funding— Reimbursable Budget Authority (RBA) funding, in addition to financing
direct Air Force requirements, specifically identified for procurement of materiel or services to
support customer orders received.
Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E)— Test and evaluation conducted to evaluate
design approaches, validate analytical models, quantify contract technical performance and
manufacturing quality, measure progress in system engineering design and development,
minimize design risks, predict integrated system operational performance (effectiveness and
suitability) in the intended environment, and identify system problems (or deficiencies) to allow
 14                                                            AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014


for early and timely resolution. DT&E includes contractor testing and is conducted over the life
of the system to support acquisition and sustainment efforts. (AFI 99-103)
Direct Costs— Costs that are readily identifiable to, and consumed by, the use of the facility or
resource for testing under a particular program. See AFI 65-601, Vol 1, para 7.52.2.1 for
additional description.
Indirect Costs— Is the jointly or commonly used costs of maintaining, operating, upgrading,
and modernizing the facility or resource. See AFI 65-601, Vol 1, para 7.52.2.2 for additional
description.
Institutional Funding— Direct Budget Authority (DBA) funding appropriated and allocated to
the MRTFB.
Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB)— A national asset that shall be sized,
operated, and maintained primarily for DoD T&E support missions, but also may, in accordance
with DoDD 3200.11, be available to non-DoD users having a valid requirement for its
capabilities.
Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E)— (1) The field test, under realistic combat
conditions, of any item of (or key component of) weapons, equipment, or munitions for the
purpose of determining the effectiveness and suitability of the weapons, equipment, or munitions
for use in combat by typical military users; and the evaluation of the results of such test. (2)
Testing and evaluation conducted in as realistic an operational environment as possible to
estimate the prospective system's operational effectiveness, suitability, and operational
capabilities. In addition, OT&E provides information on organization, personnel requirements,
doctrine, and tactics. It may also provide data to support or verify material in operating
instructions, publications, and handbooks. Note: The generic term OT&E is often substituted
for IOT&E, QOT&E, FOT&E, OUE, or FDE, and depending on the context, can have the same
meaning as those terms. (AFI 99-103)
Reliance Panels— "Concept of Operations for the Test and Evaluation Executive Agent
Reliance Panels” establishes roles and responsibilities for T&E Reliance Panels. T&E Reliance
Panels provide technical support to the T&E EA in execution of planning, infrastructure
management, and investment management. They are structured into 11 functional T&E Reliance
technical areas. The mission of the Reliance Panels is to evaluate test capability needs and
proposed solutions and conduct studies as tasked by the Board of Directors Executive
Secretariat. The Panels are composed of field level technical experts.
Reliance Process— Reliance Process is described in “Concept of Operations for the Test and
Evaluation Executive Agent”. The Services created the T&E Reliance Process in 1990 to identify
and eliminate unnecessary duplication involving T&E resources between the Services and
Defense Agencies, and to improve overall T&E resource management through greater
cooperation and interdependence among the Services. Reliance Process generally includes
Process Preparation, Process Training, Needs Identification, Needs Adjudication, Solutions
Development, Enhanced Solution Phase (ESP) execution, and Reliance Panel Reports. Reliance
Process produces Reliance Panel Reports capturing endorsed Service Investments, and
nominations for Central Test and Evaluation Investment Program.
Test and Evaluation (T&E)— The act of generating empirical data during the research,
development or sustainment of systems, and the creation of information through analysis that is
AFI99-109 22 JANUARY 2014                                                                    15


useful to technical personnel and decision makers for reducing design and acquisition risks. The
process by which systems are measured against requirements and specifications, and the results
analyzed so as to gauge progress and provide feedback. (AFI 99-103)
Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP)— Documents the overall structure and objectives
of the T&E program. It provides a framework within which to generate detailed T&E plans and
it documents schedule and resource implications associated with the T&E program. The TEMP
identifies the necessary developmental, operational, and live-fire test activities. It relates
program schedule, test management strategy and structure, and required resources to: Critical
Operational Issues (COIs); Critical Technical Parameters (CTPs); objectives and thresholds
documented in the requirements document; and milestone decision points. The program
manager and the lead operational test organization update the TEMP at each major milestone or
any time there is a significant change to the test program. The TEMP is exit criteria for
Milestone A (Output of the Technology Development Phase) and a requirement for Milestone B
and C decisions. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
