                        DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                  OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX (AFMC)
                       TINKER AIR FORCE BASE OKLAHOMA


                                                AFI91-203_OC-ALCSUP_OC-ALCGM2014-01

                                                                                9 September 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION E

FROM: OC-ALC/CC
SUBJECT: OC-ALC Guidance Memorandum (GM) to AFI 91-203_OC-ALCSUP

1. By Order of the Commander, Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex, this GM immediately
reinstates policies and procedures associated with the rescinded OC-ALC Operating Instructions
(OI) identified below. The reinstatement of rescinded policies and procedures will be in
conjunction with implementation of the current AFI 91-203_OC-ALCSUP. When referencing
policy and procedures, duplicating or conflicting information will be adjudicated by the policy’s
original instruction. All forms associated with the current version of the AFI 91-203_OC-
ALCSUP will remain operable for the duration of this GM. The purpose of this reinstatement is
to maintain current practices and allow changes to be made to the current version of the OC-ALC
Supplement to AF 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction.

   a. OC-ALCOI 91-12, Emergency Eyewash and Shower Inspection Procedures.

   b. OC-ALCOI 91-25, Confined Space Entry Program.

  c. OC-ALCOI 91-31, Personal Protective Clothing and Equipment and Appropriate
Employee Attire in Industrial Areas.

2. Changes to the OC-ALC Supplement to AFI 91-203 are needed in order to implement
consistent guidance that was either removed or inadvertently left out during consolidation of the
rescinded instructions.

3. This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, an interim change, or rewrite of the affected publication, whichever is earlier.




                                             DONALD E. KIRKLAND
                                             Brig Gen, USAF
                                             Commander

Attachment
Memorandum of Understanding OC-ALC OI, 19 Jun 14
      DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX (AFMC)
     TINKER AIR FORCE BASE OKLAHOMA
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-203
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS
COMPLEX                                                  OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS
                                                                            COMPLEX
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                   7 MAY 2014

                                                                                         Safety

                                                          AIR FORCE CONSOLIDATED
                                                 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY INSTRUCTION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/SE                                                        Certified by: OC-ALC/SE
                                                                            (Mr. Kevin McCoy)
                                                                                       Pages: 7


This standalone supplements the guidance in AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational
Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012, and applies to the Oklahoma City Air Logistic Complex (OC-
ALC) and associated facilities. This OC-ALC supplement rescinds OC-ALC Operating
Instructions 91-12, 91-25 and 91-31 in their entirety. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

3.1.1.2. (Added) Review Risk Management (RM) analysis or shop specific Industrial Hygiene
(IH) Letter in addition to JSAs and SDSs to determine the proper PPE for the task being
performed. The applicable OC-ALC/SE group safety office, the OC-ALC Environmental and
Occupational Health Compliance Assurance office (776 MXSS/MXDEB) or Bioenvironmental
Engineering Flight (BEF), may be contacted for assistance. When workplace hazard assessments
specify certain PPE for the task, the PPE becomes mandatory.
3.1.2.11. (Added) The use of portable headphones, earphones, cellular phones (including
texting), iPods, or other listening and entertainment devices (other than hearing aids) while
 2                                                      AFI91-203_OC-ALCSUP 7 MAY 2014


walking, bicycling, or driving in OC-ALC facilities is prohibited. Use of these portable devices
impairs recognition of emergency signals, alarms, announcements, approaching vehicles, human
speech and outside noise in general. Note: The use of a portable listening device while
employees are at their workstation is not included in this requirement so long as the device does
not hinder the performance of the task being completed.
3.1.2.12. (Added) Safety barriers shall be installed or eye hazard producing equipment/tools
moved away from facility walking aisles, open administrative areas and break areas.
8.18.1.1. (Added) Unless the supervisor can demonstrate that deenergizing introduces
additional or increased hazards or is infeasible due to equipment design or operational
limitations, the circuit shall be deenergized and locked/tagged out. Inconvenience, poor planning
or loss of production are not valid exceptions for working energized. Live parts that operate at
less than 50 volts to ground need not be deenergized if there will be no increased exposure to
electrical burns or to explosion due to electric arcs.
12.4.7.1. (Added) If a holder cannot be utilized during special operations, a JSA will identify
controls that eliminate or minimize, to the greatest extent possible, laceration hazards (e.g.,
personnel must wear cut resistant gloves).
13.2.7. (Added) Supervisors shall seek support from the OC-ALC safety office and designated
group engineering office to determine the most applicable fall protection system to utilize for all
hazards.
14.4.1.1. (Added) Protective clothing and/or equipment are provided to protect against
biological, chemical or physical hazards and do not include normal work or seasonal clothing.
Seasonal clothing items include parkas, cold weather footwear, thermal underwear and other
articles, whether listed or not in appropriate table of allowance.
14.4.1.2. (Added) Areas will be marked with appropriate signage to indicate the required PPE
in the hazardous areas. See Chapter 29, Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags, for further
information.
14.4.2.7.1. (Added) Personnel who have purchased their own prescription safety glasses
classified as industrial safety glasses and meeting ASSE/ANSI Standard Z87.1, may use them as
long as the use of such glasses do not pose a hazard. Supervisors will evaluate personal safety
glasses to ensure they are in compliance.
14.4.2.7.2. (Added) Prescription safety glasses (unless personally acquired) will be obtained
from the Occupational Vision Office located in the Occupational Medicine Clinic, building 3334,
using OC-ALC Form 103, Request for Safety Eyewear.
14.4.2.7.2.1. (Added) The workplace supervisor will provide employees with an OC-ALC
Form 103. The supervisor and employee must collaborate to complete the form. The supervisor
must then sign the form to confirm that the employee is required to have the prescription safety
glasses.
14.4.2.7.2.2. (Added) Employees will submit the form to the authorized prescription safety
glasses government purchase card (GPC) holder for their organization and obtain the proper
tracking code in block 1 before submitting the form to the Occupational Vision Office.
AFI91-203_OC-ALCSUP 7 MAY 2014                                                                  3


14.4.2.7.2.3. (Added) Employee will then present the completed form and prescription to the
Occupational Vision Office. The Occupational Vision Office will not honor prescriptions that
are more than one-year old.
14.4.2.10.1. (Added) Prescription lenses for spectacle inserts to be used with full-face
respirators will be obtained from the Occupational Vision Office, using OC-ALC Form 103. The
procedures as outlined for obtaining prescription safety glasses will be used. The employee’s
organization is responsible for supplying the appropriate spectacle insert frames.
14.4.10.3. (Added) The Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) Concerning Commercial Safety
Shoe Purchase Option entered into by the American Federation of Government Employees
(AFGE) Council 214 and HQ AFMC authorizes employees that are required to wear protective
footwear the following options for obtaining safety shoes.
14.4.10.3.1. (Added) Custom orthopedic safety shoes will be paid in full by the government
for valid and appropriate medical reasons IAW applicable regulations.
14.4.10.3.2. (Added) Safety shoes from an approved commercial source, with the employer
paying no more than the amount authorized in the above referenced MOA.
14.4.10.3.3. (Added) When safety shoes become excessively worn or the condition of the
footwear becomes deteriorated they will be replaced as needed. Supervisors must conduct a
replacement evaluation upon notification from the employee meeting the criteria listed above or
identified during a shop inspection. Once replacements are provided, employees will turn in
unserviceable shoes to their supervisors for disposal as refuse. Note: When the potential exists
for shoes to be contaminated with hazardous materials, contact the unit environmental
coordinator for disposal procedures.
14.4.10.4. (Added) Safety toe caps are authorized for use in areas that do not have sole
puncture hazards, i.e., constructions sites, as long as they meet the requirements of paragraph
14.4.10.1.
14.4.2.17. (Added) Safety glasses will be worn while in the industrial area by all personnel
near work processes that have potential for eye injuries. Safety glasses and side shields shall be
ANSI Z87.1 approved. Shops may implement stricter safety glass usage requirements as needed.
These local policies will be documented in the shops Job Safety Training Outline (JSTO) or
another approved method. Examples of potential eye hazards in the shop area requiring safety
glasses would be:
14.4.2.17.1. (Added) Operators and individuals in the immediate task area of an operating
lathe, mill, sander, rivet knocker, hammer, drill, grinder or other equipment or tools capable of
throwing chipped material. Machine operators are not required to wear safety glasses if the
material being worked is fully enclosed (example: HAAS machine, Kellenberger, etc.).
14.4.2.17.2. (Added) Tool users and individuals in the immediate task area of anemployee
cutting safety wire.
14.4.2.17.3. (Added) Individuals using pneumatic tools.
14.4.2.17.4. (Added) Other eye hazard as determined by the shop supervisor or local safety &
health staff.
 4                                                     AFI91-203_OC-ALCSUP 7 MAY 2014


14.5.10.2. (Added) However, personnel using marked/painted crosswalks and/or lighted
pedestrian walkways between a parking lot and their work area (for example, buildings 2121,
2136 or 2122) are not required to wear reflective equipment or apparel (such as belts, coats and
backpacks with reflective material).
19.9. Maintenance and Testing.
19.9.2.1. (Added) The supervisor or worker shall document the inspection using the OC-ALC
Form 912, Emergency Eyewash/Shower Monthly Inspection Record, or other approved method.
This form will be kept for a period of 30 days after completing the last entry on the form.
Methods of documentation other than the OC-ALC Form 912 shall be prior-approved by the
applicable ground safety office.
19.9.3.1. (Added) Supervisors will annotate fluid change on OC-ALC Form 912 or other
approved method with their name under the appropriate month.
19.9.3.2. (Added) Self-contained units with sealed chambers shall be visually inspected
monthly to ensure each has not been tampered with and the visual inspection shall be
documented. Remove from service all self-contained units that have breached or broken seals.
19.9.3.3. (Added) For self-contained units that utilize a sterile solution in sealed bags with
expiration dates, the inspection criteria provided in OC-ALC Form 912 or other approved
method shall be followed.
19.9.3.4. (Added) Self-contained units shall not be exposed to extreme cold temperatures
(10°F) without freeze protection available from the manufacturer (i.e., insulated heater jacket).
19.9.3.5. (Added) Self-contained units shall not be exposed to extreme heat temperatures for a
prolonged period of time. Prolonged exposure to extreme heat can result in the unit delivering
flushing fluid to the user above 100°F, which presents a hazard in itself.
23.2.5.9.1. (Added) Equivalent forms that include all of the information shown on AF Form
1024, Confined Spaces Entry Permit, may be used. The following forms in Figure A23.1. may
be used in the (76 AMXG).

Figure A23.1. (Added) Forms 76th Aircraft Maintenance Group May use




23.2.6.1. (Added) The OC-ALC Safety Office will manage the Confined Space Program for
the OC-ALC. OC-ALC/SE will appoint a Confined Space Program Manager to assist
commanders, functional managers, and supervisors with oversight of the confined space
program. The OC-ALC/SE Confined Space Program Manager will represent the ALC on the
Tinker AFB confined space program team.
AFI91-203_OC-ALCSUP 7 MAY 2014                                                                  5


23.2.7.1.1. (Added) Group commanders will ensure their confined space program is reviewed
annually and will approve the annual review in writing.
23.2.7.4.1. (Added) Review the listing of confined spaces annually and ensure that known
confined spaces are reassessed to determine if they should continue to be included on the
organization’s listing. Approve the confined space listing annually, in writing.
23.2.11.1.1. (Added) Supervisors will reassess known confined spaces for changes in hazards,
tasks, or conditions. Any changes will be reported to the CSPT and to the OC-ALC Confined
Space Program Manager.
23.3.3.8.4. (Added) Atmospheric readings will be taken at the entry point and progressively
towards the furthest point where maintenance operations extend inside the permit-required
confined space. The worst case reading will be recorded. For all permit-required non-MEP
entries, request atmospheric testing from BEF at 734-7844.
23.3.3.9. (Added) Any employee who suspects that a new area is a confined space or contains
a confined space will report it to their supervisor. The supervisor will then initiate an OC-ALC
Form 132, Request for Confined Space Assessment, and submit the form to the respective OC-
ALC/SE group safety office.
23.3.3.10. (Added) Safety specialists from the respective group safety office will then begin
the assessment process by reviewing the OC-ALC Form 132 and conducting an initial site survey
to determine if the suspect area meets the definition and criteria of a confined space.
23.3.3.11. After the respective group safety office determines that the suspect area is a confined
space, the respective group safety office will then forward the OC-ALC Form 132 to the OC-
ALC confined space program manager for evaluation. The OC-ALC CSPT will then evaluate
the confined space and further classify the confined space as either a permit-required or a non-
permit-required confined space. The OC-ALC CSPT will classify the space in conjunction with
the respective group safety office and work area supervisors/functional managers.
23.5.1. (Added) All entry permits must be coordinated through the respective OC-ALC/SE
group safety office. The permit-required confined space entry operation will be controlled by the
entry authority/supervisor or designated alternate entry authority/supervisor, who must be
available to all entry participants. The approved entry permit must remain at the confined space
entry site until the entry is completed or the permit expires, whichever occurs first.
23.5.1.2.1. (Added) Locations of organizational files of entry permits must be reported to the
OC-ALC Confined Space Program Manager by the organizations/persons responsible for the
entry permit files.
23.5.4.6.1. (Added) All entry supervisors/entry authorities or designated alternates will notify
Tinker FES via the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) at 736-2500 prior to and at the
termination of all permit-required confined space entries. The MOC will also be notified of all
confined space emergencies. Upon notification of the confined space emergency, the MOC is
responsible for informing all other OC-ALC units that are conducting permit-required confined
space entries to terminate the entries until the rescue team is available.
23.6.1.2.1. (Added) Tinker FES is the only authorized permit-required confined space rescue
team for OC-ALC.
 6                                                     AFI91-203_OC-ALCSUP 7 MAY 2014


24.2.10. (Added) Moving Equipment Around Aircraft: All B-series maintenance stands,
powered mobile work platforms, scissor lifts and boom lifts being moved within 10 feet of an
aircraft require a spotter along with the personnel required to move the equipment. The spotter
will insure the equipment does not contact the aircraft structure during positioning. The spotter
is required to maintain visual contact with the equipment and the aircraft along with voice
communications to personnel operating/moving the equipment.




                                            DONALD E. KIRKLAND
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI91-203_OC-ALCSUP 7 MAY 2014                                                     7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
OC-ALC Form 132, Request for Confined Space Assessment
OC-ALC Form 169, Field Entry Permit
OC-ALC Form 912, Emergency Eyewash/Shower Monthly Inspection Record
OC-ALC Form 1024-B, B-1 Entry Permit
OC-ALC Form 1024-C, E-3/E-6 Entry Permit
OC-ALC Form 1024-D, B-52 Entry Permit
OC-ALC Form 1024-DP, De-paint Confined Space Entry Permit
OC-ALC Form 1024-K, KC-135 Confined Space Entry Permit
OC-ALC Form 1024-P, Paint Confined Space Entry Permit
Adopted Forms
OC-ALC Form 103, Request for Prescription Eyewear

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BEF—Bioenvironmental Flight
CSPT—Confined Space Program Team
JSA—Job Safety Analysis
OC-ALC—Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
OC-ALC/SE—Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Safety Office
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
SDS—Safety Data Sheet (formerly MSDS)
Tinker FES—Tinker Fire Emergency Services
