BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-803
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               24 MARCH 2010

                                                                           Special Management

                                                      ENVIRONMENTAL, SAFETY, AND
                                                 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH COMPLIANCE
                                                     ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT
                                                                       PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/IEE                                                                Certified by: SAF/IE
                                                                                (Debra K. Tune)
                                                                                       Pages: 29


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety, and
Occupational Health (ESOH), dated 1 Sep 04. It provides guidance for establishing an
assessment process designed to ensure compliance with federal, state, and local environmental
laws, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, as well as
Department of Defense (DoD), and Air Force policies and instructions. The assessment process
is also intended to ascertain the status of ESOH program performance by evaluating
conformance to the corresponding standard selected by each functional community. The term
safety in this AFI refers to ground safety only. For overseas areas, "DoD requirements" include
applicable requirements of international agreements and country-specific Final Governing
Standards (FGS). Where no country-specific FGS exists, DoD requirements include applicable
requirements of international agreements and the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance
Document (OEBGD). This Instruction applies to personnel at all active and reserve Air Force
components worldwide, at all government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) facilities as well
as for government personnel working in contractor-owned facilities. This publication also
applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. All
applicable personnel shall ensure records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS), which is located at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Recommended changes and questions about this publication are to be referred to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command/Air National
Guard/Direct Reporting Units (MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs) publications/forms managers. This
2                                                                                                 AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


Instruction does not apply to Air Force installations or activities acquired or controlled on a
temporary basis during the conduct or in support of planned or on-going contingency operations.
At such installations and activities, follow the terms of applicable international agreements and
the environmental annex of applicable OPORD or other operational directive. This publication
requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
(Title 5 United States Code, Section 552a). The authorities to collect and/or maintain the records
prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code, Sections 8013 and 8067(d), and
Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons,
as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397, Relating to
Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers. Forms affected by the Privacy Act (PA) must
have an appropriate PA statement.



Chapter 1—HOW TO USE THIS INSTRUCTION                                                                                                       3
       1.1.    Background: ...........................................................................................................      3
       1.2.    Concept: .................................................................................................................   3
       1.3.    Findings: ................................................................................................................   4
       1.4.    Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................      4

Chapter 2—ESOHCAMP PROCEDURES                                                                                                               11
       2.1.    Tier 1, Routine Self-Assessments: .........................................................................                  11
       2.2.    Tier 2, Installation-level Assessments: ..................................................................                   11
       2.3.    Tier 3 External Assessments: .................................................................................               13

Chapter 3—ESOHCAMP DATA MANAGEMENT PROCESS                                                                                                  18
       3.1.    Tier 2 and Tier 3 ESOH Data Management: .........................................................                            18
       3.2.    Information Reporting Requirements: ...................................................................                      18
       3.3.    Release of ESOHCAMP Documents and Data: ....................................................                                 18
       3.4.    Records Management: ...........................................................................................              18
       4.1.    Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................         18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              20

Attachment 2—ESOHCAMP TIER CHART                                                                                                            26

Attachment 3—ESOHCAMP REPORT FORMAT                                                                                                         28
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                         3



                                           Chapter 1

                            HOW TO USE THIS INSTRUCTION

1.1. Background: The Air Force ESOH programs exist to support the war fighter and protect
the environment, workforce, and community. The Air Force developed the Environment, Safety,
and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ESOHCAMP) to
assess management effectiveness and monitor compliance with federal, state, and local laws or
regulations and conformance with DoD, Air Force or installation instructions, policies, or other
requirements.
1.2. Concept: The ESOHCAMP is designed to help installation commanders assess
performance of their ESOH programs and to identify and track solutions to ESOH compliance
and conformance deficiencies. The intent of the ESOHCAMP external assessment (Tier 3
assessments) is to integrate external ESOH functional assessments so that they are completed
during the same assessment timeframe. This approach facilitates appropriate identification of
cross-cutting issues and ensures cross-functional inputs are incorporated into assessment findings
and recommendations for corrective action. All offices involved in inspection/assessment
checklist development are responsible for ensuring ESOHCAMP and other types of
inspections/assessments (e.g. Unit Compliance Inspections, Health Services Inspections,
MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs Logistics Standardization Evaluation Team inspections, etc.) are
deconflicted and do not duplicate efforts.
   1.2.1. Three Tiered Approach: The ESOHCAMP shall be 3-tiered. Tier 1 assessments are
   routine facility and workplace process reviews intended to ensure compliance and/or
   conformance with federal, state, local, DoD, and Air Force instructions, policies, or
   requirements. Tier 1 shall include recurring workplace-level assessment necessary for
   maintaining ESOH compliance of daily operations. Tier 2 assessments shall consist of an
   annual internal evaluation of all applicable ESOH requirements and compliance with
   instructions, policies, or requirements. Tier 3 external assessments shall focus primarily on
   assessing the adequacy and performance of ESOH management and shall include a
   tailored/scoped regulatory compliance evaluation. Chapter 2 provides detailed procedures
   for each level of assessment.         Attachment 3 summarizes the responsible offices,
   requirements, frequency, and rationale for each respective tier.
   1.2.2. Primary Objectives: The primary objectives of ESOHCAMP assessments are to:
       1.2.2.1. Verify that ESOH management is performed in a manner that protects human
       health and the environment, and ensures compliance with all applicable laws, regulations,
       and internal policies.
       1.2.2.2. Ensure ESOH performance is effective to sustain and enhance mission
       capability.
       1.2.2.3. Evaluate conformance with management system standards the Air Force has
       adopted for various ESOH areas (e.g., ISO 14001 and others). Although Environmental
       Management System (EMS) programs must conform to ISO 14001 standards and possess
       all elements required under the standard, AF installations are NOT required to obtain ISO
       14001 certification.
4                                                                 AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


1.3. Findings: For all Tier 3 assessments, ESOHCAMP findings shall be categorized as one of
the following: significant finding, compliance finding, a major or minor management system
finding, or a best practice finding. Findings shall be designated as new, repeat, or carry-over.
    1.3.1. Significant Finding—Any noncompliance with federal, state, or local laws,
    regulations, permits, or ordinances that poses a direct and immediate threat to human health
    or safety, mission, and/or the environment. For overseas areas, any noncompliance with
    country-specific Final Governing Standards (FGS), the Overseas Environmental Baseline
    Guidance Document (OEBGD), or other applicable compliance requirement that poses a
    direct and immediate threat to human health or safety, mission, and/or the environment..
    1.3.2. Compliance Finding—Any noncompliance with federal, state, or local laws,
    regulations, permits, or ordinances that is not a significant finding. For overseas areas, any
    noncompliance with country-specific Final Governing Standards (FGS), the Overseas
    Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD), or other applicable compliance
    requirement that is not a significant finding.
    1.3.3. Major Management System Finding—Multiple instances of nonconformance to a
    DoD, Air Force, or installation instruction, policy, or other requirement. For environmental
    programs, this also includes failure to meet one of the required elements of ISO 14001:
    Environmental Management Systems.
    1.3.4. Minor Management System Finding—A single instance where an installation has
    failed to conform with a DoD, Air Force, or installation instruction, policy, or other
    requirement.
    1.3.5. Potential Best Practice—A finding that is considered a standard of excellence or
    achievement considered best in class.
    1.3.6. New, Repeat, or Carry-Over Finding Designations—These designations shall be
    applied to each finding to assist in identification of negative trends, failure to properly
    identify root causes, and appropriately implement corrective actions. A new finding is one
    that was identified for the first time during the current ESOHCAMP. A repeat finding is one
    that was identified and documented during a previous ESOHCAMP that has been closed, but
    the same condition has reoccurred. A carry-over finding is one that was observed and
    documented in a previous ESOHCAMP and has remained open.
1.4. Responsibilities:
    1.4.1. The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and
    Logistics (SAF/IE) shall:
       1.4.1.1. Provide guidance, direction, and oversight of matters pertaining to the
       formulation, review, and execution of the ESOHCAMP.
       1.4.1.2. Establish a process to make necessary changes to ESOHCAMP policy for
       SECAF approval; approve ESOHCAMP implementation guidance; and monitor and
       report Air Force-wide ESOHCAMP performance measures, trends, and issues to the
       HAF ESOH Council (ESOHC).
       1.4.1.3. Develop, approve, and monitor, at least semi-annually, ESOHCAMP
       performance measures through the HAF ESOHC.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                              5


  1.4.2. The Office of The Civil Engineer (AF/A7C) shall:
     1.4.2.1. Serve as the environmental functional lead for the responsibilities under this
     Instruction.
     1.4.2.2. Monitor and report semi-annually on ESOHCAMP performance measures as
     defined by HAF ESOH Council.
     1.4.2.3. Monitor and approve the environmental portion of workplace-level self-
     inspection checklist templates.
     1.4.2.4. While complying with DoD external compliance assessment requirements,
     recommend scope and frequency of Tier 3 assessments to MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs based
     on Air Force-wide environmental performance and findings of previous assessments.
     1.4.2.5. Plan, program, and budget for AF/A7C portion of ESOHCAMP.
  1.4.3. The Office of the Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) shall:
     1.4.3.1. Serve as the safety functional lead for the responsibilities under this Instruction.
     1.4.3.2. Establish, maintain, and update safety assessment protocols and checklists.
     1.4.3.3. Monitor and report semi-annually on ESOHCAMP performance measures as
     defined by HAF ESOH Council.
     1.4.3.4. Compile Air Force-wide safety assessment results and evaluate trends to assess
     compliance and effectiveness of the management system and identify policy needs,
     funding, and support requirements.
     1.4.3.5. Assist in the development and update of safety portion of workplace-level self-
     inspection checklists templates.
     1.4.3.6. Assist MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs in identifying and implementing safety corrective
     and preventive actions when appropriate.
     1.4.3.7. Disseminate SE potential best practices throughout the Air Force when notified
     by MAJCOM/ANG/DRU functionals.
     1.4.3.8. Recommend scope and frequency of Tier 3 assessments                                to
     MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs based on safety performance and findings of previous audits.
     1.4.3.9. Plan, program, and budget for AF/SE portion of ESOHCAMPs.
     1.4.3.10. Assist MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs with conducting Tier 3 assessments when
     requested and when available.
  1.4.4. The Office of the Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) shall:
     1.4.4.1. Serve as the occupational health functional lead for the responsibilities under
     this Instruction.
     1.4.4.2. Establish, maintain, and update occupational health assessment protocols and
     checklists. Coordinate with AF/A7C and Air Force Center for Engineering and the
     Environment (AFCEE) on environmental assessment protocols that address Air Force
     Medical Service (AFMS) issues (i.e., potable water monitoring).
6                                                                AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


       1.4.4.3. Monitor and report semi-annually on ESOHCAMP performance measures as
       defined by HAF ESOH Council.
       1.4.4.4. Compile Air Force-wide ESOHCAMP occupational health results and evaluate
       trends to assess compliance and effectiveness of the management system and identify
       policy needs, funding, and support requirements.
       1.4.4.5. Assist in the development and update of the occupational health portion of self-
       inspection checklists templates.
       1.4.4.6. Assist installations and MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs in identifying and implementing
       occupational health corrective and preventive actions when appropriate.
       1.4.4.7. Disseminate SG potential best practices throughout the Air Force when notified
       by MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs functionals.
       1.4.4.8. Recommend scope and frequency of Tier 3 assessments to
       MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs based on occupational health performance and findings of
       previous audits.
       1.4.4.9. Plan, program, and budget for AF/SG portion of ESOHCAMP.
       1.4.4.10. Assist MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs with planning Tier 3 assessments when
       requested and available. MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs will resource to conduct Tier 3
       assessments.
    1.4.5. Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE) shall:
       1.4.5.1. Serve as the environmental functional expert for ESOHCAMP implementation
       guidance.
       1.4.5.2. Disseminate environmental potential best practices throughout the Air Force
       when notified by MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs functionals.
       1.4.5.3. Establish, maintain, and update environmental assessment protocols and
       checklists. Coordinate with AF/SG for assessment protocol and checklists regarding
       AFMS issues (e.g. potable water monitoring).
       1.4.5.4. Develop and update the environmental portion of workplace-level self-
       inspection checklist templates.
       1.4.5.5. Forward information on AF-wide recurring technical and operational problems
       to AF/A7C to develop solutions and integrate them into Air Force design and operational
       guidance.
       1.4.5.6. Administer and maintain information technology (IT) tracking capability to
       include standard report formats and trend analysis.
       1.4.5.7. Recommend scope and frequency of Tier 3 assessments to AF/A7C based on Air
       Force-wide environmental performance and findings of previous assessments, while
       complying with DoD external compliance assessment requirements.
       1.4.5.8. Identify and provide, as available, qualified environmental assessors to augment
       Tier 3 assessment teams as requested by MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                        7


     1.4.5.9. Assist installations and MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs, when appropriate, in identifying
     and implementing environmental corrective and preventive actions.
     1.4.5.10. Compile Air Force-wide ESOHCAMP environmental results and evaluate
     trends to assess compliance and effectiveness of the management system and identify
     policy needs, funding, and support requirements.
     1.4.5.11. Provide contracted assessment team personnel for the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs
     to use as requested by each ESOH functional.
     1.4.5.12. Provide the Air Force Regional Environmental Offices (REOs) a listing of
     projected Tier 3 assessments planned for the fiscal year prior to the beginning of the
     fiscal year. Advise the REOs of any changes in the Tier 3 assessment scheduled dates if
     changes occur.
     1.4.5.13. Regional Environmental Offices shall:
        1.4.5.13.1. Serve as the regional point of contact for liaison activities with state and
        federal agencies.
        1.4.5.13.2. Develop comprehensive Enforcement Vulnerability Analysis (EVA),
        relative to environmental issues only. Provide EVA to MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs
        ESOHCAMP Team Chief to be included in the assessors’ ESOHCAMP preparation
        package. The EVA will be provided a minimum of one month prior to the scheduled
        Tier 3 assessment.
  1.4.6. Air Force Environmental Law Field Support Center (ELFSC) shall:
     1.4.6.1. Advise AFCEE on ESOHCAMP environmental protocols that require revision.
     1.4.6.2. Advise installations, upon request, before Tier 2 assessments concerning
     protocols that require the most attention to maximize compliance and minimize the
     potential for enforcement action or litigation against the Air Force.
     1.4.6.3. Provide legal support to Tier 2 and Tier 3 assessment teams, as requested, to
     include support on Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and requests for Tier 2 or Tier 3
     assessment data.
  1.4.7. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT): Conduct lead-auditor training for
  ESOHCAMP assessors based on the ISO 19011 standard for management systems auditors.
  1.4.8. MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs:
     1.4.8.1. MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH Council Chair shall:
        1.4.8.1.1. Ensure Tier 3 assessments are performed at all appropriate installations.
        1.4.8.1.2. Ensure adequate resources are available for performance of Tier 3
        assessments.
        1.4.8.1.3. Ensure MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs functional offices appropriately scope Tier
        3 assessments. Approve a Tier 3 assessment plan (e.g., frequency, duration,
        workplaces, and protocols assessed, reporting procedures, etc.).
        1.4.8.1.4. Appoint a Team Chief for Tier 3 assessment teams or delegate this duty to
        the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH functionals. The Team Chief shall be responsible
8                                                                  AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


           for identifying team members, preparing and giving required briefings, logistics,
           scheduling, and overseeing report development.
           1.4.8.1.5. Establish a MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs Tier 3 assessment schedule for the
           fiscal year no later than 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year.
           1.4.8.1.6. Collect and monitor ESOHCAMP performance measures as defined by the
           HAF ESOH Council.
       1.4.8.2. MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs Functionals shall:
           1.4.8.2.1. Assist HAF in the development and update of self-inspection checklists
           and templates. Identify, as appropriate, any MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs-specific special
           interest items to include in Tier 2 and 3 assessments.
           1.4.8.2.2. Provide consultation to assist installations with their Tier 2 assessments or
           other review activities, as appropriate.
           1.4.8.2.3. Scope Tier 3 assessments appropriately. Develop a Tier 3 assessment plan
           (e.g., frequency, duration, workplaces and protocols assessed, reporting procedures,
           etc.) and collaborate/develop pre-visit questionnaires.
           1.4.8.2.4. Assist installations with root cause analysis and corrective and preventive
           actions.
           1.4.8.2.5. Approve Tier 3 assessment management action plans (MAPs) provided by
           the installation to correct ESOHCAMP findings.
           1.4.8.2.6. Report to the applicable HAF ESOH functional office ESOHCAMP
           performance measures, trends, issues, and potential best practices observed at
           installations.
           1.4.8.2.7. Establish and provide members for assessment teams. Ensure necessary
           logistical support (e.g., cameras, computers, etc.) is provided for the assessment.
           1.4.8.2.8. The MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs Environmental functional shall provide a
           listing of the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs Tier 3 assessments planned for the next fiscal
           year to AFCEE/TDNC and the AFCEE REOs 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal
           year.
           1.4.8.2.9. Report any changes in the scheduled dates of Tier 3 assessments to
           AFCEE/TDNC and the appropriate AFCEE REO as soon they are determined.
    1.4.9. Installation-Level ESOH Council Chair shall:
       1.4.9.1. Oversee execution of the installation ESOHCAMP. Ensure Tier 1 and 2
       assessments are conducted at all applicable units, geographically separated units (GSUs),
       and tenant organizations.
       1.4.9.2. Ensure installation functional offices appropriately scope and plan Tier 2
       assessments.
       1.4.9.3. Designate a Team Chief for Tier 2 assessments.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                       9


     1.4.9.4. Installation ESOHCs shall review installation trends and track progress to
     correct validated deficiencies for Tier 2 and Tier 3 assessments,. The installation
     ESOHC shall help advocate for resources necessary to close findings.
     1.4.9.5. Endorse Tier 3 assessment MAPs to be sent to the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs
     ESOH functionals for approval.
     1.4.9.6. Collect and monitor ESOHCAMP performance measures as defined by the
     MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH Council.
  1.4.10. Installation-Level ESOH Functional Offices shall:
     1.4.10.1. Functional offices will help each workplace select the appropriate AF
     standardized compliance checklists to be used during Tier 1 assessments.
     1.4.10.2. Provide subject matter expertise to workplace supervisors to support Tier 1
     assessments, as requested.
     1.4.10.3. Scope Tier 2 assessments appropriately. Develop a Tier 2 assessment plan
     (e.g., frequency, duration, workplaces and protocols assessed, reporting procedures, etc.).
     1.4.10.4. Perform Tier 2 assessments. As part of the Tier 2 assessment, functionals shall
     confirm Tier 1 assessments are being appropriately performed and shall review Tier 1
     corrective/preventive actions to verify they are appropriate to mitigate ESOH risks and
     ensure compliance.
     1.4.10.5. Track and report Tier 2 assessment trends to the Installation ESOHC.
     1.4.10.6. Report Tier 2 assessment results and installation trends to the
     MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH functional, as requested. Enter functional Tier 2
     assessment results into the appropriate approved information technology system.
     1.4.10.7. Work with Tier 3 assessment team to provide all necessary logistical support as
     required. Provide required logistics such as schedules, documentation for team review,
     and assistance with setting up meetings, billeting arrangements, and workspace.
     1.4.10.8. Consolidate, review, and validate Tier 3 assessment MAPs for the respective
     functional area. Provide consolidated MAPs to the installation ESOHC and send to the
     MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH functionals for approval.
     1.4.10.9. Track and report to the installation ESOHC Tier 2 and Tier 3 installation-wide
     functional findings and progress to correct validated systemic deficiencies.
     1.4.10.10. Validate, upon notification by a unit commander that a finding has been
     closed, that appropriate action has been taken to mitigate ESOH risks and ensure
     compliance.
  1.4.11. Unit CCs/Supervisors (or designated representatives) shall:
     1.4.11.1. Perform and document Tier 1 assessments. The supervisor of the process is the
     responsible party for Tier 1 assessments. The supervisor may appoint a qualified
     individual to conduct Tier 1 assessments and is responsible for ensuring that the
     individual is trained and task-certified to conduct the assessment.
10                                                            AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


     1.4.11.2. Perform initial root cause analysis and develop a MAP to implement corrective
     and preventive actions for Tier 1 assessments. Unit supervisors should discuss
     noncompliance and/or non-conformance issues with appropriate functional expert to
     ensure the appropriate root cause is determined and corrective action is implemented.
     1.4.11.3. Implement corrective and preventive actions and track continued compliance.
     Program for resources required to implement actions as necessary.
     1.4.11.4. Ensure workplace supervisors follow installation Document Control and
     management record control procedures with relation to maintaining the Tier 1 assessment
     checklist.
     1.4.11.5. Perform a root cause analysis and develop a MAP to correct the immediate
     finding/root cause and prevent recurrence for Tier 2 and Tier 3 assessments. Submit Tier
     2 and Tier 3 MAPs to the applicable installation-level ESOH functional office(s) for
     approval.
     1.4.11.6. Unit Commanders are responsible for tracking and closing Tier 2 and Tier 3
     assessment findings. Unit Commanders will provide progress updates and notification of
     closure to the applicable installation-level ESOH functional office.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                        11


                                           Chapter 2

                                ESOHCAMP PROCEDURES

2.1. Tier 1, Routine Self-Assessments:
   2.1.1. Frequency: Assessment frequency for the respective systems shall be at least
   quarterly by shop personnel or ESOH functionals, unless a specific functional or regulatory
   requirement or the wing/unit commander requires a more frequent assessment. Routine
   annual visits by ESOH functional experts and annual Tier 2 assessments may be used as a
   Tier 1 quarterly assessment.
   2.1.2. Scope: Tier 1 assessments shall be conducted for all workplaces with identified
   ESOH requirements.
   2.1.3. Assessor Qualifications: Tier 1 assessors must be qualified to evaluate the processes
   or facilities being evaluated. Assessors should possess a good working knowledge of the
   operations being assessed and controlling statutes and directives. The activity supervisor or a
   qualified individual assigned by the supervisor shall conduct the qualification training.
   Appropriate training must be documented (e.g., AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
   Record, AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, or other approved record keeping
   system) by Tier 1 assessor's supervisor.
   2.1.4. Assessment Procedures: Tier 1 assessments are routine facility and workplace
   process reviews intended to ensure compliance with federal, state, and local laws or
   regulations and conformance with DoD, Air Force or installation instructions, policies, or
   other requirements. For overseas areas, "DoD requirements" include applicable requirements
   of international agreements and country-specific FGS. Where no country-specific FGS
   exists, DoD requirements include applicable requirements of international agreements and
   the OEBGD. Assessment documentation serves as a record of compliance/noncompliance
   and can be used to identify areas for corrective action, lessons learned, or best practices.
   2.1.5. Corrective and Preventive Actions: Documentation of instances of noncompliance
   and/or nonconformance found during Tier 1 assessments must identify corrective and
   preventive actions, even when the problem is immediately eliminated. Elimination of the
   immediate problem may not necessarily address the underlying root cause, which may only
   be properly addressed through corrective action. Significant findings must be immediately
   reported to the Unit Commander and to the appropriate installation-level functional office.
   For more complex issues (i.e., problems that cannot be immediately corrected), workplace
   personnel should contact the installation ESOH functional for assistance in identifying the
   root cause and appropriate corrective/preventive actions to ensure future compliance.
2.2. Tier 2, Installation-level Assessments:
   2.2.1. Frequency: Installations shall conduct Tier 2 assessments annually. The installation
   ESOHC may opt to conduct one yearly assessment that considers all assessment protocols
   and organizations or may conduct a staggered series of assessments that focus only on
   specific protocols and/or organizations. Such an approach must ensure that all appropriate
   assessment protocols and organizations, including GSUs and tenant organizations, are
   assessed in the course of the year.
12                                                                  AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


     2.2.2. Scope: The Installation ESOH Council Chair shall ensure installation functional
     offices scope Tier 2 assessments in accordance with relevant local, state, and federal ESOH
     laws, management system requirements, and any additional obligations set forth in a lease or
     other agreement. Tier 2 assessments shall evaluate the performance of all applicable ESOH
     requirements and compliance with federal, state, and local laws or regulations and
     conformance with DoD, Air Force or installation instructions, policies, or other requirements.
     For overseas areas, "DoD requirements" include applicable requirements of international
     agreements and country-specific FGS. Where no country-specific FGS exists, DoD
     requirements include applicable requirements of international agreements and the OEBGD.
     At joint bases or BRAC aligned installations, supported wings, in conjunction with
     MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs, will determine the scope of Tier 2 assessments. Installations may
     integrate assessments conducted in accordance with other applicable AFIs into their Tier 2
     program to eliminate duplication of work (e.g., annual functional assessments may fulfill the
     requirement for the Tier 2 assessment provided all ESOHCAMP requirements such as record
     keeping and finding close-out are met).
     2.2.3. Assessor Qualifications: The Tier 2 Chief is responsible for ensuring that assessors
     have the proper and relevant skills to carry out their assigned tasks. Assessors should possess
     a good working knowledge of the operations being assessed and controlling statutes and
     regulations. Collectively, the assessors must have the knowledge and background required to
     efficiently and effectively conduct all aspects of an installation assessment including
     knowledge of the specific system being assessed (E, S, or OH) and of the standard that was
     used as the model for that system. Tier 2 assessments are intended as installation-level self-
     assessments that shall normally rely on available installation ESOH expertise, but may be
     augmented by external sources, if necessary. Specific functional qualifications may be
     required by AFI, policy or law. While not required, AFIT assessor or management system
     auditing classes are beneficial. Appropriate training must be documented (e.g., AF Form 55,
     AF Form 623, or other approved record keeping system).
     2.2.4. Assessment Procedures:
        2.2.4.1. Pre-Assessment Actions: Each installation ESOH functional shall
        appropriately scope their respective Tier 2 assessments and develop a Tier 2 assessment
        plan (e.g., frequency, duration, workplaces and protocols assessed, reporting procedures,
        etc.).
        2.2.4.2. Site Assessment: During the Tier 2 assessment, assessors shall conduct record
        reviews, interviews, reviews of Tier 1 assessment reports, facility inspections, and site
        surveys to assess conformance with management system standards and compliance with
        federal, state, local, DoD, and Air Force requirements. For overseas installations, 'DoD
        requirements' must coincide with international agreements, country-specific FGS, and the
        OEBGD.
            2.2.4.2.1. The Tier 2 Chief shall ensure that visits to offices and organizations
            operated or managed by government contractors are coordinated in advance with the
            appropriate contracting representative. The contracting representative shall help
            arrange the visit and advise the Tier 2 Chief of any applicable contract restrictions.
            2.2.4.2.2. The Tier 2 Chief shall ensure that visits to privatized activities are
            coordinated through the Installation Asset Manager.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                        13


          2.2.4.2.3. ESOH functional assessors shall document findings in a manner that fully
          describe the observed conditions and applicable requirement(s). The assessment
          report shall contain a reference, a preliminary root cause analysis and recommended
          corrective and preventive actions. The appropriate ESOH functional offices shall
          provide a Tier 2 assessment report to the unit commander and the work centers
          assessed.
          2.2.4.2.4. Findings must be documented and reported to the unit commander and
          installation ESOHC, and tracked appropriately at the installation. The assessed
          activity may choose to address the deficiency and to also implement corrective and
          preventive actions during the assessment period. Even if immediately corrected, a
          finding shall still be documented as this establishes historical trends and may be
          helpful in future assessments and root cause analyses.
          2.2.4.2.5. The Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for any finding must be an
          office or organization that is managed by military or government civilian (GS or
          NSPS) personnel. Offices and organizations operated or managed solely by
          government contractors shall not be identified as an OPR for any finding.
          2.2.4.2.6. ESOH functional offices shall cross-feed significant findings/observations,
          trends, systemic issues and/or common root causes with the other members of the
          assessment team to ensure cross-functional inputs are incorporated into assessment
          findings and recommendations for corrective action.
          2.2.4.2.7. Copies of the Tier 2 assessment findings shall be provided to the
          MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs, which will use the information in scoping Tier 3
          assessments.
   2.2.5. Post Assessment Actions:
      2.2.5.1. Management Action Plans: Within 45 calendar days of the assessment out
      brief, organizations responsible for correcting the findings shall develop a root cause
      analysis and MAP to correct the immediate finding/root cause and prevent recurrence.
      Eliminating the ESOH hazard, noncompliance or nonconformance should always be the
      preferred method of closing findings. The installation-level ESOH functional office is
      the approval authority for all MAPs.
      2.2.5.2. Tracking: Installation ESOHCs shall review installation trends and track the
      progress of the implementation of corrective/preventive actions. The installation ESOHC
      shall advocate for resources and help create justification for funding requirements to
      close findings.
      2.2.5.3. Reporting: Installation ESOH functionals shall report systemic problems
      beyond the control of the installation, and potential best practice for cross-sharing to the
      MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs and other pertinent organizations. If requested, they will help
      organizations advocate for resources necessary to close findings.
2.3. Tier 3 External Assessments:
   2.3.1. Applicability: Tier 3 assessments shall be conducted at installations meeting the
   criteria below. The performance of Tier 3 assessments at any installation not meeting these
   criteria requires prior approval by the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH Council Chair.
14                                                                     AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


        2.3.1.1. Is a major installation as defined in Attachment 1.
        2.3.1.2. Is identified by AF/A7C as an appropriate facility under DoDI 4715.17,
        Environmental Management Systems.
        2.3.1.3. Performs industrial processes associated with a flying mission (to include
        Combat Readiness Training Centers).
        2.3.1.4. Has a centralized intermediate repair facility or other depot-like activity.
        2.3.1.5. Has a RED HORSE squadron with heavy machinery and equipment.
        2.3.1.6. Is predominantly industrial in nature or has sufficient environmental impact to
        justify a Tier 3 assessment as determined by the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs.
     2.3.2. Frequency: Tier 3 assessments shall be conducted at least every three years, but may
     be conducted more frequently if deemed necessary by the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs. Tier 3
     assessments may be conducted wholly or in part with no advance notice to the organization
     being assessed.
     2.3.3. Scope:
        2.3.3.1. MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs will scope the level and degree of the assessment for
        compliance with federal, state, and local laws or regulations and conformance with DoD,
        Air Force or installation instructions, policies, or other requirements. At joint bases or
        BRAC       aligned     installations,   supported      wings,    in   conjunction     with
        MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs, will determine the scope of Tier 3 assessments. For applicable
        OCONUS installations, 'DoD requirements' include applicable requirements of
        international agreements, country-specific FGS and OEBGD.
        2.3.3.2. In scoping Tier 3 assessments, MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs shall consider an
        installation’s recent inspections and auditing history, compliance history, significant
        aspects, EVAs, and Tier 2 assessment status.
        2.3.3.3. The MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs shall also consider assessing all properties,
        activities, functions, and processes under the control of an Air Force installation, to
        include GOCO facilities, and tenant organizations (consistent with the controlling lease
        or host-tenant agreement). The scope of the assessment shall be determined by reviewing
        and evaluating relevant local, state, and federal environmental laws, DoD and AF
        requirements, and any additional obligations set forth in a lease or other agreement.
     2.3.4. Assessor Qualifications: The Tier 3 Team Chief is responsible for ensuring that team
     members have the proper and relevant skills to carry out their assigned tasks. Assessors
     should possess a good working knowledge of the controlling statutes and regulations and
     country-specific FGS and OEBGD, as well as a good working knowledge of the operations
     being assessed. Collectively, the assessment team must have the knowledge and background
     required to efficiently and effectively conduct all aspects of an installation assessment.
     Specific functional qualifications may be required by Air Force instruction, policy, or law.
     Environmental management systems assessors must have ISO 14001 lead-auditor or
     equivalent AFIT course training. Appropriate training must be documented (e.g., AF Form
     55, AF Form 623, or other approved record keeping system).
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                      15


  2.3.5. Assessment Procedure: The assessment shall follow generally accepted practices for
  management system conformance and regulatory compliance assessments. The following
  elements are considered critical to the Tier 3 assessment: 1) an assessment plan that reflects
  the scope and schedule of the assessment; 2) a review of background documents prior to the
  actual site visit, including review of the ESOH documents and other relevant planning
  documents such as the list of significant aspects, objectives and targets and management
  plans, policies, permits, and procedures; 3) an assessment of the facility or organization to
  determine conformance with ISO 14001, consistency between the elements of the
  management system as they are implemented within the facility or organization and continual
  performance improvement; 4) an assessment of compliance status, Tier 1 and 2 assessment
  results, regulator concerns, and higher headquarters special interest items (SIIs); 5)
  preparation of an assessment report that outlines findings from the assessment; and 6) an out-
  briefing with the installation commander, ESOHC chair and/or other senior leaders as
  appropriate to convey assessment findings and recommendations.
     2.3.5.1. Assessment Team: MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOHCs shall establish the
     assessment team size and composition to support the planned scope. Teams for Tier 3
     assessments shall be led by the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs that owns the installation being
     evaluated and may be composed of Air Force, other DoD, and contractor personnel. All
     Tier 3 assessment teams must have an Air Force member as Team Chief.
     2.3.5.2. Pre-Assessment Actions:
         2.3.5.2.1. Installation: The installation shall provide MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs
         ESOHC-requested information to the assessment team to familiarize the team
         members with the composition and operations of the installation. At a minimum, this
         will include management system documents, significant aspects, industrial workplace
         listings, permits, leases, and inter-service support agreements. Assessors may request
         additional information be provided prior to the assessment.
         2.3.5.2.2. Assessors: Prior to the site visit, assessors shall review copies of Tier 2
         reports created since the last Tier 3 assessment and all management system
         documents provided by the installation pertinent to their assigned assessment
         protocols. The Team Chief shall review leases, inter-service support agreements, and
         host-tenant support agreements to see what the obligation of the tenant unit is to
         follow the installation's ESOH requirements and to see what authority the Air Force
         has to assess the tenant's compliance/conformity. Assessors shall also review
         relevant federal, state, local, DoD, and Air Force requirements. For overseas
         installations, assessors shall also review relevant FGS or, where no FGS exist, the
         OEBGD. Environmental assessors shall review the EVAs and other pertinent
         documents prior to the assessment.
     2.3.5.3. Assessment: The assessment Team Chief shall provide an in-brief to the
     installation commander and/or his or her designated representatives. During the site
     assessment, the assessment team conducts record searches, interviews, and site surveys to
     determine conformance with management system requirements. The team also assesses
     compliance requirements as necessary based on the results of previous Tier 1 and Tier 2
     assessments. During the assessment, the Team Chief provides feedback to the
     installation commander as needed. The team shall assemble a preliminary assessment
16                                                             AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


     report. The Team Chief shall provide an overall summary of the assessment results (out-
     brief) to the installation commander, installation ESOHC chair and/or other senior leaders
     as applicable.
        2.3.5.3.1. If necessary, the Tier 3 Team Chief, working through the installation
        functional POCs, will ensure advance coordination is made with the appropriate
        contracting representative for visits to offices and organizations operated or managed
        by government contractors. The contracting representative shall help arrange the visit
        and advise the Team Chief of any applicable contract restrictions.
        2.3.5.3.2. Significant findings shall be immediately communicated to the installation
        commander. The finding, root cause, and a preliminary corrective action that
        removes the immediate threat shall be included in the preliminary assessment report
        and out-brief.
        2.3.5.3.3. All findings shall be documented and provided to the appropriate
        commander. The installation may choose to implement corrective actions during the
        assessment period. However, corrected findings shall still be documented in the final
        report as they may indicate an underlying systemic management issue.
        2.3.5.3.4. Assessors shall fully document findings in a manner that fully describes the
        observed conditions and applicable requirement(s). Specifics shall include the
        location, responsible organization(s), and existing and planned projects or work
        orders. Assessors will cite all applicable requirements, guidance, and/or directives.
        Assessors shall provide preliminary root cause analysis and recommendations for
        applying corrective and preventive actions based on available information. Suggested
        corrective and preventive actions (if provided) should resolve the root cause and
        address underlying system problem(s) and outline the requirements for preventing
        recurrences of similar findings in the future.
        2.3.5.3.5. Assessors and the Tier 3 Team Chief shall cross-feed findings within the
        team in order to identify any systemic issues or common root causes. The team shall
        identify these issues to appropriate installation personnel, as identified by the
        installation ESOHC, and provide as much assistance as possible in identifying
        potential corrective and preventive actions.
        2.3.5.3.6. As part of the Tier 3 assessment, MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs shall consider
        recognizing superior performers for their work minimizing ESOH risks while
        optimizing mission effectiveness.
     2.3.5.4. Management Action Plans: The commander of the organization assessed is
     responsible for the closure of all findings.
        2.3.5.4.1. Installation OPRs for findings shall work with their installation ESOH
        functional offices to develop robust MAPs. The MAPs for each finding must identify
        the root cause of the findings, the corrective actions required to completely address
        the finding and prevent future recurrences, required resources and related
        programming/project numbers, and an estimated completion date. Installations with
        major management system findings do not have a fully conforming EMS in-place, so
        the MAP shall address the proposed actions to achieve a fully conforming
        management system.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                  17


        2.3.5.4.2. It is the responsibility of the installation ESOHC Chair to endorse the
        MAP. The installation ESOHC shall review a summary of all findings to understand
        any systemic issues or common root causes. The installation ESOHC shall forward to
        the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs functionals any recommended changes to policy or
        guidance to address common root causes.
        2.3.5.4.3. The endorsed MAP shall be provided to the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH
        functional within 60 calendar days following the out-brief. Future tracking and
        reporting of MAP status shall be accomplished by the installations functionals, who
        keep the installation ESOHC informed and verified by the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs
        ESOH functionals. Installation must update MAP status at least quarterly.
        2.3.5.4.4. MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOH functionals and/or appropriate designees
        shall review and approve or provide installation with comments for appropriate
        corrective action within 30 calendar days. MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs may consider
        integrating the auditor who conducted the ESOHCAMP into the review process to
        ensure the MAP and any MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs comments appropriately address the
        findings.
        2.3.5.4.5. Final Report: The Tier 3 Team Chief shall ensure that the final report is
        published in accordance with Attachment 3 within 120 calendar days of the
        assessment out-brief.
18                                                                AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


                                           Chapter 3

                      ESOHCAMP DATA MANAGEMENT PROCESS

3.1. Tier 2 and Tier 3 ESOH Data Management: Tier 2 and Tier 3 data shall be managed in
approved systems selected by the respective functional units. Assessment data shall be uploaded
by the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs environmental functional office to the ESOHCAMP IT tool when
their review process is complete. The MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs environmental functional office
shall inform AFCEE within 30 calendar days of completing this action.
3.2. Information Reporting Requirements: The Air Force has designated ESOHCAMP
MAPs as emergency status code D, discontinue reporting during emergency conditions.
3.3. Release of ESOHCAMP Documents and Data: Every ESOHCAMP assessment can
generate a large volume of documents and data. These materials must be managed and protected
in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies, to include classification and
marking (AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management), FOIA (Title 5, United States
Code, §552; DoDD 5400.07, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program; DoD 5400.7-
R, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program; DoDR 5400.7/Air Force Supplement, DoD
Freedom of Information Act Program); AFI 33-322, Records Management Program; and AFI
33-364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities.
     3.3.1. Installations, MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs, AFCEE, AF/A7C, AF/SG, and AF/SE must
     consult their supporting legal offices when processing each request to release data,
     documents, or other material associated with an ESOHCAMP to officials, organizations,
     and/or entities outside the DoD.
     3.3.2. Installation and MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs ESOHCAMP managers must also consult
     their supporting legal offices and receive Wing Leadership approval before allowing any
     local, state, federal, or host-nation regulators to observe or participate in any part of an
     ESOHCAMP.
     3.3.3. Installation and MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs legal offices should coordinate their legal
     opinions with Air Force ELFSC prior to releasing ESOH data.
3.4. Records Management: Mark checklists, e-mail transmissions, assessment reports, and
other documents related to the ESOHCAMP in accordance with DoD 5200.1-R/Air Force
Supplement, Information Security Program, and DoDR 5400.7/Air Force Supplement. Maintain
and manage records in accordance with AFI 33-322, Records Management Program; AFI 33-
364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities; AFI 31-401, Information Security
Program Management and AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records. Dispose of records in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule.

4.1. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                  19




                          DEBRA K. TUNE, SES
                          Deputy Assistant Secretary (Logistics)
                          Performing the Duties of Assistant Secretary

                          (Installations, Environment and Logistics)
20                                                             AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 Jul 94
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 Oct 05
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health, 1 Sep 04
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 Sep 93
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 05
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 Oct 03
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 06
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, 5 Mar 08
AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Councils, 25 Mar 05
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 Aug 98
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sept 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 08. Note: Air Force Records Information
Management System Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm, 01 Mar 08
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 Jan 97
DoD 5400.7-R/Air Force Supplement, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 4 Sep 98
DoDD 4715.1E, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH), 19 Mar 05
DoDD 5400.07, DoD Freedom of Information (FOIA) Program, 2 Jan 08
DoDI 6055.05 Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH), 11 Nov 08
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug 98
DoDI 4715.3, Environmental Conservation Program, 3 May 96
DoDI 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, 22 Apr 96
DoDI 4715.6, Environmental Compliance, 24 Apr 96
DoDI 4715.17, Environmental Management Systems, 15 Apr 09
DoDR 5400.7/AF Sup, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 Jun 02
Joint Pub 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 12 Apr 01
ISO 14001, Environmental Management Systems
ISO 19011, Guidelines for Quality and/or Environmental Management Systems Auditing
E.O. 12196, Occupational Safety and Health Program for Federal Employees, February 26,
1980
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                   21


E.O. 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management,
January 24, 2007
5 U.S.C. § 552, Freedom of Information Act

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCEE—Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AF Sup—Air Force Supplement
ANG—Air National Guard
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDR—Department of Defense Regulation
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ELFSC—Air Force Environmental Law Field Support Center
EMS—Environmental Management System
EO—Executive Order
ESOH—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
EVA—Enforcement Vulnerability Analysis
FGS—Final Governing Standards
GOCO—Government-owned contractor-operated
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
ISO—International Organization for Standardization
MAJCOM—United States Air Force Major Command
MAP—Management Action Plan
MS—Management System
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
22                                                                AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


REO—Air Force Regional Environmental Office
TEAM Guide—The Environmental Assessment and Management Guide
U.S.C.—United States Code
§—Section

Terms
Appropriate Facility—Any facility subject to compliance with environmental regulation or
conducts activities that can have an impact on the environment, either directly or indirectly,
individually or cumulatively, due to the operations of that facility’s or organization’s mission,
processes, or functions.
Assessment Protocols—The specific ESOH major topics areas for which ESOHCAMP
checklists exist.
Best Practices—A standard of excellence or achievement considered best-in-class. It serves as a
reference point for setting internal targets or goals and improving processes.
Carryover Finding—A finding that was documented in a previous ESOHCAMP and that
remains open.
Compliance—The act of abiding by applicable laws, regulations, ordinances, permits, and other
requirements.
Compliance Finding—Any violation of federal, state, or local law, FGS or OEBGD that is not a
significant finding.
Conformance—The state of being fully aligned with appropriate standards, requirements, and
polices (e.g., ISO 14001).
Direct Reporting Unit—an agency of the United States Air Force that is outside the bounds of
the standard organizational hierarchy by being exclusively and uniquely under the control of Air
Force headquarters alone, rather than reporting through a Major Command.
Emergency Status Code—These codes serve as a guide for reporting under emergency and
crisis conditions. Status Code “D” indicates: Immediately discontinue reporting data
requirements during emergency conditions. See AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and
Reports Management Program: Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force
Information Collections, 1 Jun 2000.
Enforcement Vulnerability Analyses—A document prepared by AFCEE Regional
Environmental Offices (REOs) which identifies regulatory concerns, upcoming regulatory
changes, and other pertinent environmental information. Assists MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs in
identifying issues and areas that should be emphasized during the Tier 3 ESOHCAMP.
Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH)—ESOH includes environmental
programs (pollution prevention, conservation, clean-up, etc.), environmental health, fire
protection, and occupational health disciplines.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program (ESOHCAMP)—An integrated environmental, safety, and health
assessment process designed to help commanders assess their installation’s environmental,
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                         23


safety, and occupational health risk and cost reduction programs and to identify and track
solutions to ESOH problems. Based on the identified problems the organization then builds
supporting financial programs and budgets for resolution of requirements.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC)—The ESOH steering
group that reviews policies and programs, establishes goals, monitors progress, and advises
leadership.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH) Functional—The environmental,
safety, or occupational health (Bioenvironmental Engineering/Public Health) office at
installation, MAJCOM/ANG/DRU, or HAF responsible for their respective ESOH oversight and
program execution.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS)—
Reference definition provided in AFPD 90-8.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH) Programs Self—Assessment—
See Tier 1 Assessment.
External Assessment—See Tier 3 Assessment.
Final Governing Standards—A comprehensive set of country-specific substantive provisions,
typically technical limitations on effluent, discharges, etc., or a specific management practice
(DoDI 4715.5).
Finding Identification Code—A code attached to each finding that captures the basic topic that
the finding addresses. The Finding ID Code is assigned in lieu of standardized finding titles. It
is used in trend analysis.
Functional assessments—Separate assessments coordinated by the respective functional lead.
Functional Lead—Environment, safety, and occupational health offices are the individual
functional units under this AFI. For the responsibilities under this Instruction, AF/A7C serves as
the environmental functional lead; AF/SE serves as the safety functional lead; and AF/SG serves
as the occupational health functional lead.
Geographically Separated Unit—An area for which an installation is responsible that is
separate from the main installation. A GSU may support anything from the parent installation
mission to a completely independent tenant.
Installation—A grouping of facilities, located in the same vicinity, which support particular
functions. Installations may be elements of a base. See also Joint Pub 1-02.
Internal Assessment—See Tier 2 Assessment.
MAJCOM—As used in this document refers to major commands.
Major Installation—A self-supporting center of operations for actions of importance to Air
Force combat, combat support, or training. It is operated by an active, Reserve, or Guard unit of
group size or larger with all land, facilities, and organizational support needed to accomplish the
unit mission. It must have real property accountability through ownership, lease, permit, or other
written agreement for all real estate and facilities. Agreements with foreign governments that
give the Air Force jurisdiction over real property meet this requirement. Shared use agreements
(as opposed to joint use agreements where the Air Force owns the runway) do not meet the
24                                                                AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010


criteria for a major installation. This category includes Air Force installations, Air Base
installations, Air Guard installations, and Air Reserve installations.
Major Management System Finding—Multiple instances of nonconformance to a DoD, Air
Force, or installation instruction, policy, or other requirement. For environmental programs, this
also includes failure to meet one of the required elements of ISO 14001: Environmental
Management Systems.
Management Action Plan (MAP)—The complete description of a deficiency’s OPR,
requirement, location, root cause, corrective action, and estimated completion date.
Minor Management System Finding—Single instance where an installation has failed to
conform with a DoD, Air Force, or installation instruction, policy, or other requirement.
New Finding Designations—Applied to a finding that has never been found before, these
designations shall be applied to assist in identification of negative trends, failure to properly
identify root causes, and appropriately implement corrective actions.
Overseas Area—A geographical area located outside the jurisdictional boundaries of the United
States, its territories, and possessions (i.e., a foreign country or territory)
Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD)—A set of objective
criteria and management practices developed by the Department of Defense, pursuant to DoDI
4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, 22 Apr 96, to
protect human health and the environment. The OEBGD also contains procedures for use by the
Department of Defense to establish the Final Governing Standards for a particular geographical
area or to provide standards for environmental compliance where no Final Governing Standards
have been established.
Qualified Assessors—Individuals that have good working knowledge of operations being
assessed, controlling statues, regulation, and AF policies.
Repeat Finding—A finding identified and documented during a previous Tier 2 or Tier 3
ESOHCAMP that the installation closed and that has recurred nevertheless. Typically, previous
assessments are considered as the recent 3-year assessment cycle; however, repeat findings are
not limited to the previous three years.
Root Cause Analysis—A simple and thorough methodology to identify the true source of a
nonconformance or noncompliance.        The analysis uses a deliberate and standardized
investigation process that leads to development of a corrective and preventive action that
includes countermeasures and checkpoints to ensure the deficiency does not recur anywhere in
the organization.
Scope—The workplaces/areas/locations and topics of discussion as defined by the ESOH
functional upon/in which the ESOHCAMP will act or operate.
Significant Finding—A finding that poses a direct and immediate threat to human health or
safety, mission, and/or the environment.
Team Chief—Government individual on an assessment team (usually the most senior person)
charged with ensuring the assessment meets requirements. Provides interface with assessed
organization senior leaders and resolves any questions arising regarding the conduct or results of
the assessment.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                  25


Tier 1 Assessment—Routine assessment by the Unit CC/Supervisor of workplace processes
using the standard checklist. Tier 1 shall include recurring workplace-level inspections
necessary for maintaining regulatory compliance of daily operations.
Tier 2 Assessment—Consists of an annual internal evaluation of all applicable ESOH
requirements and compliance with regulatory requirements.
Tier 3 Assessment—Triennial external assessments that focus primarily on assessing the
adequacy and performance of ESOH management and shall include a tailored regulatory
compliance evaluation.
United States Territories and Possessions—The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the Panama Canal Zone, Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Trust
Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
                                                        Attachment 2
                                                 ESOHCAMP TIER CHART

 Table A2.1. ESOHCAMP Tier Chart.
TIER ONE          Who’s Responsible:             What’s Required:                  Frequency:                  Why:

WORKPLACE         First Level Workplace          Routine facility and              Assessment frequency        To ensure workplaces are in
LEVEL             Supervisors or designated      workplace process                 for the respective          compliance and/or conformance
ASSESSMENTS       appointees of the processes    assessments for ESOH              systems shall be at least   with federal, state, local, DoD, and
                  being evaluated                compliance and for                quarterly, unless a         AF instructions, policies, or
                                                 conformance to management         specific functional or      requirements.
                                                 system elements at the            regulatory requirement
                                                 workplace (e.g., operational      requires a more frequent
                                                 controls applied to an            assessment.
                                                 activity).
TIER TWO          Who’s Responsible:             What’s Required:                  Frequency:                  Why:

INTERNAL          Installation ESOH Functional   An annual internal evaluation     Installations shall         To ensure compliance and/or
EVALUATION        Offices and Installation       of all applicable ESOH            conduct Tier 2              conformance with federal, state,
                  ESOHC                          instruction, policies, or         assessments annually.       local, DoD, and AF instructions,
                                                 requirements and compliance                                   policies, or requirements.
                                                 with regulatory requirements
                                                 and conformance to AF-
                                                 adopted management systems.
TIER THREE        Who’s Responsible:             What’s Required:                  Frequency:                  Why:

EXTERNAL          MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs                Tier 3 external assessments       Evaluation must be          To conduct a targeted evaluation of
EVALUATION        ESOHC and                      focus primarily on assessing      conducted at all major      compliance with federal, state,
                  MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs                the adequacy and performance      installations and           local, DoD, and AF instructions,
                  Functionals                    of ESOH management and            appropriate facilities at   policies, or requirements and
                                                 shall include a tailored/scoped   least every 3 years.        conformance to AF-adopted
                                                 regulatory compliance                                         management systems.
                                                 evaluation.
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010   27
                                         Attachment 3
                             ESOHCAMP REPORT FORMAT

A3.1. Executive Summary. The executive summary contains background information and a
summary of findings.
   A3.1.1. Introduction. The introduction contains the minimum essential information, such
   as date and location of the assessment, identification of the assessment team, and overall
   assessment purpose. This section rarely exceeds one page and is needed by a reader who has
   not been involved with the assessment.
   A3.1.2. Summary of Findings. This section includes positive and negative comments,
   major ESOH issues, a summary of compliance status by protocol, conformance status of the
   management system and the ESOH Compliance Summary Table.
A3.2. Background and Scope This chapter is reserved for information that does not fit into the
executive summary or the findings section, but is necessary to make a complete report.
   A3.2.1. Background.
       A3.2.1.1. ESOHCAMP Objectives. Present ESOHCAMP objectives as stated in this
       Instruction, and all unique individual objectives for each assessment.
       A3.2.1.2. ESOH. Describe in general terms how the installation’s management system
       is structured to accommodate the three disciplines (E, S, and OH). Specify the discipline
       being audited (E, S, or OH) and which standard was used as the management model for
       that discipline.
   A3.2.2. Scope.
       A3.2.2.1. Activity Review. Describe the installation activities that were assessed (this is
       the appropriate section for positive observations). Comment on the laws, regulations, and
       policy that were considered or used during the assessment. This includes state, local,
       host-nation, and international agreement requirements, as well as EVAs and past
       assessments.
       A3.2.2.2. Summary of Assessment Procedures. A statement that the assessment
       included a review of documentation, inspection of facilities, and interviews of personnel.
A3.3. Findings.
   A3.3.1. Finding Status. This chapter contains finding and observation details identified
   during the assessment. Ensure that each finding is defined clearly and concisely, describes
   the specific condition or action in a factual manner, and is free of the evaluator’s opinions.
   Each noncompliant situation requiring corrective and preventive actions shall have a
   corresponding management action plan. Finding details are organized in accordance with
   Air Force and MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs supplements to the TEAM and OSH Guide to include
   protocols, report tables, etc.
   A3.3.2. Finding Identification Codes. Each finding of environmental non-compliance
   must be assigned the applicable identification codes (FIC) listed in the Air Force or
   MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs supplements to the TEAM Guide. The purpose of the codes is to
AFI90-803 24 MARCH 2010                                                                  29


  improve and simplify tracking, identify Air Force-wide ESOH problems, and to improve
  program management.
  A3.3.3. Root Cause Analysis. Root cause analysis is the method used to identify immediate
  and underlying, or root causes of an incident or untoward event. The analysis of the root
  cause aims to find the proper corrective and preventive actions to apply that remove that
  cause and thereby prevent both a recurrence of the incident and its potential future
  occurrence in other parts of the organization. Root causes should be investigated for each
  finding in the assessment.
