BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-203
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)
                                                                                   Supplement
                                                                                9 APRIL 2014

                                                                                        Safety

                                                          AIR FORCE CONSOLIDATED
                                                 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY INSTRUCTION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 27 SOW/SE                                                       Certified by: 27 SOW/SE
                                                                (Lt Col Christopher C. Portele)
                                                                                       Pages: 9
Supersedes: AFOSHSTD91-5_CANNONAFBSUP
            30 June 1999;
            AFOSHSTD91-25_CANNONAFBSUP
            10 June 2011; and
            AFOSHSTD91-501_CANNONAFBSUP
            11 August 2006


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated
Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012. This supplement establishes policies and
procedures, assigns responsibilities, and requirements to aid in the development of a
comprehensive Fire Prevention and Protection Program on Cannon Air Force Base. It applies to
all military personnel, family members, civilian personnel, contractors, concessionaires, and
tenants on Cannon. Violations of specific prohibitions and requirements of this supplement by
military personnel may result in disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ). Violations by civilians may result in appropriate disciplinary action to include
administrative action such as reprimand or criminal prosecution under applicable State and
Federal statutes. Question relating to specific requirements within this document should be
directed to the controlling office; Fire & Emergency Services (F), Wing Safety (S), or
Bioenvironmental Engineering (B). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
 2                                               AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014


questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement replaces and substantially changes all 91-series AFOSH standards supplements
and must be reviewed in its entirety. AFI91-203 has merged Air Force safety principles,
concepts and program elements into a single consolidated occupational safety and health
document.
1.4.4.5. (Added)    Monthly self-inspections will be documented IAW AFI 91-202, para. 3.5. (S)
1.4.6.5. (Added) Anyone, regardless of rank or position, may call “Knock It Off” (KIO) if
they feel a situation is unsafe. All work will cease until the unsafe condition or the individual's
concerns are alleviated. Anyone who is retaliated against for calling KIO will contact the Wing
Safety office who will investigate the incident. (S)
1.11.4. (Added) Fire protection and fire safety related issues will be coordinated by the Base
Fire Chief and Base Fire Marshal prior to sending to the MAJCOM. (F)
1.12. (Added) Any first aid rendered by other than designated first responders is rendered only
as a collateral duty, responding solely to injuries resulting from workplace incidents, generally at
the location where the incident occurred does not constitute a first responder. As anyone may
render first aid to a coworker, to meet the requirement for awareness training the following is
required to be added to all Job Safety Training Outline as paragraph 17:


       Bloodborne Pathogens. Reference: 29 CFR 1910.1030:
       Workers in many different occupations are at risk of exposure to bloodborne pathogens,
       including Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and HIV/AIDS. Treat all human blood and bodily
       fluids as if they are infected with HIV, HBV, HCV and other bloodborne pathogens.
       Anyone exposed to anyone else’s blood should take the following precautions:

       Contact with skin: wash exposed areas with antibacterial soap and running water.
       Contact with eyes or mucous membranes: flush affected area with running water for at
       least 15 minutes.
       Contact with clothing: remove contaminated clothing, wash underlying skin.
       Report exposure to supervisor immediately.


5.8.5. (Added) Office size garbage cans are exempt providing trash bags are used and trash
does not come in contact with the container. (S)
6.2.1.6. (Added)       The Fire & Emergency Services (FES) Fire Prevention Office will be
notified at least 3 duty days prior to any major social event, activity, or concessionaire setup that
involves temporary decorations, changes to the usual interior arrangement or deviation from the
established use of the facility. A FES representative will inspect the facility to ensure all fire
safety measures have been met prior the event’s opening to the public. (F)
AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014                                                             3


6.2.1.6.1. (Added) Ensure a responsible individual is assigned as a crowd manager during
hours of operation to ensure complete and orderly evacuation of the building in the event of an
emergency and to initiate prompt notification of FES. (F)
6.2.1.6.2. (Added) A designated, responsible individual must check all exit doors daily, prior
to the entry of patrons, to ensure that doors are unlocked and that panic hardware is operational.
Report malfunctions to the 27th Special Operations Civil Engineer (CE) Squadron Service Call
Desk promptly. (F)
6.2.1.6.3. (Added) Aisles leading to exits must not be obstructed by tables, decorations,
displays, partitions, or portable seating at any time. (F)
6.2.2. (Added)    QAE duties for commercial cooking hood cleaning will be performed by FES
personnel. (F)
6.2.2.2.6. (Added) Deep fat fryer units with either primary or secondary thermostatic control
devices out of service will not be operated until they have been repaired and certified by
electrical technicians. The using organization shall immediately notify the FES Fire Prevention
Office when a deep fat fryer is placed in a non-operational status and upon its return. Newly
procured or replaced deep fat fryer units will not be placed in service until primary and
secondary thermostats have been tested, certified, and tagged by electrical technicians. Test
results shall be affixed to the unit. (F)
6.2.4.1.1. (Added)       The FES Fire Prevention Office will determine the type, number,
distribution, and placement of portable fire extinguishers for all Cannon AFB facilities and
geographically separated units. The purchase of fire extinguishers for use in any facility or
mobile conveyance will be coordinated through the Fire Prevention Office prior to purchase to
ensure a valid need for the extinguisher exists and the appropriate unit is purchased. (F)
6.2.4.1.1.1. (Added) Halon 1211 Fire Extinguishers will only be used for aircraft protection
and for those requirements outlined in T.O. 00-25-172. (F)
6.2.4.1.1.2. (Added) Fire extinguishers provided for protection of flammable liquid storage,
flammable liquid transfer, and/or flammable liquid operations will be of the dry chemical or dry
powder type. FES will determine the required extinguisher size. (F)
6.2.4.1.2. (Added) Fire extinguishers will be permanently mounted to walls using an approved
bracket or placed in recessed or semi-recessed fire extinguisher cabinets. No fire extinguisher
will be removed or repositioned to another location without the written approval of the FES Fire
Prevention Office. (F)
6.2.4.4. (Added)       MILCON, O&M, SABER, IDIQ, and AAFES construction/renovation
projects will include the requirement for the contractor to provide new fire extinguishers for any
new requirements within the facility. The extinguisher(s) will be of a size and type designated by
FES. (F)
6.2.4.4.1. (Added) The FES Fire Prevention Office will maintain a listing of certified/licensed
suggested sources for fire extinguisher repair, servicing, and maintenance. (F)
6.2.4.4.2. (Added) Fire extinguishers that have been used to extinguish a fire, discharged,
have broken seals, missing pins, or become inoperative, are the responsibility of the using
organization. The using organization must contract to inspect, maintain, service, repair, or
replace extinguishers as needed. The facility manager will ensure that a replacement fire
 4                                              AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014


extinguisher is placed in the location of the unserviceable extinguisher until the unserviceable
extinguisher has been repaired or replaced. Contractors who perform repair/service/maintenance
will be licensed and certified to perform the work required. (F)
6.2.4.5. (Added)      Fire extinguishers will not be used for any purpose other than the
extinguishment of fires. Tampering, disabling, unwarranted discharging, or unauthorized
relocation of extinguishers will result in administrative or disciplinary action. (F)
6.2.4.8.2. (Added)       If an extinguisher is used or found to require servicing, the using
organization transports the extinguisher to the Fire Extinguisher Service Required Line and
replaces it with a serviceable extinguisher from the Ready Line. (F)
6.2.4.9.1. (Added) Documentation of annual, 6-year, hydrostatic, and reservicing maintenance
will be by a tag or adhesive label, conforming to the requirements of National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) Standard 10, attached to the individual fire extinguisher and completed by a
qualified contractor or person certified to perform these tasks. (F)
6.2.4.9.2. (Added) Documentation of monthly inspections can be by log book, computer
database, checklist, or annotating the reverse side of the annual maintenance tag. Documentation
will consist of the date inspected, inspector’s name or initials, and identification of the specific
extinguisher inspected (serial or local I.D. Number) and location. (F)
6.2.4.10. (Added) Persons who could be required to operate specialized fire extinguishers (i.e.
150 lb. Halon 1211 Flightline, 50 lb. Wheeled Dry Chemical, Metal-X, etc.) will receive
specialized training on the operation and use of the extinguisher within 10 days of assignment to
duties which could require fire extinguisher use. This training can be provided by FES, unit task
certified individuals, or the respective fire extinguisher manufacturer's representative. (F)
6.2.5.1.1. (Added) Facility managers and using organizations must budget for and contract the
maintenance for any residential hood dry or wet chemical suppression systems installed within
their break rooms, dormitory common cooking areas, and other noncommercial cooking
facilities. The inspection and maintenance of these units will be performed by a
certified/qualified contractor. Cooking will not be permitted when the suppression system is
inoperative or has passed inspection date. (F)
6.2.5.3. (Added) Personnel who work in areas with aqueous film forming foam (AFFF), wet
chemical, or other specialized extinguishing systems will receive initial education, and annual
refresher training. This training will be conducted by the Fire Prevention Office or work area
supervisors who have been task certified to conduct the training by the Fire Prevention Office. A
record of this training will be maintained on the employee’s AF Form 55 or recurring training
record. (F)
6.2.8.2. (Added) A record of smoke detector maintenance and testing will be maintained in
the unit’s MFH Facility Folder, maintained in the MFH Office. (F)
6.2.15.8. (Added) A primary and secondary responsible person for special needs evacuation
assistance will be designated in writing for each office/section having special needs employees,
or who provide a service which could involve special needs individuals (i.e. customers service
offices, public assistance functions, etc.). Special needs employees are required to make their
supervisors aware of their needs for assistance. (F)
6.2.16. (Added)    Training will be conducted within 3 calendar days of starting work. (F)
AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014                                                              5


6.2.17.11. (Added) 150 lb. Halon Flight Line Fire Extinguisher Training (initial hands-on) is
required for all newly assigned aircraft maintenance and servicing personnel. (F)
6.2.18. (Added) Upon request, fire prevention personnel will conduct fire prevention training,
lectures, and informational presentations for organizations and social groups. This training is
available on any fire safety or fire protection related subject and may consist of lectures, films,
and/or demonstrations. (F)
6.3.6. (Added) Force protection actions do not take precedence over life safety requirements.
(F)
7.2.1.2.5. (Added) Signs will be removed as soon as the area dries, leaving signs out on dry
floors leads to complacency and workers may disregard the warning when needed. (S)
7.3.2.15.7. (Added) External stairs consisting of more than one flight will not be used when
winds are forecast above 35 mph, except in emergencies. (S)
8.4.1.3. (Added) Extension cords will be unplugged when no longer required for use and at
the end of each work day. Equipment items requiring the permanent use of extension cords will
be relocated as so they can be plugged directly into wall outlets. (F)
8.4.1.14. (Added)      Extension cords bearing the Factory Mutual (FM) and Intertec (ETL)
certification may be utilized. (F)
8.4.2.1. (Added) The use of extension cords on space heaters, coffee pots, hot plates, etc. is
prohibited. The permitted use of extension cords in this section applies only to necessary tool
use. (F)
9.2. (Added) ID card lanyards worn around the neck must have a breakaway device, so as to
be disconnected from the wearer if snagged on anything. (S)
12.5.1.3. (Added)     Power tools without a ground wire must have a manufacturer’s ID label
affixed. (S)
12.5.1.3.1. (Added) If there is a defect or evidence of damage that might expose an employee
to injury, the defective or damaged item shall be removed from service, and no employee may
use it until repairs and tests necessary to render the equipment safe have been made. (S)
14.3.2.3. (Added) Supervisors shall ensure that employees only use PPE that has been
approved/certified by BE for occupational health hazards. (B)
14.4.2.3. (Added)    All safety glasses must have a manufacturer’s Z87 or higher identification
on them. (S)
14.4.3.1. (Added) Hard hats will not be worn backwards unless specifically designed for that
purpose (i.e. welder’s helmet). According to a letter issued by OSHA on July 22, 1992, under
§1926.100(a) and (b), hard hats used by employees must be worn with the bill facing forward
unless the hard hat manufacturer certifies that the bill facing back meets ANSI Z89.1-1969. (S)
14.4.4.1. (Added) Workplace supervisors shall refer to the Hazardous Noise Matrix provided
by BE for authorized hearing protection devices. (B)
14.4.5. (Added)    Voluntary use respirators (i.e. dust masks) must be approved by Bio-
Environmental Engineering and personnel trained IAW 29 CFR 1910.134 Appendix D. (B)
 6                                              AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014


14.4.11.3.3. (Added) Contact BE for assistance in determining breakthrough times and
selecting adequate chemical protective clothing. (B)
14.4.11.4.2.3.1. (Added) Contact CE Environmental (CEIE) for questions regarding hazardous
waste disposal. (B)
19.9.2. (Added)      Weekly/monthly eyewash station inspections will be documented and
attached to the eyewash station. (S)
21.1.3.3. (Added) Service/Administrative Locks will be purple in color and have a single key
controlled by the facility manager or work center supervisor. Units may spray paint any lock for
this purpose and need not specifically purchase a purple lock. Purple locks are not authorized in
Lock Out/Tag Out (LOTO) kits or for LOTO purposes or for general use. (S)
21.2.1. (Added)      Unless a work center is responsible for servicing, maintenance or
modification of a piece of machinery, a LOTO program is not required. However, the facility
manager or work center supervisor will maintain a service administrative lock and ensure all
employees are aware of its color and purpose. Supervisors will maintain a list of equipment items
which will be locked using the service administrative lock. (S)
21.3.2.1. (Added) LOTO locks may be any color, except purple, as long as they are different
from any other lock used in the work center and are readily identifiable by any affected
employee. (S)
21.4.9. (Added)     If applying a Service/Administrative Lock the supervisor/facility manager
will:


       a) Notify affected employees that the item is being taken off line.
       b) Shutoff item at control switch.
       c) Shutoff power at breaker and install Service/Administrative Lock.
       d) Attempt to restart machine at control switch to verify power has been removed and
       then place control switch back to off. (S)


22.5.1. (Added) Pre-fire plans are not required for facilities containing flammable storage
cabinets meeting the requirements of par 22.5.3., except as directed by the base fire chief,
Technical Orders, or AFIs. (F)
22.5.3. (Added) Non-liquid combustible materials (i.e. cardboard boxes, tape, rags, etc.) will
not be stored in the cabinet unless approved by FES. Shipping boxed that protect multiple sub-
packages are permitted however, once empty or a single container is left, the box must be
discarded. (F)
22.5.3.3.3. (Added) Storage lockers vent openings will be sealed when located inside
buildings. Storage lockers located outside will have the vent caps removed. (F)
22.5.3.4.2. (Added)    Storage is not permitted in the spill retention area. (F)
22.5.3.4.3. (Added) The spill retention area will be liquid tight and covered with approved
materials to prevent liquid absorption into the wood. (F)
AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014                                                                7


22.5.8.6. (Added)    Fire extinguisher will have a 40-B rating or higher as directed by FES. (F)
23.2.3.2. (Added) Training assistance will be limited to assisting in the identification of
governmental and commercial sources for training. (F)
23.2.3.5. (Added) Evaluations will be limited to that which can be performed on-hand FES
monitoring equipment.         When on-hand equipment cannot meet monitoring/evaluation
requirements, BE will be contacted for assistance by the organization making entry or requesting
the space evaluation. Evaluations and monitoring of contractor entries and space evaluations is
the responsibility of the contractor making the entry or requiring the evaluation. (F)
23.2.5.4.6. (Added) This list will be detailed and identify specific equipment and quantities,
i.e. not solely supplied air respirator but “supplied air respirator, MSA Model 123, one each for
each entrant.” (F)
23.2.8.12.4. (Added) Organizational rescue teams are the responsibility of the entry supervisor
and will be the primary first responder for on-site emergencies. Fire Emergency Services will
only provide services once an emergency is declared and/or an emergency rescue is initiated. (F)
23.5.4.6. (Added)    FES will be notified prior to all permit required entries. (F)
23.5.4.11.6. (Added) The entry supervisor will notify SEG of the reclassification prior to any
entry into the confined space. (S)
23.6.1.3. (Added) Organizational Rescue Team. When confined space permit-required work is
performed the entry supervisor/authority will ensure an organizational rescue team is on-site
prior to any entry. (S)
23.8.1.2. (Added) Generally, the Fire Emergency Services Flight will not provide rescue
teams as this is a contractor responsibility; and will be provided for in the SOW and Contract.
Emergency services only will be provided by FES. (F)
24.2.2. (Added) Aircraft maintenance and storage will not be conducted in hangars where fire
protective systems are not fully functional unless an approved risk mitigation plan has been
developed and a variance has been granted by the appropriate approval authority, as outlined in
AFI 32-2001 and AFI 32-10141. (F)
24.3.3.5. (Added) When aircraft parts require welding, they will be removed from the aircraft
when possible, and welded in the appropriate welding shop. Welding on aircraft will not be
performed for convenience. (F)
24.11.3. (Added) Dry chemical fire extinguishers will be made available for protection of
areas where Class B Fires would be expected. Halon 1211 Fire Extinguishers will only be used
for fires involving aircraft. (F)
24.14.8.3. (Added) Does not apply to firefighters operating exterior hangar door emergency
override controls under emergency conditions. (F)
24.14.15. (Added) The aircraft removal plan will be coordinated through Wing Safety and
FES and exercised yearly. (F)
25.5.2.6. (Added) Stored pressure water fire extinguishers will be hydrostatically tested every
5 years. Dry chemical and dry powder type fire extinguishers will be hydrostatically tested every
12 years. (F)
 8                                             AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014


27.5.1. (Added) Welding, cutting, and brazing shops, and other interior areas used for this
purpose on a recurring basis, may be coordinated through the Bioenvironmental Engineering
Flight (BE), Ground Safety (SEG) and authorized in writing by the base fire chief. This
authorization will remain in effect for two years from date of issue. Changes to the shop
facilities, occupancy of the building, or changes to the types of welding, cutting and brazing
operations performed will require re-authorization. Operations conducted within approved shop
areas are not required to have an AF Form 592 issued providing the work to be performed and
area have been inspected by an individual who is authorized to issue the AF Form 592. (F)
27.5.1.8.5. (Added)     Block 14 vs. Block 12 will be signed daily for multi-day permits Final
Checks. (F)
27.5.2.2. (Added) Coordination with the BE is not required for those tasks which do not
expose DoD personnel or DoD dependents. (B)
27.5.2.6. (Added) The Permit Authorizing Individual will sign Block 11 for granting the
initial permit and will initial and date Block 11 at each follow-up inspection. Block 14 vs. Block
12 will be signed daily for multi-day permits Final Checks. (F)
27.5.2.6.1. (Added)      In areas containing hazardous, flammable, or explosive materials or
processes, authorized fire department personnel only will issue the AF Form 592. (F)
27.5.2.6.2. (Added) Only personnel in the grade of SSgt or higher, or civilian equivalent, will
be certified to issue permits. Should an organization require individuals in lower grades to issue
permits, the unit commander will request an exemption from the base fire chief to this
requirement. (F)
27.5.2.6.2.1. (Added)    Certifications are valid for one year from the date of certificate issue.
(F)
27.5.3. (Added) The appropriately signed, original AF Form 592 will be returned to the Base
Fire Prevention Office following completion of the welding, cutting or brazing operation for
which it was issued. (F)
27.10.16.1. (Added) When aircraft parts require welding they will be removed from the
aircraft, when possible, and welded in the appropriate welding shop. (F)
27.10.16.10. (Added) Fire extinguisher will have, a minimum, 4-A rating in addition to the
required BC rating. (F)
AFI91-203_CANNONAFBSUP 9 APRIL 2014                                                             9


Table 27.2. How to Fill Out AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit.


Block 13.   (Added) This block will contain one of three following entries appropriate to the
            work, conditions, and BE response to the AF Form 592 request:

            Name, Signature, and Duty Title of the BE who coordinates on the AF Form 592
            Name of BE representative who determined coordination is not required
            Statement indicating no DoD personnel or DoD Dependent exposure to the work (F)
28.6.1. (Added)       The authority having jurisdiction for the permitted numbers of storage
cabinets is the base fire chief. (F)
29.3.5.1. (Added) The NFPA 704 marking system is optional for use on Cannon AFB. If the
NFPA 704 marking is used it must be highly visible, in good repair, and current to the container
it is providing the warning. If the NFPA 704 marking is not being utilized, it must be painted
over or obscured so as not to be visible. (F)
29.3.5.10. (Added)      Electroluminescent (LEC) and cold cathode type exit signs are not
approved for use. Exit sign lettering will be red. (F)
32.5.1.1. (Added) Unless the work area is designated as an authorized welding shop, an AF
Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, will be required prior to any open flame work. (F)
32.5.1.2. (Added) Welding shops will also be approved by the BE. (B)
32.5.3. (Added) BC and ABC rated dry chemical or dry powder, and ARF fire extinguishers
are to be used for E85 type fires. (F)
32.9.1.12. (Added) The using/owning organization must fund and contract for the required
inspections, maintenance, and servicing of fire protection and fire suppression systems installed
for the protection of dip tanks. Contractors contracted must be trained and certified to perform
the service by the respective state from which they are based. (F)
35.2.3.5. (Added) LP Gas materials handling equipment, which is parked indoors, will have
the LP Gas cylinders shut-off at the cylinder valve at the end of each day, prior to employees
leaving the facility. (F)




                                            TONY D. BAUERNFEIND, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
