BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-2002
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         19 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                          Special Management

                                                        AIR FORCE INTERACTIONS WITH
                                                       FEDERALLY-RECOGNIZED TRIBES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/IEE                                                               Certified by: SAF/IE
                                                                    (Kathleen I. Ferguson, P.E.)
                                                                                      Pages: 17
Supersedes:   AFGM2014-90-02,
              18 July 2014


This instruction implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4710.02, DoD
Interactions with Federally-Recognized Tribes, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-20,
Encroachment Management Program. It directs all echelons to build relationships and conduct
consultation with federally-recognized Indian/Alaska Native tribes, bands, nations, pueblos, or
communities as required by federal laws and regulations, Executive Orders, and Presidential
Memoranda listed in Attachment 1. This AFI applies to all Air Force (AF) installations within
the United States, Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF), major commands
(MAJCOMs), the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), direct reporting units (DRUs), field-
operating agencies (FOAs), and Government-Owned, Contractor-Operated (GOCO) facilities,
including those not located on AF installations. For the purposes of this AFI, AFRC will operate
as a MAJCOM. The National Guard Bureau (NGB) will support the intent of this AFI by
preparing an appropriate policy document reflecting its unique legal status and structure, as
recognized by the reserve component authorities of Title 10 of the United States Code, Air Force
Doctrine and other governing authorities. MAJCOMs and GOCOs, DRUs and FOAs may
supplement this Instruction. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs must send a draft copy of their
proposed supplement to HQ USAF Office of the Director of Civil Engineers (HQ USAF/A4C)
for coordination; all other component commands excluding NGB send one copy of each
supplement to Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Environment, Safety and Infrastructure
(SAF/IEE). The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated
 2                                                         AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered
compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command.
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                     3


                                           Chapter 1

                                  PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Purpose of this AFI. This AFI addresses fundamentals of policy, responsibilities, and
essential procedures. It is intended to implement DoDI 4710.02, DoD Interactions with
Federally-Recognized Tribes, which supports the unique trust relationship the U.S. government
has with tribes and emphasizes aspects of the Air Force’s mission that may affect tribes.
Detailed guidance on installation level procedures will be provided in adaptable tools such as the
AF’s Civil Engineer Process Playbooks and AF Operational Airspace Instructions.
1.2. Definitions. Clear understanding of terminology associated with interaction with tribes is
essential. Important terms include the following:
   1.2.1. Commander. Military O-6 (or above) or equivalent civilian leader of the installation,
   wing, or other AF organization with the authority to enter into agreements with tribes on
   installation/organization actions that affect those tribes.
   1.2.2. Indian Lands. Any lands the title to which is either, (1) held in trust by the United
   States for the benefit of any Indian tribe or Individual, or, (2) held by an Indian tribe or
   Individual as defined by DoDI 4710.02 and Title 32 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part
   229.3(f), Protection of Archaeological Resources, Definitions, 1 July 2011.
   1.2.3. Tribe. A federally-recognized Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo,
   village, or community that the Secretary of Interior published in the Federal Register
   pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, as amended, Title 25
   United States Code (USC) Section 479a.
   1.2.4. Protected Tribal Resources. Those natural resources and properties of traditional or
   customary religious or cultural importance, either on or off Indian lands, retained by or
   reserved by or for Indian tribes through treaties, statutes, judicial decisions, or Executive
   Orders, including tribal trust resources.
   1.2.5. Tribal Rights. Those rights legally accruing to a tribe or tribes by virtue of inherent
   sovereign authority, un-extinguished aboriginal title, treaty, statute, judicial decision,
   Executive Order, or agreement, and that give rise to legally enforceable remedies.
   1.2.6. Government-to-Government. The relationship between federally-recognized tribes
   and the United States is one between sovereigns, i.e., between a government and a
   government.
   1.2.7. Consultation. Primarily, a process involving regular meetings, preferably face-to-face,
   supplemented by written, telephone, and electronic communications about issues and
   concerns important to the parties involved. Consultation involving tribes is most effective
   when based on respect, trust, and strong relationships between Air Force leaders and tribal
   leaders. It is a dynamic, ongoing dialogue including face-to-face communication at both
   technical and leadership levels, and not necessarily driven by a single need or issue.
   Achieving consensus, when possible, is a major goal. Legal requirements often prompt
   specific consultation efforts, resulting in formal agreements.
 4                                                              AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


1.3. Policy. It is AF policy to:
     1.3.1. Take into consideration the significance that tribes place on protected tribal resources.
     1.3.2. Meet responsibilities to tribes as derived from federal trust doctrine, treaties, and
     agreements between the United States Government and tribal governments, and comply with
     federal laws and regulations, Executive Orders, and Presidential Memoranda governing
     interactions with tribes.
     1.3.3. Build stable and enduring government-to-government relations with federally-
     recognized tribal governments in a manner that sustains the AF mission and minimizes
     effects on protected tribal resources and activities.
     1.3.4. Fully integrate, down to staff officers and civilian staff personnel at the installation
     level, the principles and practices of meaningful consultation and effective cross-cultural
     communication with tribal representatives.
1.4. General.
     1.4.1. An Installation Commander’s role is similar to that of an ambassador and sets the tone
     for discussions geared towards building relationship between and of mutual benefit to the Air
     Force and tribes.
     1.4.2. Face-to-face engagement with tribes will be facilitated by development of formal
     agreements identifying mutual goals and general protocols, and/or other formal issue-based
     agreements. The primary goal of such agreements is to foster relationships aimed at
     facilitating AF missions while respecting issues of importance to tribes.
     1.4.3. Installations will consult with tribes early in the planning process when a proposed
     action may have the potential to significantly affect protected tribal resources, tribal rights, or
     Indian Lands (e.g., Title 32 CFR Part 989, the Environmental Impact Analysis Process, 20
     June 2014). Matters of interest to tribes as well as protocols will be established in advance of
     the need for issue-based consultation between installation and tribal leaders.
     1.4.4. Installations will provide regular updates to and seek feedback from interested and/or
     potentially affected tribes regarding ongoing activities of the installation where such
     activities might affect protected tribal resources, tribal rights, or Indian Lands.
1.5. Activities Typically Involving Tribes.
     1.5.1. AF planning actions that may affect tribes include, but are not limited to (a) land-
     disturbing activities, (b) construction, (c) training, (d) over-flights, (e) management and
     protection of properties of traditional religious and cultural importance including historic
     properties and sacred sites, (f) activities involving access to sacred sites, (g) disposition of
     cultural/funerary items in accordance with the Native American Graves Protection and
     Repatriation Act (NAGPRA), (h) natural resources management activities, (i) educational
     and public affairs activities linked to tribal topics, and (j) other land use/military airspace
     operations in general.
     1.5.2. Installations are required to develop and maintain an Integrated Cultural Resources
     Management Plan (ICRMP) per AFI 32-7065, Cultural Resources Management Program.
     Tribes having a historic or cultural affiliation with lands addressed by an installation’s
     ICRMP or otherwise attaching religious and cultural importance to historic properties or
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                 5


  sacred sites covered by the ICRMP will be provided opportunities to consult on and
  participate in the development and maintenance of the ICRMP. Additionally, since most
  tribes attribute cultural significance to natural resources, tribes should be briefed on the
  content of the natural resources program, and provided the opportunity to consult on and
  participate in, as appropriate, update or development of Integrated Natural Resource
  Management Plans (INRMPs), AFI 32-7064, Natural Resource Management Program in
  accordance with the Installation Tribal Relations Plan. The ICRMP will include an appended
  Installation Tribal Relations Plans (ITRP) and/or copies of formal written agreements
  (Memoranda of Understandings, Comprehensive Agreements, Programmatic Agreements,
  etc.).
 6                                                              AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                               ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, & Energy
(SAF/IE) through the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety
& Infrastructure (SAF/IEE) shall:
     2.1.1. Serve as the principal AF representative on all tribal-related issues with the Office of
     the Secretary of Defense (OSD) staff, other federal agencies, and Congress.
     2.1.2. Serve as, or appoint, an AF Tribal Liaison Officer (AFTLO) who is the OPR for the
     AF Tribal Relations Program and advocate within the Air Force Corporate Structure for
     tribal relations resources.
     2.1.3. Provide guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the
     formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets related to Air
     Force government-to-government tribal interaction.
     2.1.4. Delegate authority to the HQ USAF/A4C and all other component commands
     including ANG for tribal program execution management.
     2.1.5. Enhance AF organizational understanding of tribal issues through education, training
     programs and outreach activities.
     2.1.6. Oversee AF implementation of, and compliance with, this Air Force Instruction (AFI).
2.2. The Air Force Tribal Liaison Officer (AFTLO) shall:
     2.2.1. Promptly notify higher headquarters concerning tribal issues that have the potential to
     be elevated.
     2.2.2. Coordinate policy and best practices with other federal agencies and tribal
     organizations, as appropriate, on tribal issues of regional and national scope.
     2.2.3. Engage in government-to-government relations with federally-recognized tribes, as
     appropriate, when requested by installations, installation support teams (ISTs), or tribes.
     Consult in a time and manner responsive to stakeholder interests and means.
     2.2.4. Identify a single installation that will serve as the designated Point of Contact (POC)
     for a tribe in cases where more than one installation manages airspace over a specific tribe’s
     land, for that airspace activity.
     2.2.5. Ensure installation commanders receive appropriate senior level training that
     highlights tribal history, laws, treaties, and government-to-government consultation
     requirements and techniques.
     2.2.6. Honor treaties and implement trust relationships.
     2.2.7. Work with non-federally-recognized tribes and interest groups, when appropriate.
     2.2.8. Integrate the requirements of federal laws and regulations, Executive Orders, and
     Presidential Memoranda, regarding AF interactions with tribes into AFIs and guidance.
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                    7


   2.2.9. Issue specific guidance regarding training and funding opportunities pertinent to this
   AFI.
   2.2.10. Review and approve Commanders’ requests for alternate ITRP to deviate from
   conducting twice-yearly face-to-face meetings with tribal leaders.
2.3. The Director, Public Affairs, (SAF/PA) shall:
   2.3.1. Develop Air Force strategic messaging on tribal relations in coordination with the
   AFTLO.
   2.3.2. Assist AF organizations in developing cross-cultural communication opportunities.
   2.3.3. Develop mechanisms to coordinate communication between tribal leadership,
   installations, and headquarters leadership with AFTLO.
2.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) shall:
   2.4.1. Incorporate the policies of this Instruction into AF operational instructions when
   installation, airspace and/or range operations may affect tribal lands, rights, resources or
   interests.
2.5. The Air Force General Counsel, Installations, Energy and Environmental Law
(SAF/GCN) and the Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Environmental Law Field
Support Center (AFLOA/JACE-FSC) shall:
   2.5.1. Provide legal counsel to all AF organizations concerning the application of Indian
   treaties, Indian case law, and DoD policies to AF plans, activities and operations.
   2.5.2. Assist AF organizations in identifying and complying with requirements of federal
   laws and regulations, Executive Orders, and Presidential Memoranda governing interactions
   with tribes.
   2.5.3. Provide subject-matter expertise and assistance to installation legal offices on issues
   involving American Indian and Alaskan Native tribes.
2.6. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4)
through the Office of the Air Force Director of Civil Engineers (AF/A4C) shall:
   2.6.1. Plan, program, and budget for statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to
   interactions with tribes within available resources.
   2.6.2. Develop and implement the AF Tribal Relations Program to monitor, achieve, and
   maintain compliance with this Instruction, including compliance by installations and their
   tenant activities. The AF Tribal Relations Program will specify how the AF will coordinate
   or consult with tribes for various kinds of actions, at different scales of complexity.
   2.6.3. Prepare and issue guidance for executing tribal relations program policy and
   supplemental guidance; advocate for resources; and oversee execution of tribal relation
   programs and management requirements throughout the AF.
   2.6.4. Review and forward Commanders’ requests for alternate ITRP to deviate from
   conducting twice-yearly face-to-face meetings with tribal leaders to AFTLO for final
   approval.
   2.6.5. Provide installation Annual Report to the AFTLO.
 8                                                             AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


2.7. The Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC) shall:
     2.7.1. Assist Commanders in identifying tribes with historic or cultural affiliation with lands
     controlled, used or overflown by the AF.
     2.7.2. Direct and oversee the development and maintenance of ITRPs at AF installations.
     2.7.3. Develop and provide subject matter experts (SMEs) for installations and reach-back
     support to HAF and MAJCOMs.
     2.7.4. Provide support to installations concerning compliance with inventory, reporting,
     curation, disposal, and notification procedures according to federal laws.
     2.7.5. Ensure installation pre-publication NAGPRA notices are coordinated through the IST
     to the AF Cultural Resources SME and AFLOA/JACE-FSC.
     2.7.6. Develop metrics and evaluate implementation of installation tribal programs where
     tribal interests or resources may be affected.
     2.7.7. Ensure tribal relations lesson learned and best practices are institutionalized
     throughout the AF.
     2.7.8. Provide training to installation personnel on tribal culture, history, laws, and treaties,
     as well as access, use and privacy issues that may be affected by AF operations, such as low-
     level flights and access to sacred sites.
     2.7.9. Assist installation personnel in developing information on cross-functional education
     and economic opportunities that can be shared with tribes.
     2.7.10. Coordinate with installations on alternate ITRPs and Annual Reports.
2.8. Major Commands (MAJCOMs) shall:
     2.8.1. Oversee implementation of ITRPs and provide MAJCOM specific guidance to their
     installations, as appropriate.
     2.8.2. Review Commanders’ requests for alternate ITRP to deviate from conducting twice-
     yearly face-to-face meetings with tribal leaders and forward to AF/A4C for AFTLO final
     approval.
     2.8.3. Provide installation Annual Report through AF/A4C to the AFTLO.
2.9. Installation Commanders (or designated O-6 representative or equivalent civilian
leader, empowered to make decisions for the commander) shall:
     2.9.1. Conduct at least twice-yearly face-to-face meetings to establish mutually beneficial
     relationships with tribal leaders, and to periodically discuss installation or tribal issues of
     interest. If conducting twice-yearly face-to-face meetings with tribal leaders is not practical,
     the Commander shall develop an alternate ITRP to meet the intent of this Instruction,
     coordinate with AFCEC CZ, and submit through the MAJCOM and AF/A4C to the AFTLO
     for final approval. (T-0).
     2.9.2. Personally initiate consultation when first contacting tribes. Follow-on interaction
     shall be at a level and using procedures agreed upon by the installation commander and tribal
     leadership. (T-0).
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                        9


   2.9.3. Involve tribal governments early in the planning process for proposed actions that may
   have the potential to significantly affect protected tribal rights, land, or resources. (T-0).
   2.9.4. Designate a military or civilian government employee as the Installation Tribal
   Liaison Officer (ITLO), trained commensurate with the responsibilities of the position, to
   interface between senior leadership and other staff across the installation. (T-0).
   2.9.5. Ensure that proponents of actions on installation lands or in installation-managed
   airspace coordinate tribal issues with the host installation in order to identify and address
   tribal concerns early in the planning process. (T-0).
   2.9.6. Review and provide an Annual Report coordinate with AFCEC CZ, and submit
   through the parent MAJCOM and AF/A4C, to the AFTLO, within 90 days following the end
   of the fiscal year. (T-0).
2.10. The ITLO shall:
   2.10.1. Develop and oversee the implementation of the ITRP in accordance with this
   Instruction and supplementary guidance. (T-1).
   2.10.2. Identify, in consultation with tribal leaders, a tribal representative to work routine
   issues. (T-3).
   2.10.3. Coordinate with the installation Small Business Director to increase local tribal
   awareness of Small Business Administration and Business Development Program
   opportunities, for example requirements for prequalification of tribal firms, etc. (T-0).
   2.10.4. Verify tribes having a historic or cultural affiliation with installation-controlled lands
   or lands under its managed airspace are identified. (T-1).
   2.10.5. Ensure compliance with the installation/tribal written agreement whenever a planned
   action has the potential to significantly affect protected tribal resources, tribal rights, or
   Indian lands. (T-1).
   2.10.6. Ensure the ICRMP describe appropriate tribal consultation protocols. Summarize and
   reference protocols in the INRMP, as appropriate. (T-0).
   2.10.7. Ensure the installation involves tribes in early planning for actions analyzed under
   the AF Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). (T-0).
   2.10.8. Educate installation personnel who conduct activities that may affect tribal lands or
   resources to understand local tribal issues and rights, which may be affected by military
   plans, activities or operations. (T-0).
   2.10.9. Ensure tribes with historic or cultural affiliations with lands and resources managed
   by the installation have opportunities to consult in and/or participate in the development and
   maintenance of the ICRMP and INRMP. (T-0).
   2.10.10. Work with the Installation Cultural Resources Manager and AFCEC specialists to
   consider and strive to protect cultural resources of concern to tribes. (T-0).
   2.10.11. Work with the installation organizations to ensure information on the locations of
   sensitive archaeological resources, traditional tribal places, and sacred sites are not disclosed
   to the general public. (T-0).
 10                                                       AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


   2.10.12. Prepare an Annual Report for the Installation Commander and report on any other
   ITRP activities. (T-1).
   2.10.13. Provide to tribes, upon request, information on acquiring surplus equipment and
   personal property, through the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), Reutilization, Transfer and
   Donation (R/T/D) program. (T-1).
2.11. The Installation Staff Judge Advocate shall:
   2.11.1. Advise the installation commander on relationships with Indian tribes and legal
   requirements for consultation, when requested. (T-3).
   2.11.2. Seek assistance from AFLOA/JACE-FSC in resolving new or complex issues
   requiring a high level of legal expertise. (T-3).
2.12. The Installation Contracting Activity, with assistance as necessary from the Air
Force Installation Contracting Agency (AFICA), shall:
   2.12.1. Coordinate with the appropriate AF entities [e.g. SAF Small Business (SAF/SB) and
   SAF Acquisition (SAF/AQ)] to ensure that the installation is well informed on programs and
   opportunities of potential interest to tribes. (T-1).
   2.12.2. Make information available for distribution to tribes on contracting opportunities,
   grants, and cooperative agreements available to Indian tribes, Native American Corporations,
   and Indian-owned enterprises. (T-1).
   2.12.3. Ensure contracts include Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
   (DFARS) clause 252.226-7001, when required by DFARS 226.1. This clause implements the
   DOD Indian Incentive Program, which is designed to generate business for Indian-Owned
   Economic Enterprises and Indian Organizations. (T-1).
2.13. The Installation Force Support Squadron shall:
   2.13.1. Provide to tribes, upon request, information on education, training, and employment
   opportunities. (T-1).
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                   11


                                           Chapter 3

                              REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Annual Report. Coordinating through the parent MAJCOM and AF/A4C, each
Installation Commander shall submit a report on all tribal relations activities from the previous
fiscal year. This report is due within 90 days following the end of the fiscal year. See
Attachment 2 for report format and content. (T-0).
Effective Date: This AFI is effective immediately.




                                            MIRANDA A. A. BALLENTINE
                                            Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                            (Installations, Environment, and Energy)
 12                                                          AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
NOTE: The user of this instruction is responsible for verifying the currency of the cited
documents.
25 USC §479a, Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, Definitions, 2006 Edition,
Supplement 4
25 USC §1544, Indian Financing Act of 1974, Additional compensation to contractors of
Federal agency, 2006 Edition, Supplement 3
32 CFR Part 229, Protection of Archaeological Resources: Uniform Regulations, 1 July 2001
32 CFR Part 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), 20 June 2014
FAR Part 26, Federal Acquisition Regulations, Other Socioeconomic Programs, 29 May 2014
EO 13175, Consultation and Coordination with Indian Tribal Governments, 6 November 2000
DoDI 4710.02, DoD Interactions with Federally-Recognized Tribes, 14 September 2006
AFPD 32-90, Encroachment Management Program, 12 April 2012
AFGM 2014-90-1, Government-to-Government Relations with Federally-Recognized Tribes, 18
July 2014
AFI 32-7065, Cultural Resources Management Program, 1 June 2004
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACHP—Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLOA/JACE/FSC—Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Environmental Law Field Support
Center
AFTLO—Air Force Tribal Liaison Officer
ARPA—Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
Council—Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
CRM—Cultural Resources Manager
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
EO—Executive Order
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                  13


FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulations
FR—Federal Register
HQ USAF A4—Headquarters, The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and
Mission Support
AF/A4C—Air Force Director of Civil Engineers
HQ AFCEC—Headquarters, Air Force Civil Engineer Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters, United States Air Force
ICRMP—Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan
IST—Installation Support Team
ITLO—Installation Tribal Liaison Officer
ITRP—Installation Tribal Relations Plan
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAGPRA—Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1991
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
NHPA—National Historic Preservation Act of 1966
POC—Point of Contact
SAF/GCN—Air Force General Counsel, Installations, Energy and Environmental Law
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and Energy
SAF/IEE—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety and
Infrastructure
SHPO—State Historic Preservation Officer
SME—Subject Matter Expert
THPO—Tribal Historic Preservation Officer
USC—United States Code

Terms
NOTE: The purpose of this glossary is to help the reader understand the terms used in this
publication. It does not encompass all pertinent terms. Terms defined below are also
contained in AFI 32—7065, Cultural Resources Management Program.
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Council or ACHP)— The independent federal
agency charged by the NHPA, as amended to advise the President, Congress, and federal
agencies on matters related to historic preservation. The Council also administers and
implements the Section 106 consultation process of the NHPA through Title 36 CFR Part 800,
Protection of Historic Properties. 12 December 2000
Archaeological Resources—Any material remains of past human life or activities that are
capable of providing scientific or humanistic understandings of past human behavior and cultural
 14                                                           AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


adaptation through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques such as controlled
observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and
explanation (see ARPA and 32 CFR Part229.3).
Area of Potential Effect (APE)—The land area an undertaking has the potential to affect. The
APE includes the footprint of the proposed project, and areas around the footprint that might be
affected by visual, auditory, erosional, and other direct and indirect results of the undertaking.
Comprehensive Agreement (CA)—An agreement between a federal agency and an Indian
Tribe affiliated with NAGPRA remains or cultural objects, concerning all agency land
management activities that could result in the intentional excavation or inadvertent discovery of
Native American human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects, or objects of cultural
patrimony. The CA should establish procedures for consultation, treatment, and disposition of
NAGPRA remains or cultural objects likely to be found during any undertaking or action on
agency lands [per Title 43 CFR Part10.5(f), NAGPRA, Consultations, 1 October 2008]. The
signed agreement, or correspondence related to efforts to reach agreement, constitute proof of
consultation. A Contingency Plan of Action is similar to a CA, but deals only with NAGPRA
remains and objects likely to be discovered during a specific undertaking or action. Tribal and
agency officials (e.g., the installation commander) must sign CAs, but only the agency official
signs Plans of Action [per Title 43 CFR Part 10.5(e)].
Consulting Parties—In accordance with Title 36 CFR Part 800.2(c), SHPOs (and THPOs acting
in lieu of SHPOs on matters affecting tribal lands), Indian Tribal governments, and the ACHP
(when it chooses to participate) have consulting roles in the NHPA Section 106 process. Optional
participants include representatives of local governments; applicants for federal assistance,
permits, licenses, and other approvals; and members of the public with interests in the
undertaking.
Curation—The process of managing and preserving an archaeological collection of artifacts and
records according to professional museum and archival practices, as defined in Title 36 CFR
Part79, National Park Service. Refer to Legacy Resource Management Program Office, Legacy
Project No. 98-1714, Guidelines for the Field Collection of Archaeological Materials and
Standard Operating Procedures for Curating Department of Defense Archaeological
Collections," available through the DENIX and AFCEC websites.
Installation Tribal Relations Plan (ITRP)— The ITRP outlines the approach installations will
use to establish long-term relationships between the Air Force, specific to a given installation’s
mission, and tribes. This AFI gives flexibility to installations to develop their own ITRP for
building and maintaining tribal relationships. The Government-to-Government Desk Guide for
Native American & Alaska Native Tribal Governments and the U.S. Department of Defense
published in 2007 includes information, in Section III, on a tool which can be used as a template
for the ITRP and working on a government-to-government basis with the tribes. At a minimum,
the ITRP should include (1) how the installation plans to reach out to identified federally-
recognized tribes with historic or cultural affiliation to installation lands; (2) specific details on
how the installation plans to address areas of concern for tribes; (3) how the installations plans to
maintain tribal relationships between regularly scheduled twice-yearly face-to-face meetings; (4)
a standard process for consultation whenever issues arise between the tribe(s) and the
installations; and (5) a list of current tribal government points of contact.
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                  15


Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan (ICRMP)—A document prepared by each
DoD installation that describes how it defines the procedures and outlines plans for managing
cultural resources on that installation. ICRMPs must contain the information required by DoDI
4715.16, Enclosure 6.
State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO)—The official appointed by the Governor of each
State and territory to carry out the functions defined in the NHPA, and to administer the State
Historic Preservation Program. SHPOs provide advice and assistance to federal agencies
regarding their Cultural Resources Management programs and historic preservation
responsibilities. Throughout this AFI, SHPO is understood to mean THPO where consulting a
designated THPO is appropriate.
Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (THPO)—The official appointed by an Indian Tribe in
accordance with the NHPA to administer the Tribal Historic Preservation Program and assume
duties and functions for tribal lands similar to those that the SHPO has for State lands. The
Secretary of Interior designates tribes with THPO responsibilities. Air Force installations must
consult with the THPO, instead of the SHPO, on undertakings on or over Indian tribal lands
where a Tribe has been granted THPO responsibilities by the Secretary of the Interior.
 16                                                             AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014


                                            Attachment 2
                               INSTALLATION COMMANDER’S

ANNUAL REPORT ON TRIBAL RELATIONS



SECTION 1: INSTALLATION TRIBAL RELATIONS PLAN

1a. Does the installation have an Installation Tribal Relations Plan (ITRP)? Yes/No
       If yes, is this an alternate ITRP? Yes/No
       If no ITRP, please provide explanation.

1b. Has the ITRP been updated in the last 6 months? Yes/No
       If yes, highlight any major changes from the previous ITRP.
       If no, please provide the date of the last update.

1c. Has the installation designated an Installation Tribal Liaison Officer (ITLO)? Yes/No
       If yes, please provide the ITLO contact information (Name, Rank/Civilian, Phone,
       Email).
       If no, please provide explanation.


SECTION 2: GENERAL INFORMATION

2a. Has the installation identified any tribes with historic or cultural affiliation with lands
controlled, used, or overflown by the AF? Yes/No
        If yes, please provide the number of tribes identified.
        If no, please provide an explanation as to why no tribes have been identified.

2b. Has the installation identified any other tribal interests related to installation activities within
the last year? Yes/No
         If yes, please identify the relevant tribes and the nature of their interests.

2c. Did the installation identify any new tribes within the last year? Yes/No
       If yes, please provide additional information on the tribe (i.e., Name of Tribe, Address,
       Tribal Point of Contact Name, Phone Number)

2d. Does the installation have a map of its airspace and activity areas in relation to tribal lands or
tribal use areas? Yes/No
        If yes, when was the map last updated?
        If no, please provide an explanation.


SECTION 3: CORRESPONDENCE
AFI90-2002 19 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                            17


3a. Did the installation commander (or designated O-6 representative) conduct meetings with
tribal leaders during the past year? Yes/No
         If yes, how many meetings were conducted?

3b. Did the installation meet with all identified tribes at least twice face-to-face during the past
year? Yes/No
       If no, please provide an explanation.


SECTION 4: AGREEMENTS

4a. Did the installation sign any new cooperative agreements, MOUs, MOAs, CAs, or PAs
during the past year? Yes/No
        If yes, please provide additional information (i.e., Date Signed, Title/Subject,
        Representatives) including a copy of any agreements.


SECTION 5: TRAINING

5a. Did the installation provide training on-base to personnel specific to tribal relations? Yes/No
       If yes,
       How many individuals attended training?
       How many hours did each individual spend training?

5b. Did any installation personnel attend outside training specific to tribal relations? Yes/No
       If yes,
       How many individuals attended training?
       How many hours did each individual spend training?

5c. Did the installation provide training to tribal members? Yes/No
       If yes, please provide information on the type of training provided and how many tribal
       members attended training.


SECTION 6: FEEDBACK

6a. Based on your experiences with the AF tribal relations program to date, what is working well,
what needs improvement, and/or what needs to be addressed?
