BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-1601
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                     22 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                               AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                        Supplement
                                                                              26 APRIL 2011

                                                                       Special Management

                                                        AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFI is availiable for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A9L                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A9
                                                              (Dr. Jacqueline R. Henningsen)
Supersedes:   AFI 90-1601, Air Force                                               Pages: 31
              Lessons Learned Program
              dated 26 June 2008.
                                         (AFGSC)
OPR: HQ AFGSC/A9L                                             Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A9L
                                                                     (Major Janine Wiggins)
Supersedes:   AFI90-1601_AFGSCCSUP1,                                                Pages:8
              1 December 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-16, Air Force Studies,
Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned. It provides guidance for the Air Force Lessons
Learned Program (AFL2P) to include developing standards for major activities under the Air
Force Lessons Process (AFLP). It covers all activities associated with lessons learned (L2)
support for operations, exercise and wargame after action reports (AARs) as well as other L2
activities. This instruction guides AF positions to the Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP)
and the joint community on L2 matters. This instruction applies to all Air Force military,
civilian and contractor personnel, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Command. This AFI may be supplemented by Air Force MAJCOMs or other subordinate levels,
but must be coordinated with AF/A9L prior to approval. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of
 2                                                                    AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/ afrims/afrims/afrims.

(AFGSC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI)
90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010. It describes AFGSC‟s
lessons learned procedures for use in conjunction with the basic AFI. This supplement
establishes guidance and procedures for AFGSC units to implement and execute the Air Force
Lessons Learned Program. All AFGSC personnel must know the requirements of this instruction
and associated publications which pertain to their responsibilities. This supplement applies to
HQ AFGSC, its Numbered Air Forces (NAFs), their assigned wings, and AFGSC Direct
Reporting Units (DRUs). It also applies to individual reservists as well as activated/mobilized
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units gained to AFGSC.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional‟s chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision clarifies the roles and responsibilities in the lessons learned process (Chapter 2);
expands description of the lessons learned collection process (Chapter 3); provides a more
detailed lessons learned resolution process (Chapter 6); expands the roles and responsibilities for
the AFL2P Training program (paragraphs 8.2. thru 8.3.); clarifies after action reporting and
information in the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS, Chapter 9);
incorporates procedures for the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group
(Attachment 1); adds an After Action Report (AAR) Template (Attachment 4).

(AFGSC) This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely
reviewed.

       1.      PURPOSE. .............................................................................................................    3
Figure 1.      1 Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP). ....................................................................                  3
       2.      ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                          4
       3.      COLLECTION. .....................................................................................................         8
       4.      VALIDATION. ......................................................................................................       11
       5.      DISSEMINATION. ...............................................................................................           12
       6.      RESOLUTION. .....................................................................................................        13
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                                                         3


      7.      JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP). ............................................                             15
      8.      AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING. ...........                                                15
      9.      JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS). ..................                                           16
      10.     FORMS ADOPTED. .............................................................................................   20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                               22

Attachment 2—AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING GROUP
             (AF L2 GOSG) CHARTER                                     26

Attachment 3—OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE                                                                          28

Attachment 4—AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE                                                                                    29

Attachment 5—(Added-AFGSC) AFGSC LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM                                                                     30


1. PURPOSE.
   1.1. Purpose. The AFL2P exists to enhance readiness and improve combat capability by
   capitalizing on the experiences of Airmen. A Lesson Learned (L2) is an Observation that,
   when validated and resolved, results in an improvement in military operations or activities at
   the strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
   individual or an organization. Coupling L2 with past experiences should also assist senior
   leaders in programming, budgeting and allocating resources as well as making changes to
   doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership & education, personnel, facilities and
   policy (DOTMLPF&P). An L2 finding is not a compliance “report card” nor is it
   automatically accepted and implemented without the scrutiny of functional experts. An L2 is
   also not “owned” by any one organization. Rather, the mandate for all organizations
   participating in the AFL2P is to coordinate activities and collaboratively exchange
   Observations and Lessons Identified for the benefit of the total Air Force mission.
   1.2. Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP).
      1.2.1. The role of the AFLP is to facilitate the learning of Lessons identified across the
      Air Force. The AFLP has four fundamental components: Collection, Validation,
      Dissemination and Resolution. Figure 1.1 depicts the AFLP.

Figure 1. 1 Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP).
      1.2.2. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
      Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they
      can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning
      culture, every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
      1.2.3. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational expert to
      confirm an Observation has identifiable lessons to be processed through the AFLP. Once
      validated, an Observation is a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g., capability,
      concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
4                                                AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


       Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
       community.
       1.2.4. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for action,
       along with making lessons available for wider use. The aim of dissemination is to get
       lessons to decision makers and Airmen in time for them to make more informed
       decisions.
       1.2.5. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are addressed to ensure they become Lessons
       Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for action
       (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked to
       closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of
       a validated Observation.
       1.2.6. Each L2 office will establish procedures to monitor the status of Lessons
       Identified and actions taken by Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPRs). The
       monitoring office will ensure periodic updates are annotated in JLLIS. Until
       DOTMLPF&P changes from a Lesson Identified are implemented and become a Lesson
       Learned, OPRs and L2 offices should observe corrective actions and be vigilant for
       similar repeat Observations.
       1.2.7. The L2 process is not intended to bypass the chain of command. A structured
       process is in place to review Observations by appropriate JLLIS Tier Managers and
       functional subject matter experts (SMEs).
       1.2.8. Due to their different mission and responsibilities, L2 functions will not be
       combined in the same office with Historians (HO) and/or Inspector General (IG) and/or
       standardization and evaluation (stan/eval) functions. Whereas the IG and stan/eval
       functions are tasked to provide an objective “report card” on organizational compliance,
       L2 functions are collaborative partnerships to capture and share lessons. For similar
       reasons, the L2 program will not be combined with the Safety function at any echelon.
       However, Lessons Identified in both IG and Safety functions should, when possible, be
       sent to the AF L2 Community. In addition, the History function will not be combined
       with the L2 program as historical documentation encompasses operational, maintenance,
       agile combat support and various other command functions. Common source data
       (interviews, AARs, etc.) should be shared between the L2 and HO communities.
       1.2.9. In accordance with CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP),
       JLLIS is the system of record for the Department of Defense and the JLLP. As such,
       Observations and Lessons Identified will ultimately reside in the JLLIS database to the
       maximum extent feasible. To ensure maximum sharing of L2s, JLLIS must be the
       primary vehicle used to implement the AFLP.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. HQ USAF/A9.
       2.1.1. The Director of Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9):
          2.1.1.1. Oversees the AFL2P and AF participation in the JLLP.
          2.1.1.2. Serves as the chief L2 advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief
          of Staff of the Air Force.
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                        5


        2.1.1.3. Ensures the AFL2P meets the goals of USAF leadership and the needs of
        Airmen and commanders at all levels.
        2.1.1.4. Upon CSAF approval, manages annual CSAF vector-aligned Lessons
        Learned Focus Areas for collection.
        2.1.1.5. Requests each SAF/HAF 2-letter office identify a POC for the AFL2P and
        address their Observations through the AFLP.
     2.1.2. The Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned (AF/A9L):
        2.1.2.1. Provides guidance for the AFLP to include developing standards for major
        activities under the AFL2P.
        2.1.2.2. Serves as the OPR for the AFL2P.
        2.1.2.3. Establishes processes to support guidance contained in this instruction.
        2.1.2.4. Oversees training and development of members of the Air Force lessons
        learned community.
        2.1.2.5. Ensures ready access to these processes and information through JLLIS.
        2.1.2.6. Assists Air Force organizations in performing L2 activities as required.
        2.1.2.7. Manages the Air Force portion of JLLP online database for collecting,
        storing, tracking and displaying L2 information. Works to maximize joint and multi-
        service sharing of L2 information.
        2.1.2.8. Oversees the AFL2P and JLLIS training program.
        2.1.2.9. Addresses Lessons Identified forwarded by subordinate L2 organizations or
        Observations submitted by the Headquarters Air Force staff.
        2.1.2.10. Tracks AF-level Lessons Identified through       resolution and assists
        information crossflow between OPRs and offices of collateral responsibility (OCRs)
        working their implementation.
        2.1.2.11. Provides AFL2P inputs to HQ USAF corporate processes. Provides the AF
        position to the JLLP and advises the joint community on lessons learned matters.
        2.1.2.12. Collects USAF headquarters-level Lessons Identified from exercises, and
        contingency operations in which the AF Crisis Action Team (AFCAT) participates.
        2.1.2.13. Maintains trained and ready personnel for the AFCAT L2 position.
        2.1.2.14. Accomplishes L2 studies and collection activities, in cooperation with the
        AF History Program research and collection efforts, on specific topics/events as
        directed by senior USAF leadership. Annually implements the CSAF Focus Area
        lesson learned collection plan.
        2.1.2.15. Integrates L2 with the Joint Staff, other service and non-DoD government
        agencies. Integrates L2 activities and processes across the total force to synchronize
        collections and disseminate information quickly.
6                                              AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


         2.1.2.16. Analyzes L2 content produced by other members of the L2 community,
         other government organizations and research agencies to extract lessons applicable to
         AF operations not previously reported and/or acted upon.
         2.1.2.17. Reviews AARs and any collection reports to extract and act upon any
         Lessons Identified not previously reported and or acted upon.
         2.1.2.18. Coordinates L2 studies that have operational and basic doctrine
         implications with the LeMay Center.
    2.2. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs.
      2.2.1. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs will designate an organization as lead for L2
      activities, normally designated as A9L. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may designate that
      a subordinate NAF or Center perform all or part of MAJCOM, FOA or DRU-level L2
      functions in accordance with their respective supplement to this AFI.
      2.2.1. (AFGSC) The AFGSC/CC has designated AFGSC/A9L as the lead lessons
      learned organization for HQ AFGSC.
      2.2.2. The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 organization will:
         2.2.2.1. Serve as OPR for the L2 program.
         2.2.2.2. Ensure L2 collection processes are established implemented. Ensure AARs
         are submitted and Lessons Identified are addressed for major operations,
         contingencies, key exercises, experiments and other significant events and topics
         identified by leadership.
            2.2.2.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) The following lessons learned review construct will
            facilitate the validation and sharing of lessons identified/learned assigned to
            AFGSC. Lessons will be discussed and resolved at the lowest appropriate level.
            Further details of AFGSC/A9L operation are provided in Attachment 5.
                2.2.2.2.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) Each AFGSC NAF will appoint an L2 POC
                who will perform Tier-2 functions within the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned
                Information System (JLLIS) database, as well as review and validate lessons
                identified/learned best solved at NAF level. This allows the NAFs maximum
                use of JLLIS and other L2 tool to internally work NAF lessons learned, and
                provides a framework to engage the MAJCOM should an issue require higher
                level attention. NAF L2 POCs will maintain a continued effort to resolve
                each lesson identified/learned, and elevate to AFGSC/A9L any lessons
                identified with cross-MAJCOM implications or that are beyond the scope of
                the NAF‟s authority to address. The L2 POC will also aid AFGSC/A9L in
                planning lessons learned events (e.g., collections) affecting the NAF, and will
                ensure AARs of significant events (e.g., exercises, major operations,
                contingencies) are forwarded to AFGSC/A9L in a timely manner.
                2.2.2.2.1.2. (Added-AFGSC) Each AFGSC Wing will appoint an L2 POC
                (e.g., wing XP) who will perform Tier-2 functions within the JLLIS database,
                as well as review and validate lessons identified/learned best solved at wing
                level. This allows the Wings maximum use of JLLIS and other L2 tool to
                internally work NAF lessons learned, and provides a framework to engage the
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                          7


               MAJCOM should an issue require higher level attention. Wing L2 POCs will
               maintain a continued effort to resolve each lesson identified/learned, and
               elevate to the appropriate level (NAF or AFGSC/A9L) any lessons identified
               with cross-NAF/MAJCOM implications or that are beyond the scope of the
               Wing‟s authority to address. The L2 POC will also aid AFGSC/A9L in
               planning lessons learned events (e.g., collections) affecting the Wing, and will
               ensure AARs of significant events (e.g., exercises, major operations,
               contingencies) are forwarded to AFGSC/A9L in a timely manner.
        2.2.2.3. Enter Observations and AARs into JLLIS NLT 30 days after the event.
        2.2.2.4. Establish a process to validate Observations and share Lessons Identified.
        2.2.2.5. Share L2 products Lessons Identified with other MAJCOMs, NAFs and
        lower echelons through the AFL2P .
        2.2.2.6. Elevate to AF/A9L any Lessons Identified with cross-AF implications or that
        are beyond the scope of the organization‟s authority to address.
        2.2.2.7. When designated as the Air Force Component to a Unified Combatant
        Command (UCC), participate in both the AFL2P and in the UCC‟s L2 process (as the
        air component). These roles overlap as AF organizations may have an interest in
        operational lessons originating in other AORs and the UCC may have an interest in
        AF initiatives that can improve operations in that theater.
        2.2.2.8. Facilitate the expedient up-channeling of AARs and Lessons Identified
        through the AFL2P and the UCC L2 process as appropriate.
        2.2.2.9. Represent their organization‟s participation in or provide input to AF/A9L
        for L2 activities.
        2.2.2.10. Participate with HAF, MAJCOM, Joint and Interagency L2 activities.
        2.2.2.11. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A-Staff and special staff planning teams
        to incorporate applicable lessons to support the full spectrum of military operations.
        2.2.2.12. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU teams across all functional areas to
        coordinate policy, tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP) and operational strategy,
        and with the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education to coordinate
        doctrine development.
        2.2.2.13. Provide Fiscal Year plans and schedules to AF/A9L for publication by
        1 Sep each year, and provide updates as they are available.
        2.2.2.14. (Added-AFGSC) Use the following meeting construct to provide a means
        for senior leadership to discuss operational and strategic level lessons and to shape
        MAJCOM L2 activities.
           2.2.2.14.1. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC Lessons Learned (L2) Working Group
           (AL2WG). The AL2WG will be established by AFGSC/A9L to address each
           active observation entered into the JLLIS database. The working group (WG)
           will consist of an AFGSC/A9L representative, and a Subject Matter Expert
           (SME), Command Lead, or AFGSC Directorate point of contact (POC) for each
           topic area represented by an active observation who will review and validate
8                                                AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


              lessons identified/learned for their area of expertise and maintain a continued
              effort to resolve each lesson identified/learned. Separate L2WGs may be
              established to address large numbers of related observations or to address a single
              focus area as needed. The AL2WG(s) will meet as necessary until the lesson is
              resolved. The AL2WG will provide AFGSC/A9L with lesson status updates as
              required by AFGSC/A9L for status reporting.
              2.2.2.14.2. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC Lessons Learned (L2) Oversight Board
              (AL2OB). The AL2OB is a Division Chief-level review board composed of
              representatives from HQ Directorates and the NAFs. AFGSC/A9L chairs this
              quarterly meeting to review/resolve lessons identified/learned that have been
              assigned to AFGSC at all levels of classification. Attending members must have
              authority to accept/decline OPR designation for the directorate or organization
              and have the authority to make recommendation on status changes for their
              lessons (open to close, put on hold, etc.). The AL2OB collects, analyzes, and
              works solutions to functional lessons with cross-functional ramifications and/or
              requiring involvement of a higher authority for consideration/resolution or
              requiring resolution outside AFGSC. Meeting agenda items will include new
              lessons assigned to AFGSC and the status of active lessons to include those that
              have been closed or transferred to another organization.
              2.2.2.14.3. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC Lessons Learned (L2) Steering Group
              (AL2SG). The AL2SG is a Director-level board that will receive status updates
              (briefing, point paper, etc.) as required, but at a minimum, will convene each year
              just prior to the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group
              (AFL2GOSG). The AFL2GOSG is described in Attachment 2 of this AFI. The
              AL2SG is composed of the AFGSC/CV (Chair), AFGSC Directors and NAF/CCs
              (or NAF designees). The purpose of the Steering Group is to review the status of
              all active lessons assigned to AFGSC and make recommendations for status
              changes as appropriate. AFGSC/A9L will use the information gathered from the
              working groups, oversight boards and steering groups to prepare the AFGSC/CV
              for the AFL2GOSG. AFGSC L2 meeting schedules will be aligned with the
              AFL2GOSG as much as possible. AFGSC/A9L acts as recorder and executive
              secretary. This Steering Group will provide senior leadership oversight at all
              levels of classification of the AFGSC L2 Program as set forth in this AFI and
              other applicable directives.
    2.3. All Airmen.
       2.3.1. All Airmen are encouraged to enter Observations that contain potential lessons
       into JLLIS for coordination through the AFLP and/or inform the local chain of command
       as appropriate.
       2.3.2. Individuals or organizations lacking access to the JLLIS website may use AF IMT
       Forms 4329 and 4330 (Attachments 3 and 4) to record their Observations and e-mail
       them directly to the appropriate NAF, MAJCOM, or HQ USAF-level L2 office. Both
       forms are avaliable online at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
3. COLLECTION.
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                          9


  3.1. Purpose. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
  Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they can be
  “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning culture,
  every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
  3.2. Types of Collections.
     3.2.1. After action collection to capture important events. Reconstructs specific events or
     combat operations after the fact to gain a better understanding of the event‟s successes
     and challenges. AFLP allows an organization to capture historical events and share
     lessons gained from participants‟ knowledge and experience, even though the Lessons
     Identified may already be resolved and no further actions are required. This can be done
     in partnership with historians but is not intended to duplicate their work.
     3.2.2. Event collection. Captures the facts and participant Observations regarding a
     combat or non-combat event as it occurs. The collection can occur at the strategic,
     operational, and/or tactical level. Examples include exercises, such as RED FLAG, or
     contingencies, such as Hurricane Katrina or Operation UNIFIED ASSISTANCE. Event
     collections may be accomplished two ways:
         3.2.2.1. Participative collection. The L2 staff performs two roles during the event.
         First, they participate in the unit‟s operational battle rhythm, attend staff meetings,
         man the Crisis Action Team and/or provide real-time inputs to the commander‟s
         planning and decision process. Second, the staff forms teams to collect data at the
         tactical, operational and/or strategic levels. Large-scale operations, such as disaster
         relief operations, might involve teams from HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, NAFs, other
         Services and UCCs collecting data either independently or in concert based on goals.
         3.2.2.2. Observational collection. An L2 team records the organizational structures,
         processes and resources used to accomplish an infrequent, noncombat event so that
         tacit knowledge gained during the event can be explicitly documented, stored and
         retrieved for later use during similar events (e.g., Quadrennial Defense Review
         [QDR] Process).
     3.2.3. Topical collection. This collection focuses on a specific subject or cyclic process
     (e.g., surveys, Focus Areas, etal) based on an L2 organization‟s desire to further examine
     or collect information about a certain topic.
     3.2.4. Observations and Lessons Identified through event collections and topical
     collections will be entered into JLLIS for validation, dissemination and resolution. JLLIS
     is the system of record for the AF L2 process and may be used by any Airman. JLLIS is
     the central repository for Observations, Lessons Identified, AARs and other L2 reports.
  3.3. Techniques and Tools. L2 collections can employ the full range of techniques and
  tools, tailoring them to the specific situation. Techniques and tools include direct
  observation, in-person interviews, commanders‟ exit interviews, surveys, database
  submissions by participants, AARs, data and database mining and document capturing.
  Sharing of data between L2 professionals, historians and other learning organizations is
  highly encouraged to coordinate on collection dissemination, especially via the JLLIS online
  database.
10                                              AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


  3.4. General L2 Collection Approach.
     3.4.1. When possible, collections should be coordinated in advance with involvement of
     trained L2 staff. Collections on many important events (warfare, contingencies, etc.) are
     often conducted with little or no notice. Individuals must be trained on collection
     techniques and prepared to apply them at any time.
     3.4.2. Where possible, an L2 collection within an organization‟s Area of Responsibility
     (AOR) should be augmented as required by other L2 offices and SMEs. For most
     collections, SMEs and functional area experts are better suited to observe and document
     employment of their respective processes.
     3.4.3. The L2 office (at any level) will normally lead collection efforts. AF/A9L
     participation with other L2 organizations in CSAF-directed/multi-service/joint collections
     permits better access senior leadership and documents broader perspectives.
  3.5. Observation Submission Procedures.
     3.5.1. AFLP procedures standardize Observation submission and management at all AF
     echelons. Observation submission procedures consist of collecting Observations of
     events and operations, reviewing and entering them in JLLIS. Lower echelons will
     address Observations at their level and forward those beyond their scope to the
     appropriate level.
     3.5.2. Observation submission procedures apply to all units either conducting their day-
     to-day mission or participating in real world operations and/or exercises (e.g., combat
     operations, humanitarian operations, base closures, peacekeeping operations,
     noncombatant evacuations, exercises, etc.).
     3.5.3. Observations should flow from the reporting individual and agency to the
     reviewing office or functional expert and, if required, to the next-level L2 office.
  3.6. After Action Report (AAR) Reporting.
     3.6.1. After Action reports (AARs) are intended to help Airmen fight a smarter, more
     capable fight. The next Airmen to deploy, to participate in that exercise, to train for that
     type contingency, etc., should benefit from reports submitted by those who have gone
     before. Timely submission of AARs (and the individual Observations which comprise
     them) are a command responsibility. Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF)
     commanders, commanders of subordinate AETF units, exercise/experiment directors, and
     other like commanders/directors are expected to submit a unit-level AAR for the event
     (deployment, contingency, exercise, etc.) for which they are responsible. AARs are
     posted in JLLIS and accessable to all registered users.
     3.6.2. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in military
     operations at the strategic, operational, or tactical level. AAR Observations should
     describe how the mission could be/was improved, potential risks to mission degradation
     and how to mitigate those risks. AARs are intended to be more than a summary or rollup
     of unit/tactical actions. Commanders/directors are not required to hold Observations until
     the end of an operation, exercise or AEF cycle to be included in an AAR. Whenever
     possible, AARs should be submitted as soon as practical to permit timely action.
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                            11


     3.6.3. Units participating in operations as part of a continuous AEF cycle will submit
     AARs to their respective HHQ NLT than 45 days following the end of their deployment.
     AFFOR staff and AOC staff will also submit periodic AARs for continuous AEF
     operations (e.g., OEF). Individual Observations deserving urgent attention should not be
     delayed for inclusion in the next AAR but should be forwarded up the chain of command
     as soon as sufficient information is gathered. The goal is to get the information to the
     next set of deployers and/or HHQ staff decision makers quickly for action/resolution.
     3.6.4. AARs for operations not supported by a continuing AEF cycle, contingencies and
     exercises will be submitted to HHQ NLT 30 days after the end of the event unless
     otherwise directed.
     3.6.5. Owning organizations will review AARs to pull Observations for processing
     through the AFLP and post AARs to JLLIS. Lessons Identified during the review will be
     entered in JLLIS and disseminated to the appropriate OPR for information and resolution.
4. VALIDATION.
  4.1. Purpose. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational experts
  to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed through the AFLP.
  Once validated, an Observation becomes a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g.,
  capability, concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
  Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
  community. Validation ensures accuracy, applicability, and completeness, and activates the
  Observation in JLLIS. The goal of the validation process is to get to root causes.
  4.1. (AFGSC) Purpose. AFGSC/A9L or a Tier-2 (NAF or Wing) L2 POC will review a
  JLLIS issue or observation and identify the point of contact (POC) or office of primary
  responsibility (OPR). AFGSC/A9L or appropriate Tier-2 L2 POC consults with the
  appointed POC or OPR, determines whether an issue or observation is valid, and determines
  if it applies to the command mission or other MAJCOMs. Validated lessons will be worked
  at the lowest applicable level by a functional manager, training staff officer, SME, NAF, or
  appropriate wing, but may enter the AL2WG or AL2OB process as needed.
  4.2. Validation Authority.
     4.2.1. The validation authority has a key role in the AFLP. Validation authorities will:
         4.2.1.1. Review Observations for accuracy, applicability and completeness. If
         Observations do not meet these criteria, validation authorities will contact the
         originator for futher clarification.
         4.2.1.1. (AFGSC) AFGSC/A9L will consult SMEs, Command Leads, and Directors
         to ensure accuracy, completeness, and applicability of collected observations.
         4.2.1.2. Determine if an Observation had previously been addressed. If the
         Observation duplicates previous Observations, it will be manually linked in JLLIS
         with the previous Observations.
         4.2.1.3. Determine the applicable guiding documents (e.g., statute, DoD or AF
         instruction).
         4.2.1.4. Parse Observations to determine DOTMLPF&P actionable areas.
12                                             AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


         4.2.1.5. Submit to the appropriate SME for evaluation. Once the SME confirms the
         Observation‟s validity, it is processed as a Lesson Identified. IG, stan/eval or QA
         offices will not be appointed as the evaluation agency.
         4.2.1.5. (AFGSC) Command Leads and Directors will provide SMEs for most
         global strike related issues. For non-global strike related issues, (e.g., personnel,
         security, police, services, etc.), AFGSC/A9L will identify the appropriate SME.
         4.2.1.6. Ensure Lessons Identified are returned to the originating JLLIS Tier-1
         Administrator and/or Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) for dissemination to
         issue resolution OPRs.
         4.2.1.7. Forward Lessons Identified intended for the HQ USAF staff through JLLIS
         to AF/A9L.
         4.2.1.8. Inform the chain of command as to status of Observations submitted to
         higher level L2 offices.
     4.2.2. Validation SMEs may be instructors, staff functionals, career field functional
     managers, commanders, senior AF leaders or L2 offices.
     4.2.3. Lessons Identified deemed as time-critical and/or mission-critical will be
     concurrently disseminated to other potentially interested organizations and individuals
     where mission impact may occur.
5. DISSEMINATION.
  5.1. Purpose. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
  action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to
  get lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
     5.1.1. Lessons may be disseminated through tasks, briefings, bulletins, reports or
     database entries.
     5.1.2. An OPR will be tasked to either resolve to closure Lessons Identified requiring
     DOTMLPF&P action/changes or ensure Lessons Identified requiring wider dissemination
     to a wider audience are appropriately promulgated.
     5.1.3. An OCR will be assigned as required by the originator of the lesson idenitifed or
     as required by the OPR.
  5.2. Dissemination Techniques.
     5.2.1. The guiding principle in executing a dissemination strategy is to get the right
     information to the right person at the right time. Dissemination of Lessons Identified to
     individuals or organizations may be solicited or unsolicited. Techniques for either type
     of dissemination encompass both „push‟ and „pull‟ methodologies.
         5.2.2.1. “Push” methodologies transmit lessons proactively to identified recipients.
         In this case, L2 specialists identify target audiences for dissemination. Examples of
         when to “push” Lessons Identified are when assisting planning staffs during emerging
         situations (contingencies, relief operations, etc.), assisting headquarters staffs with
         Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) decisions, and when
         sending completed L2 documents such as AARs to identified audiences via a
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                          13


         subscription service. Push solicited information when responding to a Request for
         Information (RFI). In this case, L2 specialists may push relevant lessons on the
         particular event or topic to the requesting party.
         5.2.2.2. “Pull” methodologies allow individuals to retrieve lessons by conducting
         JLLIS queries or by researching and retrieving published L2 reports and bulletins.
         (The “Daily Digest” feature in JLLIS is a “pull” resource.)
     5.2.3. Other dissemination processes may already exist within lower echelons or
     functional communities. Examples include the Tactics Review Board process and the
     Maintenance Quality Assurance flash process. Integration of Lessons Identified provides
     a mechanism to integrate the AFLP with lower echelon processes.
     5.2.4. Although dissemination activities may be conducted using different approaches,
     the basic process step of identifying action items must take place for each Lesson
     Identified before submittal to the resolution processes or inclusion in publications,
     reports, summaries, briefings and analyses.
6. RESOLUTION.
  6.1. Purpose. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are tracked to ensure they become a
  Lessons Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for
  action (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked
  to closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of a
  validated Observation.
     6.1.1. Resolution has three main objectives:
         6.1.1.1. Enhance the Air Force‟s and the joint community‟s ability to learn from the
         conduct of operations across the levels of warfare, training activities, exercise events
         and other activities.
         6.1.1.2. Enhance warfighting capabilities by documenting potential solutions across
         DOTMLPF&P approaches and implementation decisions.
         6.1.1.3. Support Air Force senior leaders as well as a broad range of subject specific
         stakeholders.
  6.2. Tracking Issue Resolution (TIR). TIR ensures Lessons Identified are worked to
  closure. TIR documentation establishes accountability for resolution, monitors resolution
  actions to closure, and provides a means of disseminating Lessons Identified.
     6.2.1. AF/A9L will:
         6.2.1.1. Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified between the HAF, Services, Joint
         Staff, UCCs and other government organizations.
         6.2.1.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of AF
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
         6.2.1.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for all HAF
         organizations.    Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
14                                              AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS MAJCOM Tier-1 Sites.
     6.2.2. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.2.1.      Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified among lower echelons and HQ
     USAF.
         6.2.2.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
                6.2.2.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) NAF and Wing L2 POCs will provide information,
                as required, to AFGSC/A9L to keep the status of lessons for their area of
                responsibility current.
                6.2.2.2.2. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC/A9L will provide quarterly status reports at
                the HQ AFGSC level to ensure AFGSC senior leaders are kept informed of the
                status of active lessons. AFGSC/A9L will ensure that information in JLLIS is
                updated with the most current information reported.
                6.2.2.2.3. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC/A9L will host monthly meetings with NAF
                and Wing L2 POCs via DCO, VTC, or available convenient format to facilitate
                tracking and coordination of observations and events.
                6.2.2.2.4. (Added-AFGSC) With assistance from NAF lessons learned POCs,
                AFGSC/A9L will ensure the inclusion of AFGSC lessons implemented in future
                exercises or similar events to confirm that the implemented changes were made
                and to verify expected outcomes.
         6.2.2.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS NAF/Wing/Center/FOA/DRU Tier-2 CLMs.
     6.2.3. NAF/Center L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.3.1. Maintain a cross-flow of Lessons Identified within their command/ functional
     community.
         6.2.3.2. In conjunction with SMEs, track the status of NAF/Center Lessons
         Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons with
         programmatic implications.
         6.2.3.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS Tier-2 CLMs.
  6.3. Closure of Lesson Actions. Lessons Identified that are entered into an organization‟s
  resolution process should be resolved at the lowest level. Actions for Lessons Identified may
  be closed when a solution has been implemented or a decision made to accept the risk of not
  implementing a solution. Closed Lessons Identified will be archived in JLLIS for future
  reference and their final action/determination will be disseminated and periodically reviewed.
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                         15


  6.3. (AFGSC) Closure of Lessons Actions. AFGSC/A9L will ensure completed AFGSC
  lessons identified are closed in JLLIS, archived for future reference, and periodically
  reviewed as part of a long term tracking process.
7. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP).
  7.1. Purpose. The JLLP is governed by CJCSI 3150.25, Joint Lessons Learned Program.
  In support of the JLLP, the Air Force Lessons Learned Program will:
     7.1.1. Provide and maintain JLLP support for Air Force-specific, tactical, operational
     and strategic level lessons.
     7.1.2. Interact with other stakeholders within the JLLP community on L2 matters.
     7.1.3. Submit Lessons Identified that affect the joint community or requiring joint
     resolution to the Joint Staff.
  7.2. Concept. AF/A9L will:
     7.2.1. Represent the Air Force to the Joint Staff and the JLLP community on JLLP
     matters except when the JLLP matter only applies to a specific UCC. Air Force matters
     only applying to a specific UCC will be represented by the AF component to that UCC.
     7.2.2. Provide personnel and technical expertise to document Lessons Identified, analyze
     causation and impact, train collection team SMEs and coordinate Air Force SME
     participation in JLLP activities.
     7.2.3. Track and coordinate joint Lessons Identified within the AFL2P.
  7.3. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) Integration. L2
  involvement and participation in the JLLP will include:
     7.3.1. Monitoring joint L2 products to include the JCIDS and Joint Staff Action
     Processing systems.
     7.3.2. Assisting HQ USAF MAJCOM offices with Joint L2 submissions and
     DOTMLPF&P Change Request (DCR) development, as required.
8. AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING.
  8.1. Purpose. The purpose of the AFL2P training is to ensure individuals assigned to L2
  offices or as collection team augmentees/SMEs receive appropriate L2 training to understand
  their role in the AFLP.
  8.2. AF Lessons Learned Program Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the
  AFL2P training program. Each L2 office will ensure its training program is up to date with
  material found on the AF Lessons Learned Program website: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf or
  http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf. AF/A9L will provide train-the-trainer services for all aspects
  of the AFL2P. Each L2 office will establish guidelines to maintain curreny for members
  supporting their L2 program.
  8.3. L2 Collection Team Training. L2 offices will provide collection team members
  training prior to L2 collection efforts. Training will include collection plan development,
  conduct of interviews, collection management tools (JLLIS, interview management tools,
  etc.), data gathering techniques, product development, and dissemination. L2 collection team
16                                            AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


  members and SMEs provide expertise required for a focused collection. The L2 collection
  team lead is responsible for coordinating training with the JLLIS Tier-1 Administrator or
  Tier-2 CLM.
  8.4. JLLIS Training. L2 offices will provide JLLIS training to their orgainzations and
  lower echlons. Local training will emphasize use of JLLIS for capturing and managing
  Observations and Lessons Identified.
9. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS).
  9.1. DoD system of record for JLLP. JLLIS is a web-based system that implements the
  requirements for the JLLP. JLLP provides transfer of knowledge within the DoD through the
  rapid distribution of Observations and recommendations, AARs, TTPs, topic papers,
  briefings and interviews.
  9.2. JLLIS. JLLIS allows Air Force personnel to search, submit and manage all Air Force
  Observations, lessons, AARs, L2 and other information up to SECRET. JLLIS is used to
  track and disseminate Lessons Identified throughout the Air Force and DoD. JLLIS provides
  L2 office management, data collection, data management and L2 information distribution.
  9.3. System Administration.
     9.3.1. AF/A9L is responsible for system administration of the AF JLLIS master site
     through coordination with Joint Staff/J7 and JLLIS programmers.
     9.3.2. The AF/A9 JLLIS Program Manager will update the JLLIS User Guide and
     checklists, maintain a standard training package on the JLLIS home page and update this
     instruction annually or when changes to the system and/or process occur.
  9.4. JLLIS Business Rules.
     9.4.1. The JLLIS community will abide by the CJCSI 3150.25, JLLIS Business Rules
     and the following guidelines in managing their JLLIS operations:
         9.4.1.1. A Tier-1 is at the HAF and MAJCOM level. All other organizations will be
         assigned as a Tier-2. A Lesson Manager is the manager of Observations and Lessons
         Identified at the Tier-1 and Tier-2 level. A SME is a person within a Directorate or
         Command possessing expertise on an Observation, finding, issue, or Lesson
         Identified.
         9.4.1.2. Validation Process. Tier-1 and Tier-2 Lesson Managers and SMEs will
         review all “Pending” lessons within their Tier. Once an Observation is deemed valid,
         the Tier-1 or Tier-2 Lesson Manager will activate the Observation as a Lesson
         Identified and transfer it to the appropriate OPR/OCR for review. Observations that
         require work within the Tier will be coordinated through the Tier-1/Tier-2 CLM or
         the appropriate OPR/OCR.
         9.4.1.3. Coordinating Observations Outside a Tier-1. Tier-1 Lesson Managers will
         work together toward resolving an Observation‟s ownership. If the OPR/OCR for an
         Observation belongs to another Tier-1, the owning Tier-1 Admin will contact the
         appropriate Tier-1 Admin for coordination before transferring. Once transferred, the
         accepting Tier-1 assumes responsibility for the Observation. If it is found that the
         OPR/OCR is incorrect, the process will begin again. If ownership cannot be resolved
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                       17


        at the Tier-1 level, AF/A9L will resolve ownership. All Lessons Identified will be
        worked through to resolution.
  9.5. Disputes between Tiers.
     9.5.1. As Lesson Managers receive Observations submitted by JLLIS users, there may be
     occasions where a Tier-2 is not appropriate to validate that Observation. In these cases,
     the Tier-2 Lesson Manager will transfer the Observation to their Tier-1 for reassignment.
     When doing this, include results of any coordination in the “comment” section of the
     Observation in JLLIS.
     9.5.2. When Observation reassignments between Tier-2 CLMs are disputed, the issue
     should be brought to the attention of the MAJCOM L2 Director to render a recommended
     assignment. If the dispute continues, the MAJCOM L2 Director will present it to
     AF/A9L for L2 GOSG review and coordination. The L2 GOSG is chaired by the
     AF/CVA. The AF/CVA will serve as final arbiter of disputed Observations assignments
     if necessary.
  9.6. JLLIS Maintenance.
     9.6.1. Tier Maintenance. All Tier-1 Administrators should perform periodic Tier
     maintenance. Maintenance includes reviewing the status of “Active” Observations. Any
     Observations that have not been worked in more than 30 days should be reviewed and
     readdressed by the Tier-1 or Tier-2 CLM through the OPR/OCR for resolution, closure or
     removal from the database.
        9.6.1.1. Observations that should be removed include the following: “Test
        Observations,” Observations that are incomplete or unfocused, complaints or personal
        attacks.
        9.6.1.2. Test Binders and AARs should also be removed periodically to keep the Tier
        free of unnecessary information.
     9.6.2. MAJCOMs or NAFs that are an air component to a UCC may be asked by the
     UCC to participate in the UCC L2 program. Component MAJCOMs and NAFs will
     participate in their UCC‟s L2 program as directed by UCC policy and are authorized to
     coordinate Observations directly with their responsible UCC. Coordination may be
     conducted by emailing the Observation to the UCC JLLIS Administrator or by entering
     the Observation on the UCC JLLIS site.
     9.6.3. MAJCOMs not a component of a UCC will forward Observations requiring Joint,
     DoD Agency or UCC coordination to the HAF Tier-1 or the appropriate MAJCOM/C-
     NAF. The HAF Tier-1 Administrator will notify the responsible action officer/SME who
     will review and validate the Observation with their Joint, Agency or UCC point of
     contact and assume responsibility for tracking the Observation through to resolution.
     9.6.4. JLLIS website status updates are the responsibility of the AF/A9L action
     officer. Updates are available upon request through the responsible AF/A9L action
     officer.
  9.7. JLLIS Configuration Review Board (CRB).
18                                             AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


     9.7.1. The JLLIS CRB will be held semiannually as part of the AF L2 Community
     Conference. The AF CRB will be scheduled to allow sufficient time to address AF
     requirements prior to the Joint CRB.
     9.7.2. The Board will review action items from the previous Board, configuration issues,
     modifications and business rules. Each Tier-1 Administrator will have an opportunity to
     provide input during the Air Force JLLIS CRB. New JLLIS technologies will also be
     reviewed during the Technical Sessions of the Air Force L2 Community Conference.
     9.7.3. The Air Force JLLIS CRB is chaired by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
     Tier-1 Administrators and the Recorder are voting members of the CRB. Members of the
     Joint Staff/J7 have a standing invitation to attend. This courtesy is also extended to the
     other members of the Air Force JLLIS and L2 community.
     9.7.4. Each Tier-1 Administrator is responsible to collect input(s) from their respective
     Tier-2s for the Air Force CRB prior to the conference. The purpose is to provide an
     opportunity for Administrators to speak/vote for the actions that affect their Tier. The
     Tier-2 CLMs are not voting members of the Air Force CRB. In the event of a tie during
     the voting process, the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager will cast the deciding vote.
     9.7.5. All Air Force CRB items that impact the other JLLIS master sites must go before
     the Joint Staff/J7 and the Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference (WJTSC)
     CRB for review and approval. The AF JLLIS Program Manager will represent the Air
     Force during the WJTSC on all Air Force JLLIS related issues. Results from the WJTSC
     will be shared and reviewed by the JLLIS L2 community.
  9.8. Network Security.
     9.8.1. Joint Staff/J7 policy and guidance for NIPRNET JLLIS only allows access to
     Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States (ACGU) personnel and Foreign
     Exchange Officers / LNOs sponsored and/or assigned to DoD organizations. United
     States Government has a National Disclosure Policy for SIPRNET. The following
     information is in accordance with Joint Staff/J7 guidance pending release of formal DoD
     guidance for JLLIS:
        9.8.1.1. JLLIS information is considered For Official Use Only (FOUO). If there is a
        requirement to convert/migrate FOUO data to a DoD-wide system of Controlled
        Unclassified Information (CUI), the FOUO marking of JLLIS products will help
        prevent commercial access but allow access to those with valid requirements and
        registration (soft certs).
        9.8.1.2. DoD Instruction 8110.1, Multinational Information Sharing Networks
        Implementation, February 6, 2004 implements policy and designates the MNIS
        Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System (MNIS CENTRIXS) as
        the DoD standard for multinational information sharing networks using the Global
        Information Grid (GIG).
     9.8.2. ACGU personnel assigned to or sponsored by a DoD organization and issued a
     Common Access Card (CAC) permitting access to the DoD computer network/system are
     authorized access to JLLIS. These members are authorized to register in JLLIS as
     members of their assigned and sponsoring DoD organization.
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                      19


        9.8.2.1. Registration is validated and controlled through the organizations‟ security
        office and approved by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.8.2.2. ACGU personnel who are validated and authorized access to the US DoD
        SIPRNET are authorized access to JLLIS on SIPRNET. (i.e., DoDD 8500.01,
        Information Assurance, paragraph 4.8. - 4.9.1)
     9.8.3. AF/A9L guidance concerning loading, access, and release of JLLIS information
     for both sites is IAW Air Force and Joint Staff Network Security Guidance. SIPRNET:
     http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf and NIPRNET: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf. For any
     questions or concerns please contact the JLLIS Program Manager,
     afa9jllis@pentagon.af.mil.
  9.9. JLLIS Tier-1 Administrators and Tier-2 Command Lesson Managers.
     9.9.1. Tier-1 Administrators will:
        9.9.1.1. Be appointed by the MAJCOM L2 Director and the names sent forward to
        the AF/A9L JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.9.1.2. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., permission upgrade requests and system
        malfuncations and modifcation recommendations) to the Air Force JLLIS Program
        Manager for coordination, review and resolution.
        9.9.1.3. Have one vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
        9.9.1.4. Establish and certify Tier-2 CLMs.
        9.9.1.5. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
        teams, Tier-2 Lesson Managers or other authorized users.
        9.9.1.6. Send name, contact information and graphics for the Tier-2 CLM, to the AF-
        JLLIS Program Manager (AF/A9L) for review, approval and implementation. A
        Tier-2 site cannot be authorized in JLLIS without approval of the applicable Tier-1
        Administrator.
        9.9.1.7. Provide JLLIS and collection guidance for all Tier-2 CLMs assigned within
        the HAF/MAJCOM Tier-1.
        9.9.1.8. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
        (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
        9.9.1.9. At a minimum, conduct Tier maintenance as required to maintain currency.
        Guidelines for Observation and Tier maintenance should be developed locally based
        on the needs of the command and mission requirements.
     9.9.2. Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) will:
        9.9.2.1. Consist of a primary and alternate           to   be   appointed   by   the
        Commander/Director to manage the Tier-2.
        9.9.2.2. Be identified by their MAJCOM/A9 Tier-1 Administrator to the AF/A9L
        JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.9.2.3. Not vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
20                                             AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


         9.9.2.4. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
         teams or other authorized users.
         9.9.2.5. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., issues and permissions) to their Tier-1
         Administrator for coordination, review and resolution.
         9.9.2.6. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
         (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
  9.10. Tracking Database Management. L2 organizations will use JLLIS to archive and
  track their Observations and Lessons Identified action items. Exception: organizations with a
  requirement to track lessons on coalition partner networks may use other methods as
  required. Organizations using stand-alone methods should transfer lessons with broader AF
  equity to JLLIS to ensure they are accessible by the widest possible AF and DoD audience.
  9.11. JLLIS Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the JLLIS training program.
  The AF-JLLIS Program Manager is available to provide formal JLLIS training classes for
  Tier-1 Administrators, Tier-2 CLMs and personnel assigned to HAF. Each L2 office will
  establish guidelines for JLLIS training currency and a method to track training completion.
     9.11.1. The Tier-1 Administrators JLLIS training program consists of training newly
     assigned Tier-2 CLMs, establishing a Tier-1 training program for use throughout the
     command, as well as conducting classroom and over-the-shoulder training sessions
     locally through recurring sessions or just-in-time training as required.
     9.11.2. Tier-2 CLMs will provide training for NAF and lower echelon personnel. If the
     Tier-1 has no Tier-2 CLMs assigned, overall training for NAF and/or lower echelon
     personnel remains the responsibility of the Tier-1 Administrator.
     9.11.3. Tier-1/2 training should cover coordinating and tracking Observations through
     the AFLP. Training will include tracking a lesson to resolution and basic authorized
     JLLIS user training. Training should include the command‟s local process based on
     command guidance through a tutorial or a locally developed training course.
     9.11.4. MAJCOM/A9L offices will provide their personnel basic authorized JLLIS user
     training, Tier-1 Administrator training for newly assigned Administrator/Managers and
     Tier-2 CLM training.
     9.11.5. Basic Authorized JLLIS User Training is provided by AF/A9L, Tier-1
     Administrator/ Manager or Tier-2 CLMs. This training is for new JLLIS users who will
     use the system on a recurring basis for research, submitting Observations, AARs, etc.
     Basic user training information is also posted on the JLLIS home page.
10. FORMS ADOPTED.
  10.1. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
  10.2. AF IMT 4329, Observation or Lesson Learned (NIPR)
  10.3. AF IMT 4329A, Observation or Lesson Learned (SIPR)
  10.4. AF IMT 4330, After Action Summary Report (NIPR)
  10.5. AF IMT 4330A, After Action Summary Report (SIPR)
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                               21




                                 Dr. JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN
                                 Director, Studies, & Analyses, Assessments, and
                                 Lessons Learned

                                 (AFGSC)

                                 RONALD L. GROVE, Col, USAF
                                 Director of Analyses, Assessments and Lessons
                                 Learned
 22                                           AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program, 10 Oct 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
(Added-AFGSC) CJCSI 3170.01F, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1
May 2007
(Added-AFGSC) AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010
AFPD 90-16, Air Force Studies, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned, 4 Jun 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
ACGU—Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Forces
AEG—Air and Space Expeditionary Group
AETF—Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force
AEW—Air and Space Expeditionary Wing
AF—Air Force
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
(Added-AFGSC) AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
(Added-AFGSC) AFI—Air Force Instruction
(Added-AFGSC) AFL2GOSG—Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group
AFL2P—AF Lessons Learned Program
AFLP—Air Force Lessons Process
(Added-AFGSC) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
(Added-AFGSC) AL2OB—Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) Lessons Learned
Oversight Board
(Added-AFGSC) AL2SG—Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) Lesson Learned
Steering Group
(Added-AFGSC) AL2WG—Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) Lessons Learned
Working Group
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                       23


AOR—Area of Responsibility
CAC—Common Assess Card
CLM—Command Lessons Manager
C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
CRB—Configuration Review Board
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DCR—DOTMLPF Change Request
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GOSG—General Officer Steering Group
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
IR—Issue Resoulution
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JET—Joint Expeditionary Tasking
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
JLLP—Joint Lessons Learned Program
LI—Lessons Identified
LNO—Liaison Officer
L2—Lesson Learned
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-AFGSC) POC—Point of Contact
PR—Periodic Report
(Added-AFGSC) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFI—Request For Information
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
 24                                               AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


SME—Subject Matter Expert
Stan/Eval—Standardization/Evaluation
TIR—Tracking Issue Resolution
TTPs—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UCC—Unified Combatant Command
USAF—United States Air Force
(Added-AFGSC) WG—Working Group
WJTSC—Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference

Terms
Active—A status of a Lesson Identified indicating that the lesson is currently being worked to
resolution by a DOTMLPF&P OPR.
After Action Report (AAR)—The AAR is a consolidated report that includes an executive
summary covering the event information (e.g., dates, locations, and participants) and
Observations. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in
military operations. AAR Observations should describe how the mission could be/was
improved, potential risks to mission degradation and how to mitigate those risks.
Collection—Collection is a method by which Observations enter the AFLP and involves formal
and informal methods. Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection
efforts or they can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individual Airmen.
In a learning culture, every Airman, civilian and contractor contribute to the AFLP.
Dissemination—Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to get
lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy are factors that implement senior leader guidance and lead to the
development and employment of joint force capabilities.
Lesson Identified—A validated Observation that represents a matter (e.g., capability, concept,
process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson Identified contains a
better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader organization.
Lesson Learned—An insight gained that improves military operations or activities at the
strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
individual or an organization.
Observation—An input from any source into the AFLP. Observations contain information
regarding specific events, activities, circumstances or outcomes and should include sufficient
factual and contextual information to support their validation.
Resolution—Process to ensure Lessons Identified are staffed for action. Resolution actions
should be captured in JLLIS or appropriate documents and tracked to closure.
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                                25


System of Record (SoR)—An information storage system (commonly implemented on a
computer system), which is the authoritative data source for a given data element or piece of
information. The need to identify systems of record can become acute in organizations where
management information systems have been built by taking output data from multiple source
systems, re-processing this data, and then re-presenting the result for a new business use. Where
the integrity of the data is vital, a data element must either be linked to, or extracted directly from
its system of record. The integrity and validity of any data set is open to question when there is
no traceable connection with a known System of Record.
Validation—Process to ensure an Observation is reviewed by staff functionals and/or
operational experts to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed
through the AFLP.
 26                                             AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


                                        Attachment 2
 AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING GROUP (AF L2
                         GOSG) CHARTER

A2.1. Purpose. The GOSG is a forum for senior leaders to discuss operational and strategic
level lessons and to shape AFL2P activities.
A2.2. Concept. AF/A9 sponsors an AF/CVA-chaired annual meeting attended by HQ USAF
senior leaders, MAJCOM/CVs and other invited senior leaders. This meeting provides a means
for senior leaders to:
   A2.2.1. Enhance the understanding of L2 from the conduct of operations, exercises and
   contingencies.
   A2.2.2. Inform key process owners of important L2 information that can be used for their
   decisions.
   A2.2.3. Review current CSAF L2 focus areas, status of any associated lessons and proposed
   topics for future CSAF L2 focus areas.
A2.3. Membership:
   A2.3.1. Chair: AF/CVA
   A2.3.2. Co-chair: AF/A9
   A2.3.3. SAF: XC, LL, IA, IG
   A2.3.4. AF: A1, A2, A3/5, A4/7, A8, A9, A10, HC, HO, JA, SE, SG
   A2.3.5. MAJCOM/CVs, NGB/CF
   A.2.3.5. (AFGSC) The Vice Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command (HQ
   AFGSC/CV), represents AFGSC at the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering
   Group (AFL2GOSG).
   A2.3.6. LeMay Center/CC, USAFWC/CC, USAFEC/CC
   A2.3.7. AFDW/CV
   A2.3.8. Others as required by the meeting agenda
A2.4. Roles and Responsibilities:
   A2.4.1. AF/CVA chairs the meeting.
   A2.4.2. AF/A9 develops the agenda and content for approval.
   A2.4.3. GOSG members discuss L2 and associated topics for their functional areas.
   A2.4.4. Selected members and guests provide highlights of their L2 activities.
   A2.4.5.1.    AF/A9L serves as GOSG secretariat to organize meetings and accomplish
   follow-on tasks.
A2.5. Timing and Venue:
   A2.5.1. Annual, preferably pre-CORONA
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                         27


   A2.5.2. HQ USAF (Secure VTC for members outside National Capitol Region)
A2.6. AF Stakeholder GOSG Role:
   A2.6.1. Stakeholders GOSGs are formed as advocacy groups related to specific reports or
   threads designated under CSAF Focus Areas.
   A2.6.2. Stakeholder GOSG members will advise collection team members on content of
   specific collections and preview designated reports at the GO/SES level prior to more general
   distribution.
   A2.6.3. Stakeholder GOSG members will validate Observations, advocate for issue
   resolution, implement solutions and incorporate lessons within their area of functional or
   operational responsibility.
28                       AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


                   Attachment 3
     OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011              29


                               Attachment 4
                   AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE
 30                                             AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011


                               Attachment 5 (Added-AFGSC)
                        AFGSC LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM

A5.1. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC L2 Program: Below is the overall AFGSC L2 Program
chart. It displays the breakout of the work functions required of the A9L Division to implement
the policies assigned in the original AFI and this AFGSC Supplement. The text following the
figure is a description of what is included in each work area.

Figure A5.1. (Added) Air Force Global Strike Command Lessons Learned Program
(AFGSCL2P)




   A5.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) Lessons Learned Process: The Event Execution side of the
   AFGSC L2 Program is focused on the process defined in this AFI from collection through
   dissemination. The Event CONOPS is a document that explains step by step the activities
   required to complete each function within the L2 process to include the inputs required,
   actions to be taken, and outputs desired. It is considered the “how to” book for collection
   events.
   A5.1.2. (Added-AFGSC) Event Selection: AFGSC/A9L establishes criteria to prioritize
   collection events of interest. Given there may not be enough resources to collect on all
   desired events, the criteria act as screening systems to first determine if an event is value
   added and then to prioritize the ones that pass. This design ensures the Division prioritizes
   activities and makes efficient use of its limited resources.
   A5.1.3. (Added-AFGSC) Data Base Review: As described in this AFI, there is a need for a
   short and long term review process to ensure there is a way to implement identified solutions
AFI 90-1601_AFGSCSUP_I 26 APRIL 2011                                                            31


  to allow permanent change to take place. A short term review is required to keep the status
  of all active lessons current. The long term process focuses on lessons implemented to
  ensure the solution is permanent and not forgotten over time. Also, a Continuous
  Improvement (CI) model is available to help understand the lesson, find the root cause, and
  develop a solution that can be implemented so permanent change takes place.
  A5.1.4. (Added-AFGSC) Training/Education: Initial and recurring training/education must
  be included in all programs of this type to keep the force up to date on new procedures and
  train new individuals as they transfer into a lessons learned position. AFGSC and all
  subordinate units must be educated on the process used for lessons learned and trained on
  how they can be a part of the process from collection through dissemination. A9L personnel
  must receive initial and recurring training as well as provide the training. Finally, as with all
  programs, collaboration tools are needed. AFGSC/A9L has a web page accessible through
  the Air Force Portal to provide more detailed information about the AFGSC L2 Division and
  its ongoing activities.
  A5.1.5. (Added-AFGSC) Program Management: This final work area involves activities to
  manage the overall program. An action plan is the primary means of documentation because
  as this AFI and AFGSC Supplement explain what needs to be done to implement a lessons
  learned program, this document describes the actions necessary to accomplish the assigned
  roles and responsibilities. The AFI is the “what” and the Action Plan is the “how.” Detailed
  activities and deliverables are discussed and metrics to measure the performance of the
  Division are identified. These metrics then become the basis for process improvement of the
  AFGSC L2 Program.
