BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-104
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  23 APRIL 2013
                                                  AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                             9 OCTOBER 2013
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 23 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                            Safety

                                                    NUCLEAR SURETY TAMPER CONTROL
                                                          AND DETECTION PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFSEC/SEWN                                                            Certified by: AF/SE
                                                               (Maj Gen Margaret H. Woodward)
                                                                                      Pages: 12
Supersedes:    AFI 91-104, 10 September
               2010
                                            (AFGSC)
OPR: HQ AFGSC/SEW                                                 Certified by: HQ AFGSC/SEW
                                                                          (Lt Col Jason A. Jones)
                                                                                         Pages:5
Supersedes:    AFI 91-104_AFGSCSUP, 4
               September 2012


This Instruction implements AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety. This publication
is consistent with AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. It provides guidance on setting up
procedures for nuclear surety tamper control through the Two-Person Concept and for tamper
detection through approved nuclear component sealing methods. It applies to all Air Force units
with a mission involving operations, maintenance, security, or logistics movement of nuclear
weapons or certified critical components. It also applies to all Air Force units responsible for
sealing requirements according to applicable safety rules for nuclear weapon systems or the
handling and storage procedures for certified critical components. This Instruction also applies to
the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard of the United States performing nuclear duties.
This Instruction sets forth guidance regarding nuclear surety tamper control and detection
programs managed by Air Force civilian and military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve
 2                                              AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013


and Air National Guard. Failure to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this
directive in paragraphs 1.2., 1.3., 1.4., 3.4. and associated sub-paragraphs of those stated, by
military personnel is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
Violations may result in administrative disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable
criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm. This
Instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013. The applicable Privacy Act System Notice, Serious Incident
Reports      (June    11,     1997,     62      FR     31793),     is   available    online    at:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf.          Send major command (MAJCOM)
supplements to this instruction to AFSEC/SEW, 9700 G Avenue, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670
for coordination before publication. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

(AFGSC) AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs, is
supplemented as follows: This instruction applies to HQ AFGSC, subordinate units, and all
organizations receiving support from AFGSC assets. This supplement applies to Air Force
Reserve Command and Air National Guard units supporting AFGSC operations. Further details
are provided as stated in EAP-STRAT Volume 16, ICBM Code Component Control Policy and
Procedures. Users of this instruction must notify HQ AFGSC/SEW of conflicts between this
instruction and other directives, instructions, or technical orders. Forward unit supplements to
HQ AFGSC/SEW, 245 Davis Avenue East, Suite 200, Barksdale AFB, LA 71110 for
coordination prior to publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), HQ AFGSC/SEW using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised to make administrative changes and to reflect organizational
changes since the last publication of this Instruction. This publication must be completely
reviewed.

(AFGSC) SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(AFGSC) This interim change clarifies existing guidance, properly aligns paragraphs in the
Wing and Below responsibilities and deletes paragraphs 3.3.3.6.1., 3.3.3.6.2 and 3.3.4. A
margin bar (ǀ) indicates newly revised material.
AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                              3


1. Requirements and Procedures.
   1.1. Tamper Control Program. The Two-Person Concept (TPC) is central to nuclear surety
   tamper control measures in the Air Force. It is designed to make sure that a lone individual
   cannot perform an incorrect act or unauthorized procedure on a nuclear weapon, nuclear
   weapon system, or certified critical component.
   1.2. Concept Enforcement. Each organization with a mission or function involving nuclear
   weapons, nuclear weapon systems, or certified critical components:
      1.2.1. Identifies no-lone zones (where at least two authorized persons must be present
      during any operation or task).
          1.2.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) At munitions facilities, the interior of igloos,
          multicubicles, or any other magazines/storage facilities containing nuclear weapons
          or certified critical components; nuclear weapon maintenance bays when nuclear
          weapons or certified critical components are present (these include any maintenance
          bays in which nuclear weapons maintenance operations are being conducted, or
          whenever a nuclear weapon is in the building). Once initial entry is made, reduce the
          no-lone zone to the work bay where the weapon is located.
          1.2.1.2. (Added-AFGSC) At aircraft parking areas, within designated boundaries,
          once the area has been purged, including the interior of the aircraft, during the loading
          and unloading of nuclear weapons.
          1.2.1.3. (Added-AFGSC) At an operationally certified launch facility (LF), the no-
          lone zone begins at launcher equipment room (LER)-1 and extends to include LER-2
          and the launch tube. A Two-Person Concept team must control entry to the LER
          once the secondary door has lowered sufficiently to allow access to the LER. See
          applicable safety and security rules to ensure proper security guard requirements are
          met when nuclear weapons, operational codes or operational code components are
          present at the LF. These requirements also apply during modifications with nuclear-
          certified equipment installed.
          1.2.1.4. (Added-AFGSC) At an operationally certified launch control center (LCC),
          the no-lone zone is the area within the acoustical enclosure. When the LCC is
          unoccupied, the no-lone zone extends to the security control center (SCC) door. A
          Two-Person Concept Team will guard access to the SCC door. If operational codes
          are installed or in field storage, this Two-Person Concept Team will consist of at least
          one certified Missile Combat Crew Member (MCCM). Once the SCC door or any
          exterior access door in the elevator shaft entryway is opened, an appropriate Two-
          Person Concept Team, based on codes present in the LCC, will be the first to enter
          and establish Two-Person control of the no-lone zone.
          1.2.1.5. (Added-AFGSC) The interior of any vehicle or semitrailer, when it
          contains a full-up weapon with a war reserve warhead installed, or a certified critical
          component.
          1.2.1.6. (Added-AFGSC) The codes vault is a no-lone zone whenever certified
          critical components are present or certification procedures are in progress. When
          either lock or motion-sensor alarms are inoperative, the vault must be guarded by at
 4                                               AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013


            least a Two-Person Concept team. See EAP-STRAT Volume 16, ICBM Code
            Component Control Policy and Procedures for further requirements.
            1.2.1.7. (Added-AFGSC) Any room, computer facility, vault, or similar area where
            certified critical components are repaired (operationally certified or decertified,
            functioning or non-functioning), manufactured, stored, or processed, is a no-lone
            zone. For an area in which maintenance is infrequently performed on certified critical
            components, establish a temporary no-lone zone with signs placed around the work
            area while components are present.
        1.2.2. Enforces the Two-Person Concept.
            1.2.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) -AFGSC Ensure members have been briefed prior to
            entering a no-lone zone and the Air Force Two-Person Concept applies. Supervisors
            must ensure that individuals are aware of the location of all no-lone zones, location of
            critical components within the no-lone zone where they will perform their duties,
            emergency procedures, and methods for reporting violations and hazards. Do not use
            signs or devices externally that identify a building as a no-lone zone.
            1.2.2.2. (Added-AFGSC) For PNAF missions, the no-lone zone will be enforced
            when the nuclear cargo enters the PNAF restricted area as defined in DoDS-
            5210.41M_AFMAN 31-108V3, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual: Nuclear Weapon
            Specific Requirements (U).
        1.2.3. Develops procedures to limit entry to authorized persons who meet the
        requirements of paragraph 1.3.
            1.2.3.1. (Added-AFGSC) After entry into a no-lone zone, the supervisor/team chief
            of each authorized team controls individual team members within the no-lone zone.
            1.2.3.2. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomber Only] Red ball maintenance team response to
            aircraft will be verified by aircrew.
     1.3. Team Requirements. (Refer to paragraph 1.6.1 for criteria on foreign nationals.) A Two-
     Person Concept team consists of at least two individuals who:
        1.3.1. Are certified under the Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), as specified in DoD
        5210.42-R_AFMAN 10-3902, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program.
        1.3.2. Know the nuclear surety requirements of the task they perform.
        1.3.3. Can promptly detect an incorrect act or unauthorized procedure.
        1.3.4. Have successfully completed nuclear surety training according to AFI 91-101, Air
        Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program.
        1.3.5. Are designated to perform the required task.
     1.4. Two Person Concept Violations. Report a Two-Person Concept violation when a lone
     individual in a no-lone zone has the opportunity to tamper with or damage a nuclear weapon,
     nuclear weapon system, or certified critical component. Refer to AFMAN 91- 221, Weapons
     Safety Investigations and Reports, for reporting guidance.
NOTE: If TPC is maintained by more than two persons, a lone individual may be temporarily
obscured from sight or not directly observed by the remaining TPC team if the lone individual is
AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  5


in a location that would preclude the ability to perform an incorrect act or unauthorized
procedure that could affect the nuclear weapons, the weapon system, or critical components (i.e.
There is no violation of the two-person concept). However, the TPC team must maintain
awareness of the location and justification for the lone individual to be temporarily out of sight
(e.g., an individual whether on PRP or non-PRP under escort, may enter a lavatory or other
sealed compartment within a no-lone zone without continuous direct observation by the
remaining TPC team as long as that compartment does not afford access as previously
described).

A momentary breach of the no-lone zone is not a violation if no individual had the opportunity to
perform an incorrect act or unauthorized procedure. In performing certain tasks, team members
may lose sight of each other or be far apart. One team member may be briefly out of sight to
perform a specific task if it is unsafe or physically impossible to maintain constant observation.
   1.4. (AFGSC) Report violations of the Two-Person Concept, including emergency
   response, through the command post to the Wing Commander. The Wing Commander will
   ensure violations are investigated promptly. A Two-Person Concept team must ascertain if
   unauthorized acts were performed, inspect involved certified critical components, verify their
   status, and reestablish the integrity of the system. Accomplish applicable visual and
   functional checks for components that have such procedures established.
   1.5. Authorized Deviations. You may deviate from the Two-Person Concept when:
       1.5.1. The nuclear Weapon System Safety Rules (WSSR) specifically authorize a
       deviation.
       1.5.2. An emergency presents an immediate threat to the safety of personnel or the
       security of a nuclear weapon, nuclear weapon system, or certified critical component.
       War plan exercises are not considered emergencies.
   1.6. Additional Conditions:
       1.6.1. Non-US Personnel. Per AFI 91-112, Safety Rules For US/NATO Strike Fighters,
       for US custodial units at allied installations, foreign nationals may be part of a Two-
       Person Concept, and host nations will implement equivalent personnel reliability
       programs.
       1.6.2. Entry Control Personnel. The Two-Person Concept applies to individuals who
       control entry into a no-lone zone. Entry controllers may not form a Two-Person Concept
       team with personnel inside the no-lone zone.
       1.6.2. (AFGSC) Entry controllers will not be the Sole Vouching Authority (SVA).
       1.6.3. Couriers. Couriers ensure that the host installation meets Two-Person Concept
       requirements and no-lone zones are delineated around nuclear logistics aircraft.
       1.6.4. PRP Interim-Certified Personnel Restrictions. Two interim-certified individuals
       may not form a Two-Person Concept team. Also, an interim-certified member may not
       pilot a single-seat aircraft loaded with nuclear weapons.
       1.6.5. Nonqualified Personnel. An individual who does not qualify as a member of a
       Two-Person Concept team may enter a no-lone zone to perform a specific task only if
       escorted by a Two-Person Concept team. Escorts should be capable of detecting incorrect
 6                                                 AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013


        acts or unauthorized procedures. Escort procedures will be accomplished in accordance
        with the applicable directive(s) governing the nuclear weapon system or critical
        component defining the no-lone zone.
2. Tamper Detection Program.
     2.1. Sealing Requirements. Certain items must be sealed because either:
        2.1.1. Air Force nuclear WSSRs require it, or,
        2.1.2. In the case of some certified critical components, seals protect their certification
        status while in storage or during transportation, as specified in AFI 91-105, Critical
        Components
     2.2. Sealing Methods. Authorized sealing methods include:
        2.2.1. Safety Wiring and Sealing. Two types of seals are authorized using this method.
        The first method consists of seals composed of a malleable material installed with a
        crimping device and controlled die to form an impressed distinctive mark or unique
        identifier. The second method consists of seals applied with self-locking, non-reversible
        feature with a singularly unique serial number/alpha, color control system. Both types of
        seals are used with safety wire connected to certain switches, covers, handles, or levers.
        Breakage or alteration of the wire or seal provides evidence/detection of possible
        unauthorized acts, access or tampering. Use this method only in no-lone zones.
        2.2.2. Tamper Detection Indicators (TDI). In this method, an approved TDI is placed so
        it will indicate if someone has activated, or had access to the interior of a certified critical
        component. Once the TDI is installed, evidence of tampering is visible to the naked eye
        or can be detected using special equipment.
            2.2.2.1. TDI and other authorized sealing methods proposed for use in nuclear
            weapons systems will be properly certified prior to use according to AFI 63-125,
            Nuclear Certification Program.
            2.2.2.2. (Added-AFGSC) See EAP-STRAT Volume 16, ICBM Code Component
            Control Policy and Procedures for further guidance on TDI control, storage, use, and
            destruction. Uninstalled TDIs, removed TDIs, and TDI residue must be controlled by
            two US military members with a secret clearance.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) oversees the Air Force Nuclear Surety Tamper
     Control and Detection Programs. Acting for AF/SE, the Chief of the Weapons Safety
     Division manages the programs and certifies the design safety features of sealing methods
     proposed for use in nuclear weapon systems according to AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear
     Safety Design Certification Program.
     3.2. Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group (NWSSG) recommends sealing requirements in
     operational nuclear weapon systems and proposes specific nuclear weapon system safety
     rules, if necessary. (See AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational
     Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules.)
     3.3. Major Commands:
AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                          7


     3.3.1. Develop and publish Field publications, as needed, to implement and enforce the
     Air Force Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs throughout their
     commands.
     3.3.2. Develop and distribute procedures for sealing, where appropriate. At a minimum,
     the procedural publication will:
        3.3.2.1. State when and by whom seals can be applied and removed.
        3.3.2.2. Establish controls for the handling, receipt, storage, issue, inventory, and
        disposal of TDIs (including all residue), controlled dies and self-locking, non-
        reversible seals (example: roto-seals).
        3.3.2.3. Direct that TDIs, controlled dies and self-locking, non-reversible seals are
        stored and accounted for by individuals not responsible for their installation.
        3.3.2.4. Direct personnel to comply with the following steps for malleable seals only:
            3.3.2.4.1. Place a distinctive marking (determined locally) on malleable seals
            using a crimping device and die.
            3.3.2.4.2. Be sure to destroy any distinctive markings on malleable seals after you
            remove them.
        3.3.2.5. Direct personnel to verify seal integrity immediately following installation.
        Note: For aircraft only, verify seals before and after any task or operation performed
        in the immediate area of the seal. Do not verify aircraft seals before an operation or
        task during alert crew member exercises or actual responses, but do verify the seals
        after the exercise or alert.
        3.3.2.6. Require periodic inspections of seals on nuclear weapon-loaded aircraft,
        missile systems, and certified critical components in storage or transport.
        3.3.2.7. Require that only Two-Person Concept teams install seals and verify they
        remain intact.
        3.3.2.7. (AFGSC) Only Two-Person concept teams will install TDIs and must verify
        their condition.
        3.3.2.8. Direct training of maintenance personnel, aircrews, missile combat crews,
        and other involved personnel to recognize distinctive marking or serial numbers of
        the seals.
        3.3.2.8. (AFGSC) [Bomber Only] The Operations Group and Maintenance Group
        commanders will ensure all flying squadron operations and maintenance personnel
        involved in nuclear operations in the vicinity of the TDIs are able to identify
        operational and training TDIs.
        3.3.2.9. Prescribe a course of action when an installed seal is found broken or shows
        evidence of tampering. At a minimum:
        3.3.2.9. (AFGSC) For TDIs, or associated hardware found broken or missing and
        the circumstances cannot be determined, perform the following:
            3.3.2.9.1. Investigate the event and send a mishap report according to AFMAN
8                                          AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013


          91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports.
          3.3.2.9.1. (AFGSC) Report unexplained TDI breakage to wing safety and the
          unit command post. Investigate the event and report according to AFMAN 91-
          221. Request security forces or Air Force Office of Special Investigations
          assistance as appropriate. Submit security report according to AFI 31-101,
          Integrated Defense (FOUO), as applicable. Follow EAP STRAT Vol 16
          guidance for reporting any incident involving holographic TDIs. (ICBM) A
          Possible Code Compromise (PCC) or Possible Compromise of TDI Technology
          (PCTT) investigation may be required. In the LCC, if both MCCMs did not
          witness the damage of the TDI, a PCC or PCTT investigation may be required.
          3.3.2.9.2. Establish procedures to maintain control of the system until situation is
          resolved.
          3.3.2.9.2. (AFGSC) Guard the item with an authorized Two-Person Concept
          (MX or OPS) team until the seal can be replaced. (ICBM) Follow EAP-STRAT
          Vol 16 requirements for code component control.
          3.3.2.9.3. Check the integrity of the weapon system and reseal if integrity is
          assured.
          3.3.2.9.3. (AFGSC) Perform such checks or inspections on the weapon system
          to determine it is safe. [Bomber Only] As a minimum, re-accomplish security
          purge of aircraft, perform visual recertification inspections of weapons and
          release equipment and verification of pre-load and post-load procedures.
          3.3.2.9.4. Prescribe a course of action when a seal is accidentally broken during
          authorized operations.
          3.3.2.9.4. (AFGSC) The known, inadvertent breaking of a TDI in the presence
          of an authorized team may not require incident reporting, but does require proper
          notification, replacement, and guarding prior to TDI removal and replacement. If
          the breakage occurs in the LCC, crew rest is prohibited until TDI is replaced.
          3.3.2.9.5. Ensure training seals can be easily distinguished from, and are not used
          as, operational seals.
          3.3.2.9.5. (AFGSC) [Bomber Only] Do not use operational TDIs with training
          weapons. Distinctive training TDIs will be used during training or exercises with
          mock special weapons. Training TDIs must be stored separately from operational
          TDIs.
    3.3.3. (Added-AFGSC) Wing and Below:
       3.3.3.1. (Added-AFGSC) Wings will develop local standard publications or
       checklists to ensure adequate control of certified critical components or nuclear
       weapons and application of the Tamper Control and Detection Programs, where
       technical orders or AFGSC directives do not cover a particular local situation. These
       procedures will be approved by the wing Weapons Safety Manager.
       3.3.3.2. (Added-AFGSC) Units will designate, in writing, personnel authorized to
       apply and remove coded seals or TDIs. Apply and remove seals only when directed
AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                          9


        by the applicable technical order or instructions. (ICBM) IAW EAP-STRAT Vol. 16,
        Unit/CC delegates responsibility for training and authorization for handling,
        removing and applying holographic TDIs with written appointment of Senior Code
        Controller (SCC). The SCC certifies unit code handler personnel and documents on
        an AFSPC (prior to 1 Dec 09/AFGSC Form 165, Code Handler/Controller
        Certification and Training Record, which serves as written authorization in
        accordance with this regulation.
        3.3.3.3. (Added-AFGSC) Units will keep coded crimpers with dies and TDIs in a
        secure container and inventory every 30 days. Establish written procedures to cover
        local manufacture, handling, receipt, storage, issue, inventory, and disposal of TDIs,
        crimpers, and dies not covered in technical orders, directives or this supplement.
        Mutilate used TDIs to preclude imitation or reuse. (ICBM) Comply with the TDI
        inventory requirements outlined in EAP-STRAT Vol 16, ICBM Code Component
        Policy and Procedures.
        3.3.3.4. (Added-AFGSC) TDIs, self-locking, non-reversible seals are stored and
        accounted for by individuals not responsible for their installation. Units will
        designate, in writing, personnel primarily responsible for inventory and issue of TDIs.
        (ICBM) The launch control panel key switch TDI is not intended to satisfy Two
        Person Concept requirements, but to show evidence the key switch has been moved,
        thus requiring a replacement panel. The launch control panel key switch TDI may be
        installed by either missile combat crews or code controllers.
        3.3.3.5. (Added-AFGSC) Mutilate removed seals to prevent identification.
        3.3.3.6. (AFGSC) Verify seal integrity immediately after installation and conduct
        periodic inspection of TDIs according to weapons system technical orders.
            3.3.3.6.1. (AFGSC) DELETED
            3.3.3.6.2. (AFGSC) DELETED
     3.3.4. (AFGSC) DELETED
  3.4. Two-Person Concept Team Responsibilities.
     3.4.1. Enforce the Two-Person Concept while performing a task or operation and
     continue to enforce it until you are either relieved by authorized personnel or you have
     secured the nuclear weapon, nuclear weapon system, or certified critical component.
     3.4.2. Take immediate, positive steps to prevent or stop an incorrect procedure or
     unauthorized act.
     3.4.3. Report deviations immediately to the appropriate supervisor.
     3.4.3. (AFGSC) Ensure Two-Person Concept violations are reported in accordance with
     paragraph 1.4




                                          MARGARET H. WOODWARD
10     AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013


     Major General, USAF
     Chief of Safety

     (AFGSC)

     REY R. ERMITAÑO, Colonel, USAF
     Director of Safety
AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                        11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-AFGSC) AFGSC Form 165, Code Handler/Controller Certification and Training
Record
(Added-AFGSC) AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports, 8 Nov 2010
(Added-AFGSC) AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 8 August 2012
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 13 October 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety
Rules, 24 June 2010
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, 17 November 2010
AFI 91-105, Critical Components, 7 January 2011
AFI 91-112, Safety Rules for US/NATO Strike Fighters, 9 September 2009
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
DoD S-5210.41M_AFMAN 31-108, Nuclear Weapons Security Manual, 13 July 2009
DoD 5210.42_ AFMAN 10-3902, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program, 13
November 2006
AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports, 8 November 2010
AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 December 2010
(Added-AFGSC) DoDS-5210.41M_AFMAN 31-108V3, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual:
Nuclear Weapon Specific Requirements (U), 7 March 2013
(Added-AFGSC) EAP-STRAT Vol 16, ICBM Code Component Control Policy and
Procedures, 1 March 2012
FF-S-2738A, Tamper Seals
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFI—- Air Force Instruction
 12                                      AFI91-104_AFGSCSUP_I 9 OCTOBER 2013


AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
AFPD—- Air Force Policy Directive
AFSEC/SEW—- Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division
AFSEC/SEWN—- AFSEC/SEW, Nuclear Weapons Safety Branch
AFSEC—- Air Force Safety Center
AF/SE—- Air Force Chief of Safety
(Added-AFGSC) ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
(Added-AFGSC) LCC—Launch Control Center
(Added-AFGSC) LER—Launcher Equipment Room
(Added-AFGSC) LF—Launch Facility
(Added-AFGSC) MCCM—Missile Combat Crew Member
NWSSG—- Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group
(Added-AFGSC) PCTT—Possible Compromise of TDI Technology
(Added-AFGSC) PNAF—Primary Nuclear Airlift Force
(Added-AFGSC) PPC—Possible Code Compromise
(Added-AFGSC) SCC—Security Control Center
(Added-AFGSC) SVA—Sole Vouching Authority
(Added-AFGSC) WSM—Weapons Safety Manager
WSSR—Weapons System Safety Rule
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PRP—- Personnel Reliability Program
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
TDI—- Tamper Detection Indicators
(AFGSC) TDI—Tamper Detection Indicator
TPC—Two Person Concept
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
