BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-506
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  2 APRIL 2014

                                                                           Special Management

                                                     COMPREHENSIVE AIRMAN FITNESS
                                                                             (CAF)


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1SAY                                                               Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                           (Mr. Robert E. Corsi)
                                                                                       Pages: 16




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-5, Community Action
Information Board, by establishing requirements for Comprehensive Airman Fitness (CAF) to
enhance the resilience of individuals, families, and communities. It establishes CAF as a key
readiness component for understanding, maintaining, and assessing the well-being of Airmen
and their families while sustaining their ability to carry out the Air Force mission. It supports
and augments Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3405.01, Chairman’s
Total Force Fitness Framework, and formalizes personal resilience/risk management efforts as
recommended in Air Force Follow-on Review 100930-060, Protecting the Force: Lessons From
Fort Hood. In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE) and the
Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower,
Personnel, and Services (HQ AF/A1) develops personnel policy for Comprehensive Airman
Fitness. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any level; all supplements
must be approved by the HSB prior to certification and approval. It applies to military and
civilian employee personnel of the regular Air Force and the Air Force Reserve (AFR). It
applies to Air National Guard (ANG) forces to the extent they are capable of providing required
services. This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by
the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10 United States Code (USC) Section 8013,
Secretary of the Air Force. The applicable Privacy Act SORN(s) F036 AF PC C, Military
Personnel Records System is available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf. Vigilance
must be taken to protect Personally Identifying Information when submitting or sending
nominations, applications or other documents to Department of Defense (DoD) agencies through
 2                                                                   AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


government Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal, faxing or scanning. Requests
for waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for
consideration and approval.

Tier waiver authorities as approved by the Inspector General Advisory Board have been included
per AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management. Refer to AFI 33-360 for tier waiver
authority definitions and procedures. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS).
AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014                                                                           3


                                            Chapter 1

                       COMPREHENSIVE AIRMAN FITNESS (CAF)

1.1. Program Purpose. CAF is a holistic approach to develop over-arching Airman fitness and
resilience. “Airman” collectively refers to military, civilian, and family members. CAF includes
fitness in mental, physical, social, and spiritual domains and is not a stand-alone program or
specified training class; instead, CAF is a cultural shift in how we view and maintain fitness in a
more comprehensive manner and enables Airmen to hold each other accountable against Air
Force Core Values. CAF provides an integrated framework that encompasses many cross-
functional education and training efforts, activities, programs, and other equities that play a
contributory role in sustaining a fit, resilient, and ready force. Leaders and individuals
throughout the force must understand, promote, and support CAF.
1.2. Definitions. Terms used in this Instruction are defined in Attachment 1.
1.3. Policy. CAF equips Airmen with the tools and skills required to continually assess and
adjust, or calibrate, to their environment by allowing them to maintain the necessary balance of
cognitive skill, physical endurance, emotional stamina, and spiritual well-being needed to
execute our central mission—to fly, fight and win in air, space and cyberspace. Leaders and
supervisors will:
   1.3.1. Continue to develop Airmen and families, ensuring they are prepared mentally,
   physically, socially, and spiritually to carry out their missions.
   1.3.2. Instill CAF principles to increase performance of individuals, supervisors, leaders, and
   teams addressing life issues and accomplishing the mission.
   1.3.3. Monitor and manage the status of the Air Force’s fitness and well-being at multiple
   levels through the use of established metrics and measurement factors.
1.4. Strategy. CAF strategy focuses on strengthening fitness, resilience, and readiness in
Airmen, families, communities, and organizations through education, resilience building
activities, and wellness support programs.
   1.4.1. CAF is a strength based approach that emphasizes what fit people/organizations do to
   foster balanced fitness and teaches adaptive skills that promote comprehensive fitness and
   optimal performance.
   1.4.2. Resilience training and education address the spectrum of foundational life skills and
   competencies to meet an Airman’s needs at the right time.
   1.4.3. CAF incorporates the Wingman concept as a core element essential to building fit,
   resilient, and ready Airmen by dedicating time to focus on individual and unit wellness, and
   fostering a culture of Airmen taking care of Airmen.
   1.4.4. CAF provides tools for leaders to successfully create a culture of comprehensive
   fitness and optimize performance at work, home and in the community in consideration of
   the unique challenges that a military lifestyle presents.
   1.4.5. CAF encourages early self-help seeking behaviors and eliminating and/or reducing
   stigma associated with seeking help through appropriate agencies.
 4                                                                 AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


     1.4.6. CAF lines of effort are coordinated and integrated through the Community Action
     Information Board (CAIB) / Integrated Delivery System (IDS).
1.5. CAF Framework. The CAF framework consists of four domains: mental, physical, social,
and spiritual fitness; these four domains provide a methodology for understanding, maintaining,
and assessing the fitness of Airmen and their families (Attachment 2, Table A2.1).
AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014                                                                        5


                                         Chapter 2

                                  RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (HQ
USAF/A1). AF/A1 is the primary Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Focal Point (FP) for activities
related to this Instruction to include establishing CAF policy.
   2.1.1. The Director of Services, Headquarters Air Force (AF/A1S). Provides CAF program
   management and develops/implements CAF policy to include objectives, resource advocacy,
   and oversight of the CAF strategies and standardization across the Air Force.
       2.1.1.1. Provides technical guidance on CAF and approves implementation of training
       and education, initiatives, programs, and distribution of products.
       2.1.1.2. Provides policy oversight and/or development of the CAF Resilience Framework
       and all CAF training curriculums.
       2.1.1.3. Serves as Functional Area Manager (FAM) for Deployment Transition Center
       (DTC) Unit Type Code (UTC) and coordinates on nominated mission sets received from
       Component Commands for DTC attendance.
          2.1.1.3.1. A DTC augments existing AF redeployment and post-deployment
          programs by providing critical reintegration and decompression time to meet the
          needs of Airmen regularly exposed to significant risk of death in direct combat or
          regularly exposed to traumatic events.
          2.1.1.3.2. A DTC is not a Mental Health Treatment Center and will not be used to
          duplicate existing programs.
          2.1.1.3.3. DTC’s are integrated into redeployment processing and established IAW
          the AFPC/DPF maintained Deployment Transition Center (DTC) Concept of
          Operations (CONOPS).
       2.1.1.4. Develops care-provider specific functional resilience training for mortuary
       affairs personnel.
   2.1.2. The Air Force Personnel Center, Directorate of Airman and Family Care
   (AFPC/DPF).
       2.1.2.1. Develops and distributes operational CAF guidance to MAJCOMs/installations.
       2.1.2.2. Develops CAF annual refresher/developmental training requirements for
       installation Community Support Coordinators (CSC).
       2.1.2.3. Maintains CAF material/information on the AF Portal and a CAF SharePoint.
       2.1.2.4. Develops processes/methods of measurement for effectiveness for First Term
       Airmen Center (FTAC) and unit-level CAF training.
       2.1.2.5. Develops and maintains the Community Support Coordinator (CSC) Desktop
       Operating Guide for Comprehensive Airman Fitness (CAF).
       2.1.2.6. Maintains and coordinates changes to the Deployment Transition Center (DTC)
       Concept of Operations (CONOPS).
 6                                                                    AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


        2.1.2.7. Manages Master Resilience Trainer Course (MRTC) and Master Resilience
        Facilitator Course (MRFC) quotas based on need and available funding.
        2.1.2.8. Provides and manages content for web-based Leadership and Airmen’s CAF
        Toolkit.
        2.1.2.9. Serves as MAJCOM functional OPR for DTCs and pilot unit for the DTCXX
        UTC, to include Deployment Transition Center (DTC) curriculum.
        2.1.2.10. Establishes requirements with the Directorate of Air Expeditionary Force
        Operations (AFPC/DPW) to serve as the Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging
        (MEFPAK) Responsible Agency (MRA) for the DTCXX UTC.
2.2. The Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG).
     2.2.1. AF/SG is the HAF FP for healthcare policies, clinical practice guidelines, related
     procedures, and standards governing Air Force healthcare programs for the medical
     community support of CAF.
     2.2.2. The AF/SG determines need, develops, and provides oversight of functional specific
     resilience training related to psychological health and mental fitness; participates in
     identification and sourcing of DTC rotational staff requirements; coordinates on mission sets
     nominated from functional components for DTC attendance.
2.3. HQ Air Education and Training Command (AETC). AETC, in coordination with
AF/A1, will ensure CAF overarching concepts (basic facts of human relations to include the
importance of leadership/character and the warrior role, cultural sensitivity, diversity,
discrimination policy, and information on suicide prevention and sexual assault prevention and
response, as well as resilience skills development) are included in curriculum relevant to each
level of accession and professional military education (PME) source.
2.4. Major Command (MAJCOM) and Organizations above Wing Level.
     2.4.1. Provides guidance and support to Community Support Coordinators (CSC) located on
     active duty installations. ANG will provide guidance and support to the CAIB/IDS wing
     POCs.
     2.4.2. Coordinates MRTC/MRFC attendance for Master Resilience Trainer (MRT)/Master
     Resilience Facilitator (MRF) selectees.
     2.4.3. Coordinates topics and timeliness while providing oversight for active duty
     semiannual and ARC annual Wingman Days.
     2.4.4. MAJCOMs supporting DTC operations will provide facility, space and support, and
     identify resource requirements.
2.5. Commander Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR).
     2.5.1. Establishes a DTC by tasking UTC DTCXX, Deployment Transition Center and
     associated augmentation UTCs, when needed to support decompression and reintegration of
     forces engaged in prolonged combat and regularly exposed to high risk of death or persistent
     exposure to trauma.
     2.5.2. Identify new/revalidate current mission sets requiring DTC attendance, as needed,
     with deployed commanders, functional communities, and AFFOR A1 and SG.
AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014                                                                         7


2.6. Installation Level.
   2.6.1. Commanders at all levels are responsible for establishing and executing CAF in
   compliance with this instruction. (T-1).
   2.6.2. The installation commander, or equivalent, ensures CAF efforts, activities, and
   emphasis for Airmen and families are implemented locally.
       2.6.2.1. Ensures unit Key Spouses (Key Volunteer for the ANG) are appointed/trained
       and helps inform families about CAF concepts and available resources.
       2.6.2.2. Ensures CAF education is included as part of local professional development
       opportunities. Note: at a minimum, to ensure frontline supervisors are proficient with
       resiliency skillsets, Staff-Sergeant selectees will be provided CAF education at the
       installation prior to attending Airman Leadership School until CAF is fully integrated
       into PME curriculum. Not required for ARC.
       2.6.2.3. Identify issues impacting units’ ability to provide organized, trained, and
       equipped forces and use the CAF framework to enhance and/or refine current fitness
       programs. (T-1).
       2.6.2.4. Identify Master Resilience Trainers (MRT) and Resilience Training Assistants
       (RTA) as required to meet unit needs; MRT and RTA roles are an additional duty. (T-2).
Note: Key Spouse (Key Volunteer for the ANG) appointees may be used as RTAs for assigned
unit spouses.
       2.6.2.5. Determine topics for Wingman Day based on the needs of the installation and/or
       unit. (T-2).
   2.6.3. Community Support Coordinator (CSC). CSCs are the installation’s CAF specialist
   and facilitator and also serve as the CAIB Executive Director, IDS Chair, and the local
   Caring for People Coordinator. Note: Not applicable for AFR. Not applicable to ANG. For
   installations without CSCs, this will be the responsibility of the IDS Chair and/or the CAIB
   Executive Director.
       2.6.3.1. Reports to the WG/CC, CV, or equivalent; Office symbol CVB. (T-3).
       2.6.3.2. Coordinates and integrates installation CAF lines of activity and promotes cross-
       organizational communication and collaboration to synchronize efforts. (T-1).
       2.6.3.3. Provides guidance to the installation commander, and IDS members on a wide
       range of quality of life issues and resilience. (T-2).
       2.6.3.4. Consults with appropriate functional agencies to develop recommended
       solutions to individual, family, community resilience and individual readiness. (T-2).
       2.6.3.5. Provides oversight for resilience training with unit training managers (UTM) and
       coordinates training efforts of MRTs and RTAs. (T-2).
       2.6.3.6. Ensures qualified MRTs are available/scheduled for First Term Airman Center
       (FTAC) resilience training. (T-3). FTAC not applicable for the ANG, unless an associate
       wing.
       2.6.3.7. Completes the MRT course and CAIB/IDS annual training. (T-3).
8                                                                      AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


       2.6.3.8. Executes installation CAF IAW the AFPC/DPF Community Support
       Coordinator (CSC) Desktop Operating Guide for Comprehensive Airman Fitness (CAF)
       and MAJCOM supplemental guidance where applicable.(T-2).
    2.6.4. Master Resilience Trainer (MRT). Preferred, but optional for the ANG.
       2.6.4.1. Completes the MRT course. (T-2).
       2.6.4.2. Provides FTAC resilience training, Individual Resilience Skills Training (IRST)
       and offers resilience training for units and family members as requested. (T-2). FTAC
       not applicable for AFR. FTAC not applicable for ANG.
       2.6.4.3. Coordinates and schedules resilience training through the CSC.              (T-3).
       Completed through the CAIB/IDS for ANG. Not applicable for AFR.
       2.6.4.4. Uses data collection tools provided to collect and report evaluation data during
       all training. (T-3).
       2.6.4.5. Conducts train-the-trainer courses for installation RTAs. (T-2).
    2.6.5. Resilience Training Assistant (RTA).
       2.6.5.1. Must complete RTA training and ensure training is tracked locally. (T-3).
       2.6.5.2. Assist installation MRTs in delivering unit resilience training.
       2.6.5.3. Deliver small group training, normally not to exceed 10 participants and more
       than one skill in any one session.
AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014                                                                        9


                                          Chapter 3

                              EDUCATION AND TRAINING

3.1. CAF Education and Training. Provides the tools to build and sustain a culture of
comprehensively fit Airmen and families. CAF education and training impacts every aspect of
Air Force life at various levels and may be delivered through multiple methods.
   3.1.1. Foundational Training. Provides basic foundational training on CAF and resilience
   principles in accession training for enlisted members and officers. Content will cover basic
   CAF concepts and resilience skills that are desired for the Total Force.
   3.1.2. Base/Unit Level Training. Addresses everyday stressors through local training. It
   includes the resilience skills that enable our Airmen, civilians, and family members to
   optimize performance of their day to day duties and responsibilities. Unit level training is
   often included in resilience building activities.
       3.1.2.1. IRST. IRST is based on the MRT course curriculum and consists of ten two-
       hour modules of instruction that represent ten core resilience skills.
          3.1.2.1.1. Each active duty Airman must complete four hours of IRST per calendar
          year and may be conducted in conjunction with or independently of Wingman Days
          and/or other CAF or resilience activities. Note: AFR/ANG Airmen may voluntarily
          participate in IRST and will, at a minimum, receive IRST familiarization in
          conjunction with Wingman Day activities. (T-3).
          3.1.2.1.2. IRST is conducted at the installation-level by a MRT or RTA. (T-3).
          3.1.2.1.3. UTMs will track active duty unit member IRST completion in ADLS using
          the codes specified in the AFPC/DPF Community Support Coordinator (CSC)
          Desktop Operating Guide for Comprehensive Airman Fitness (CAF). ANG UTMs
          will complete and track in ADLS.
          3.1.2.1.4. Commanders determine when and how the training is conducted and may
          tailor which MRT course modules are presented based on training needs and local
          needs.
          3.1.2.1.5. Key Spouses (Key Volunteer for the ANG) trained as RTAs will only use
          AF/A1S approved curriculum for assigned unit spouse resilience training.
       3.1.2.2. FTAC Resilience Training (FTACRT). FTACRT is designed for Airmen at their
       first duty station and is an eight hour block of resilience training included in the FTAC
       curriculum. Not applicable for AFR. Not applicable for ANG.
          3.1.2.2.1. FTACRT is delivered by a certified MRT. (T-3).
          3.1.2.2.2. FTACRT builds on foundational resilience principles and skills introduced
          during accessions training.
       3.1.2.3. Wingman Day.
          3.1.2.3.1. All Regular Air Force units will conduct a minimum of two Wingman
          Days per calendar year. (T-2).
10                                                                  AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


         3.1.2.3.2. AFR and ANG units will conduct a minimum of one Wingman Day per
         calendar year. (T-2).
         3.1.2.3.3. The AF IDS will provide periodic updates to existing and new Wingman
         Day topics and materials through the AF Portal or other electronic means.
         3.1.2.3.4. Wingman Day activities will emphasize informational awareness,
         accountability, team-building, and communication skills for selected topics.
  3.1.3. Developmental Education. CAF constructs and desired strategic outcomes will be
  included in all levels of PME; initial supervisory/leader levels will provide sufficient scope
  of material to provide frontline supervisors a working knowledge of CAF principles and how
  they relate to leading and taking care of Airmen. CAF developmental education will align
  with the career path of an Airman, resulting in a graduated increase in the level of
  understanding and knowledge over the career. CAF information will also be included in
  Commander courses, Executive Group development, and senior spouse orientations.
  3.1.4. MRT Course. In depth academic instruction designed to produce subject matter
  experts in core resilience skills across the four domains of fitness: mental, physical, social,
  and spiritual. Students are taught Air Force platform instructor delivery skills and are
  formally evaluated on their ability to execute and facilitate resilience training. Upon course
  completion, members will be certified as Master Resilience Trainers.
  3.1.5. Master Resilience Facilitators (MRF) Course. MRF course is a two-day course that
  provides a more in-depth understanding of CAF concepts, resilience skills, core research, and
  facilitation skills. MRFs assist the primary instructor of MRT courses by serving as small
  group facilitators and evaluators.
  3.1.6. RTA Training. RTA training is a three day resilience training course delivered locally
  by an MRT designed to produce additional local resources to assist instruction of resilience
  skills.
AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014                                                                     11


                                       Chapter 4

                               METRICS AND INDICATORS

4.1. Metrics and Indicators.
   4.1.1. CAF metrics/indicators derived from defined measures and self-reported data
   provided in community-based Air Force surveys will be used to provide commanders a view
   of the comprehensive fitness of an organization.
   4.1.2. The AF CAIB will determine relevant measures and data for reporting purposes for
   AF-wide CAF status and issues data call instructions through the AF IDS.




                                         GORDON O. TANNER, SES, USAF
                                         Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air
                                         Force (Manpower & Reserve Affairs)
 12                                                                 AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3405.01, Chairman’s Total Force Fitness
Framework, 1 Sep 2011
AFPD 90-5, Community Action Information Board, 15 Oct 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Air Force Follow-on Review 100930-060, Protecting the Force: Lessons from Fort Hood, 30
Sep 2010
Community Support Coordinator (CSC) Desktop Operating Guide for Comprehensive Airman
Fitness (CAF), 13 Mar 2014
Deployment Transition Center (DTC) Concept of Operations (CONOPS), 18 Feb 2014
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPC/DPW—Directorate of Air Expeditionary Force Operations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ART—Airman Resilience Training
CAF—Comprehensive Airman Fitness
CAIB—Community Action Information Board
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CSC—Community Support Coordinator
COMAFFOR—Commander, Air Force Forces
DoD—Department of Defense
DTC—Deployment Transition Center
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FTAC—First Term Airman Center
AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014                                                                            13


FTACRT—First Term Airman Center Resilience Training
IAW—In Accordance With
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
IRST—Individual Resilience Skills Training
MAJCOM—Major Command
MEFPAK—Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging
MRA—MEFPAK Responsible Agency
MRF—Master Resilience Facilitators
MRT—Master Resilience Trainers
NGB/A1—Directorate of Manpower, Personnel, and Services, National Guard Bureau
RTA—Resilience Training Assistants
SRI—Support and Resilience Inventory
UCA—Unit Climate Assessment
USC—United States Code
UTC—Unit Type Code
UTM—Unit Training Manager

Terms
Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR)—The single Air Force commander of an Air
Force Service component assigned or attached to a Joint Forces Command at the unified
combatant command, sub-unified combatant command, or joint task force (JTF) level.
Comprehensive Airman Fitness (CAF)—A holistic approach to fitness that includes fitness in
the mental, physical, social, and spiritual domains. In practical application, CAF provides an
integrated framework that encompasses and integrates many cross functional education/training
efforts, activities, and programs that contribute to mental, physical, social, and spiritual fitness.
Domain—A sphere of knowledge, influence, or activity.
Fitness—The relationship between one's behaviors and attitudes and their positive or negative
health outcomes that results in a state of complete mental, physical, social, and spiritual well-
being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.
Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK)—MEFPAK is the process for
developing and describing standard, predefined manpower and equipment force capabilities and
determining the deployment characteristics of these capabilities. These standard descriptions of
the units and elements are used for wartime, contingency, and force planning to all levels of
command.
Master Resilience Trainer (MRT)—An individual trained and certified by the Resilience
training process to deliver Resilience training.
 14                                                                    AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


MEFPAK Responsible Agency (MRA)—The MRA is an organization designated by a HAF
FAM to develop and maintain detailed data on a UTC for use throughout the Air Force.
Pilot Unit—A pilot unit is responsible for developing and maintaining standard manpower and
or logistics detail for each UTC for which it has been assigned responsibility. Each and every
UTC that has been approved and registered in the MEFPAK will have a Pilot Unit assigned.
Resilience—The ability to withstand, recover, and grow in the face of stressors and changing
demands.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A potential capability focused on accomplishment of a specific
mission that the military service provides. It can consist of manpower force element only,
equipment only, or both manpower and equipment.
Well-being—The state of being happy, healthy, or prosperous.
Wellness—A multidimensional state of being describing the existence of positive physical,
mental, social, and spiritual fitness in an individual as exemplified by quality of life and a sense
of well-being.
Wingman Concept—A culture of Airmen taking care of Airmen whether in uniform or not.
Wingman—A term used to describe one individual looking out for another, anticipating
difficulties and responding to maintain the welfare of a fellow Wingman. The wingman's role is
to add an element of mutual support that aids situational awareness and decision making,
increasing the ability to successfully prevent or resolve difficulties.
AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014                                                                             15


                                         Attachment 2
                         CAF DOMAINS AND LINES OF EFFORT

Table A2.1. CAF Domains.
              A                                                B

           Domain                                           Tenets

 Mental Fitness - The         Awareness - Self-awareness is broadly defined as the self-
 ability to effectively cope  descriptions a person ascribes to oneself that influence one’s
 with unique mental           actual behavior, motivation to initiate or disrupt activities, and
 stressors and challenges.    feelings about oneself. Individuals must also have situational
                              awareness, or knowledge of what is going on around them for
                              accurately interpreting and attending to appropriate cues in
                              the environment.
                              Adaptability - Ease of adapting to changes associated with
                              military life, including flexible roles within the family.
                              Decision Making – Thoughts, attitudes, and behaviors used
                              for evaluating and choosing courses of action to solve a
                              problem or reach a goal and include problem solving, goal
                              setting adaptive thinking and intuitive thinking. Decision
                              making factors include problem solving, goal setting, adaptive
                              thinking, and intuitive thinking.
                              Positive Thinking - Information processing, applying
                              knowledge, and changing preferences through restructuring,
                              positive reframing, making sense out of a situation, flexibility,
                              reappraisal, refocusing, having positive outcome expectations,
                              a positive outlook, and psychological preparation.
 Physical Fitness - The       Endurance - The body’s ability to continually accomplish the
 ability to adopt and sustain same task in a repetitive fashion.
 healthy behaviors needed     Recovery - Practices that restore energy and counterbalance
 to enhance health and well- stress that can offset adverse mood and deteriorating
 being.                       performance.
                              Nutrition - The provision and consumption of food in
                              quantities, quality, and proportions sufficient to promote
                              optimal physical performance and to protect against disease
                              and/or injury.
                              Strength - Ability to generate force and power, thus lowering
                              the relative work required to complete desired objectives.
 Social Fitness - The ability Communication - The exchange of thoughts, opinions, or
 to engage in healthy social information, including problem-solving and relationship
 networks that promote        management.
 overall well-being and       Connectedness - The quality and number of connections with
 optimal performance.         other people in the community; includes connections with a
                              place or people of that place; aspects include commitment,
16                                                                   AFI90-506 2 APRIL 2014


                                structure, roles, responsibility, and communication.
                                Social Support - Perceiving that comfort is available from
                                (and can be provided to) others, including emotional, tangible,
                                instrumental, informational, and spiritual support.
                                Teamwork - Work coordination among team members,
                                including flexibility.
Spiritual Fitness - The         Core Values - Principles that guide an organization's or a
ability to adhere to beliefs,   person’s internal conduct as well as its relationship with the
principles, or values           external world.
needed to persevere and         Perseverance - Steady persistence in a course of action, a
prevail in accomplishing        purpose, a state, etc., especially in spite of difficulties,
missions.                       obstacles, or discouragement.
                                Perspective - How one views situations, facts, etc. and judges
                                their relative importance.
                                Purpose - The reason for which one exists.
