                              DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                              HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                           WASHINGTON, DC




                                                                              AFI90-1602_AFGM2014-01
                                                                                       5 November 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/DRUs/ANG

FROM: HQ USAF/A9
      1570 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330-1570

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum on the Data Collection, Development, and
         Management in Support of Strategic Analysis and the Analytic Agenda

Accessibility: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. This
AF Guidance Memorandum clarifies implementation of AFI 90-1602, Data Collection,
Development, and Management in Support of Strategic Analysis and the Analytic Agenda. To the
extent its directions are inconsistent with other AF publications; the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. This Memorandum and attached Guidance apply to all AF organizations, Air National Guard and
Air Force Reserve.

3. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are maintained
IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

1. This Memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this Memorandum,
or upon release the updated AFI incorporating this guidance, whichever is earlier.

                                                JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN, PhD, SES, USAF
                                                Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and
                                                Lessons Learned

Attachment:
Guidance Changes



                                                    1
                                        Attachment 1


1. The changes outlined below are for immediate implementation pending a rewrite of AFI 90-
   1602, Data Collection, Development, and Management in Support of Strategic Analysis and
   the Analytic Agenda. The update of this AFI has been delayed while OSD updates DoDI
   8260.02, Implementation of Data Collection, Development, and Management for Strategic
   Analyses.

2. Overview. AFI 90-1602 describes the Air Force process and assigns appropriate roles and
   responsibilities associated with DoDI 8260.01 compliance. AFI 90-1602 has not been
   updated since July 7, 2011 when DoDD 8260.05 superseded and cancelled the requirement
   for DoDI 8260.01, Support for Strategic Analysis (SAA). Products and procedures described
   in the original DoDI 8260.01 and DoDI 8260.02 are being re-defined and will be
   institutionalized in an updated DoDI 8260.02.

3. This AFGM eliminates the Support for Analysis Synchronization Committee and the Air
   Force Requirements Planning Workshop. Synchronizing and consolidating Air Force
   positions on analytic issues is being accomplished via other forums.

4. Terminology.

   a. Due to organization changes all references to the “OSD Office of Program Analysis and
      Evaluation (OSD (PA&E))” should refer to “OSD Office of Cost Assessment & Program
      Evaluation ((OSD (CAPE))” unless otherwise noted

   b. All references to the “Analytic Agenda” should be replaced with “Support for Strategic
      Analyses.”

   c. All references to the “Joint Analytic Data Management Steering Committee (JADM SC)”
      should be replaced with “Support for Strategic Analysis Steering Committee (SSA SC).”

   d. All references to the “Joint Analytic Data Management Integrated Process Team (JADM
      IPT)” should be replaced with “Support for Strategic Analysis O-6 Working Group (SSA
      O-6 WG)”

   e. All references to the term “analytic baseline” should be replaced with the more general
      term “SSA products.”

   f. All references to the term “Air Force Analytic Community” or “AFAC” should be
      replaced with “Analysis, Assessments, and Lessons Learned” or “A2L2.”

   g. With the introduction of the Integrated Security Constructs (ISCs), new terminology was
      introduced with regard to SSA products. The term “Summary View (SV)” is
      synonymous with the “Defense Planning Scenario (DPS).” The term “Macro View
      (MV)” is synonymous with the Multi-Service Force Deployment (MSFD).” The term
      “Detailed View (DV)” is synonymous with “Analytic Baseline (AB)”.



                                               2
BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-1602
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               18 AUGUST 2009

                                                                            Special Management

                                               DATA COLLECTION, DEVELOPMENT, AND
                                                        MANAGEMENT IN SUPPORT OF
                                                       STRATEGIC ANALYSIS AND THE
                                                                 ANALYTIC AGENDA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A9IB                                           Certified by: AF/A9I (Mr. Balf Callaway)
                                                                                      Pages: 25



This instruction implements and supports DOD Instruction 8260.01, Support for Strategic
Analysis, DOD Instruction 8260.2, Implementation of Data Collection, Development, and
Management for Strategic Analysis, and Air Force Policy Directive 90-16, Air Force Studies,
Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned. This instruction interfaces with Air Force Policy
Directive 90-11, Strategic Planning System. The instruction defines and delineates the roles and
responsibilities regarding the development of DOD analytical baselines and the conduct of
associated strategic studies performed by the Air Force in support of the Analytic Agenda. It
applies to all Air Force organizations and personnel involved in the process of strategic analysis
including all Air Force Components: Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National
Guard. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.          Recommendation for Change of
Publication: refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Major commands, field operating agencies, and direct reporting units may supplement this
instruction. Forward one copy of the proposed supplement to the higher headquarters functional
OPR for review and coordination before publishing.

See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references, abbreviations, acronyms and terms.
2                                                                                             AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


Chapter 1—OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVES                                                                                                           3
       1.1.   Overview and Philosophy of Air Force support to the Analytic Agenda and Strategic
              Analyses. ................................................................................................................    3
       1.2.   The Analytical Baseline Process. ...........................................................................                  3
Figure 1.1.   Analytical Baseline Development Path. ................................................................                        5
Figure 1.2.   Analytical Agenda Implementing Environment. ...................................................                               6
       1.3.   The Air Force Objectives for Data Collection, Development, and Management for
              Strategic Analyses are as follows: .........................................................................                  6

Chapter 2—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                  8
       2.1.   AF/A9. ...................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   AF/A8. ...................................................................................................................   10
       2.3.   AF/A4/7. ................................................................................................................    11
       2.4.   AF/A2. ...................................................................................................................   11
       2.5.   AF/A3/5. ................................................................................................................    12
       2.6.   AF/A1. ...................................................................................................................   12
       2.7.   AF/A10. .................................................................................................................    12
       2.8.   Major Commands will: ..........................................................................................              13
       2.9.   AFAC. ....................................................................................................................   13

Chapter 3—PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS                                                                                                     14
       3.1.   Prescribed Forms. ..................................................................................................         14
       3.2.   Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................         14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             15

Attachment 2—AIR FORCE SUPPORT TO THE ANALYTICAL BASELINE PROCESS                                                                          18

Attachment 3—Table A3.1. DATA SOURCES.                                                                                                     24
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                         3



                                            Chapter 1

                               OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVES

1.1. Overview and Philosophy of Air Force support to the Analytic Agenda and Strategic
Analyses. The Air Force plays a key role in the Department of Defense conduct of Strategic
Analyses. These analyses are performed in joint and collaborative environments, are
synchronized with the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES)
cycles and form the key pillars in supporting both known and emerging needs of the
Department’s top leadership. Within this process, appropriate, up-to-date, traceable, and
integrated baselines are developed using approved scenarios. It is essential that these “analytical
baselines” form the starting point for all strategic analyses and all studies in order to accurately
inform Air Force requirements and priorities. This AFI defines and delineates the roles and
responsibilities in order to seamlessly and efficiently present and support Air Force capabilities,
requirements and priorities in the joint and Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD)
environment. It also establishes the procedures, process, and management guidelines for the
collection, development, and management of data used in support of the Analytic Agenda and
associated strategic analyses performed by the Air Force and provided to outside agencies. In
order to assure the joint warfighter has the breadth of joint capabilities available, the USAF must
provide a focused and unified analytic foundation to inform senior Air Force leaders’ decisions
and to support the development and use of DOD’s analytical baselines.
1.2. The Analytical Baseline Process. The Undersecretary of Defense, Policy (USD (P)) issues
Defense Planning Scenarios (DPS) which include scenario-planning factors such as warning
time, concurrency, and assumed postures of engagement for use in strategic analyses. The
combatant commands (COCOMs) develop analytical baselines for use in strategic analyses of
current-year forces. The Joint Staff, Force Structure, Resources, and Assessment Directorate
(J-8) as well as the OSD Office of Program Analysis and Evaluation (OSD (PA&E)) in
conjunction with the Services, develop baselines for use in strategic analyses of future-year
forces. These baselines are made available to the DOD components through the Joint Data
Support (JDS) office of OSD (PA&E). OSD (PA&E) has established the Joint Analytic Data
Management Steering Committee (JADM SC) to oversee both the generation of analytical
baselines in support of the analytic agenda process and compliance with DOD policy on
collecting, disseminating, and maintaining data for strategic analyses. The JADM SC assists the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and OSD (PA&E) in developing analytical baselines.
Specifically, the Committee facilitates the generation and collection of data; advises on the
development, management, and dissemination of baselines for strategic analyses; and proposes
solutions to data issues raised by JADM SC members. The Director, Studies & Analyses,
Assessments, and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) represents the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF)
on the JADM SC. OSD (PA&E) also established JDS as the executive agent to facilitate
management of analytical baselines and their associated data. This AFI describes the process by
which the AF will fulfill its service responsibility to support the development of analytical
baselines and their associated data. It also delineates the specific roles and responsibilities of
various Headquarters (HQ) USAF elements.
   1.2.1. The Analytical Baselines Roadmap is a JADM SC developed plan, which establishes
   priorities for development of analytical baselines based upon USD (P) developed and
4                                                                 AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


    prioritized scenarios. An analytical baseline is comprised of a scenario, Concept of
    Operations (CONOPS), and integrated data used by the DOD components as a foundation for
    strategic analyses. Figure 1.1 illustrates the steps and interim products used to develop an
    analytical baseline. This AFI does not address non-Air Force agency responsibilities in the
    Analytical Baseline Development process.
    1.2.2. In the context of this AFI, the DPS, the Multi-Service Force Deployment (MSFD) and
    the data/model portion of the analytical baseline are discussed separately. Figure 1.2
    illustrates the relationships between these documents. Ideally, an analytical baseline is
    developed using the process outlined in Figure 1.1, and includes the corresponding DPS &
    MSFD. In rare prescribed circumstances (and only at the discretion of the JADM SC), it may
    be possible to develop an analytical baseline without an existing DPS and/or MSFD.
    1.2.3. The OSD (PA&E) desired end-state is five to six current-year and seven to nine
    future-year analytical baselines spanning the end of the Future Year Defense Program
    (FYDP) through 20 years, which the DOD components shall use as a starting point for
    analyses supporting planning, programming, and acquisition efforts. Consistent with the
    policies established by the JADM SC, future-year baselines will be developed transparently
    and collaboratively by a joint analytical baseline development team led by the Joint Staff (J-
    8) for near and mid-term efforts or OSD (PA&E) for longer-term efforts, as appropriate.
    Analytical baselines should be available in time to support analyses conducted for the
    Department’s resource allocation process, but may require modification to accommodate
    major military, budgetary, or political events. USD (P), the Joint Staff and OSD (PA&E)
    review these baselines annually for relevance and currency, and plan to update them at least
    once every 24 months. Components may conduct excursions from these baselines to provide
    decision support internal to their organizations.
    1.2.4. The JDS office, as analytical baseline executive agent for OSD (PA&E), provides
    support for the identification, collection, development (including verification and validation),
    management, and dissemination of data sets and associated analytical baselines. JDS works
    with the data providers to collect and store data, metadata, assumptions, scenario contexts,
    and other information needed for the analytical baselines and works with the DOD
    components to ensure these groups use the data in an appropriate manner. JDS manages the
    data repository for the analytical baselines and supporting data, including the preparation and
    archiving of analytical baseline data sets and associated metadata used in strategic analyses
    conducted by the DOD components. These data sets are available on the JDS SIPRNET web
    page at https://jds.pae.osd.smil.mil/.
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                                                     5


Figure 1.1. Analytical Baseline Development Path.


                          Roadmap to a Baseline
  Foundation in National
        Strategy
  National Security Strategy
  National Military Strategy     GEF                         CURRENT
         Joint Vision
 Joint Concept of Operations             OPLANS
                                                               YEAR
                                         CONOPS

                                                     DIA Threat
                 GDF
                          DPS
                                                             Environment

                               MSFD                                   Current Forces, Units,
                                                                      and Equipment (FUE)
                                  Environment
                                                                                Characteristics and
            FUTURE               Future Forces, Units,
                                                                                Performance (C&P)
                                 and Equipment (FUE)
             YEAR
                                                Characteristics and                            Baseline Development
                                                Performance (C&P)
                                                                                                        Current Year
                                                                                                         Baselines
                                                   Baseline Development

                                                                       Future Year                    “Warm” & “Available”
                                                                        Baselines                        Baselines For
                                                                                                      • GDF/GEF/PDM Studies
                                                                                                      • Quick Look Studies
                                                                                                      • Component Studies



   1.2.5. Joint analytical baseline development teams establish plans for constructing the
   analytical baselines, including identifying objectives, timelines, broad data requirements, etc.
   In developing the baselines, the teams employ models and simulations used within the
   Department of Defense for strategic analyses. Data specifications should focus on the needs
   of these models and simulations. The DOD components provide all requested data that is
   within their capability to generate via new or existing databases and processes. They should
   notify the OSD (PA&E) of any significant data issues through the appropriate JADM SC
   member. To conserve the Department's resources, U.S. and non-U.S. data-collection
   activities should make use of existing data-collection vehicles and routine production cycles
   whenever possible.
   1.2.6. In the analytic agenda process, the objective of the Air Force approach is to develop
   baselines that appropriately inform Air Force strategy and associated strategic analyses. The
   goal of Air Force participation in joint analytical baseline development teams is to ensure Air
   Force doctrine and CONOPS are correctly represented and that Air Force systems, forces and
   capabilities are correctly portrayed in the context of the model(s) or tool(s) being used.
   1.2.7. As part of its objective to mature Air Force-developed scenarios into Service
   sponsored analytical baselines, the Air Force will support the DOD plan to revise existing
   analytical baselines and develop new baselines on a schedule that supports keeping them
   relevant and current as described in subparagraph 1.2.5 above. The respective OPRs for Air
   Force-provided data (see Table A3.1) will review the JDS data repository holdings and
6                                                                              AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


    update the data and metadata when events warrant such changes. Assessment and revision of
    data are particularly important upon receipt of a revised threat assessment (normally every 24
    months but in some cases, more frequently).

Figure 1.2. Analytical Agenda Implementing Environment.
                         MSFD Development                     FYABs
                            AF Lead: A9                    AF Lead: A9
                               CONOPS                       Analytical
                                Forces                      Baselines
      DPS Development
                                             A9 Lead
                                            A8 Assists                           DoD/Joint
        AF Lead: A8                                                         Collaborative Studies
             Scenarios                                                      AF Representative: A9
                                A8/A9 partnership ensuring AF             Scenarios, CONOPS,
                                  equities are represented                   Forces, Data
                                 throughout the AA process
             Defense                                                                    Provides
             Strategy                DoD Senior                                       foundational
                                     Leadership                                         insights
        Focuses

                                      A8 Lead
                                     A9 Assists
                   Informs                                                 Insights from DoD Studies based
                                                                Informs
       PPBE                                                                on FYABs … and insights from
      Process                                                              Component FYAB excursions



1.3. The Air Force Objectives for Data Collection, Development, and Management for
Strategic Analyses are as follows:
    1.3.1. Support the generation and collection of data, as well as the development of analytical
    baselines, for strategic analyses.
    1.3.2. Implement procedures to generate, review, coordinate and approve data for
    development of analytical baselines.
    1.3.3. Participate in the development and maintenance of analytical baselines, ensuring data
    are applied in the correct context to support each baseline developed.
    1.3.4. Provide timely, integrated, and validated Air Force data necessary to develop
    analytical baselines, based on content identified by the study/development team lead.
    1.3.5. Use analytical baselines as the starting point for strategic analyses, in accordance with
    Air Force requirements and priorities. Although, the use of analytical baseline scenarios for
    studies, analyses and wargaming related to the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), the
    Guidance for Development of the Force (GDF), Guidance for Employment of the Force
    (GEF), Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan (JSCP), and the PPBES is essential, this instruction
    does not constrain scenario development to only such studies, analyses, or wargames.
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                   7


  1.3.6. Oversee and facilitate the release of data and analytical baselines to Air Force
  organizations through JDS and coordinate on the release of analytical baselines to other DOD
  components.
  1.3.7. Provide AF input to the Joint Staff and USD (P) on scenarios and ensure analytical
  baselines are relevant to inform USAF strategic plans and priorities.
  1.3.8. Introduce Air Force developed scenarios as Service-sponsored and developed
  analytical baselines.
  1.3.9. Develop a process for conducting strategic analyses in those instances where no
  appropriate analytical baselines currently exist.
  1.3.10. Assist the Joint Staff in developing CONOPS in the MSFD documents. These
  CONOPS will apply AF and DOD capabilities against the Defense Planning Scenarios to
  generate baseline force lists for the MSFD documents.
8                                                               AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


                                           Chapter 2

                                    RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. AF/A9. AF/A9 is the Secretary of the Air Force’s representative to the JADM SC, and Air
Force office with primary responsibility for the Analytic Agenda as outlined in DODI 8260.01.
In this role AF/A9 is also the service lead for: (1) the development and production of MSFD
products, and (2) service participation in the development and production of analytical baselines
(as described in DODI 8260.01 and DODI 8260.2). AF/A9 represents the Air Force during joint
analytic assessments. As such, AF/A9 is the AF OPR for orchestrating the Air Force’s role in
DOD’s analytic community to ensure that AF capabilities and concepts of operations are
accurately reflected in the DOD Analytic Agenda, analytical baselines and strategic analyses and
has distinct responsibilities in the following areas:
    2.1.1. On JADM SC:
       2.1.1.1. Represents the SECAF and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) in matters
       relevant to the development of the Analytic Agenda and associated analytical baselines.
       2.1.1.2. Solicits Air Force representatives to serve on joint analytical baseline
       development teams and collaborative DOD studies.
       2.1.1.3. Notifies OSD (PA&E) and Joint Staff J-8 of any significant issues impacting the
       development of joint analytical baselines.
       2.1.1.4. Approves the release of analytical baselines within the Air Force through JDS.
       2.1.1.5. Coordinates with the Joint Staff or OSD (PA&E), as appropriate, concerning the
       release of analytical baselines to organizations not represented on the JADM SC.
       2.1.1.6. Coordinates with Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs
       (AF/A8) on AF related aspects of the DPS.
    2.1.2. In MSFD Development and Production:
       2.1.2.1. Serves as Air Force lead for MSFD conferences.
       2.1.2.2. Coordinates with HQ USAF, Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and other Air
       Force organizations on representation and participation at MSFD conferences.
       2.1.2.3. Collaborates with AF/A8 to develop and obtain concurrence on terms of
       reference and on the Air Force position and assumptions for joint war fight assessments
       including Operational Availability studies.
       2.1.2.4. Collaborates with AF/A8 to develop the Air Force position on CONOPS for
       joint war fight assessments including Operational Availability studies.
       2.1.2.5. Coordinates all Air Force inputs on MSFD products and acts as the focal point
       between the HQ USAF and outside agencies (e.g., USD(P), OSD (PA&E), and the Joint
       Staff) for development and coordination of the MSFD products.
       2.1.2.6. Coordinates the HQ USAF review of draft MSFD documents and consolidates
       Air Force inputs.
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                   9


     2.1.2.7. Coordinates with National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC)
     through/in conjunction with Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, &
     Reconnaissance (AF/A2) on issues concerning the Joint Country Forces Assessment
     (JCOFA), as this product is the definitive source for threat data in the DPS and MSFD
     documents (see A2.5)
     2.1.2.8. Establishes and chairs the Air Force Analytic Agenda Synchronization
     Committee. Meetings will be held quarterly. The objectives of the synchronization
     committee are to create a consolidated Air Force position on analytic agenda issues and
     chart a unified path to provide a common starting point and framework for strategic level
     analyses that meets Air Force needs. Committee members will be the respective
     Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff of AF/A2, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, &
     Requirements (AF/A3/5), Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations, & Mission
     Support (AF/A4/7), Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1) and
     AF/A8 and the Deputy Assistant Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear
     Integration (AF/A10). A9 will establish coordinating bodies at the AO level and at
     intermediate O-6 levels before presenting Analytic Agenda issues to the General Officer
     level.
     2.1.2.9. Coordinates with all synchronization committee members on all associated
     activities of the Air Force Analytic Agenda Synchronization Committee.
  2.1.3. In Analytical baselines/Collaborative DOD Studies:
     2.1.3.1. Represents the Air Force during joint analytic assessments.
     2.1.3.2. Coordinates with appropriate Air Force organizations on representation and
     participation.
     2.1.3.3. Reviews the appropriate DPS and MSFD products to determine if updates are
     required. Recommended updates to DPS will be coordinated with AF/A8.
     2.1.3.4. Collaborates with AF/A8 to develop and obtain concurrence on terms of
     reference and on the Air Force position and assumptions for joint war fight assessments
     including Operational Availability studies.
     2.1.3.5. Leads the AF team developing the air, space and cyberspace portions of the
     MSFD. Collaborates with AF/A8 to develop the Air Force position and CONOPS and
     ensures the CONOPS is coordinated among all appropriate HQ USAF organizations.
     2.1.3.6. Leads the development of data for Forces, Units and Equipment (FUE),
     including their Characteristics and Performance Data (C&P) as well as Combat
     Support/Combat Service Support (CS/CSS) or Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) and
     sustainment requirements.
     2.1.3.7. Coordinates all Air Force inputs and acts as the focal point between the HQ
     USAF and outside agencies (e.g., USD (P), OSD (PA&E), and the Joint Staff) for
     development and coordination of the analytical baseline / study products with the
     exception of the DPS.
     2.1.3.8. Coordinates with AF/A8 at the AO, O-6 and General Officer levels on all
     aspects of the Analytic Agenda including CONOPS development, metric development,
     war fight analysis and reviews.
10                                                                AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


        2.1.3.9. Coordinates the HQ USAF review of draft analytical baseline/study products and
        results. Consolidates Air Force inputs so that the Air Force speaks with one voice and
        provides a consistent position on analytic issues.
     2.1.4. In the Air Force Analytic Community (AFAC):
        2.1.4.1. Leads the Air Force Analytic Community as defined in the AFAC charter.
        2.1.4.2. Develops/coordinates a forum with Air Force analytic organizations to discuss
        the tactical and operational data issues impacting AF, Joint and OSD studies and
        analyses. This forum provides an avenue for the AFAC to identify data and process
        issues. The forum creates a collaborative environment between the different analytic
        communities in terms of using the DPS, MSFD, and Analytical baselines. Through this
        forum, AF/A9 supplies information back to the AF analytic community on issues and
        items of interest from the JADM Steering Committee meetings as well as their resolution.
        2.1.4.3. Introduces, facilitates, and champions Air Force-developed scenarios as potential
        analytical baselines.
        2.1.4.4. Sponsors the Air Force Scenario Requirements Planning Workshop (AFSRPW).
        2.1.4.5. Ensures that analytical baselines are used as the starting point for strategic
        analyses.
        2.1.4.6. Works with JDS to facilitate the release of data and analytical baselines to Air
        Force organizations. Coordinates with JDS on the release of analytical baselines to other
        DOD components.
        2.1.4.7. Provides strategic analysis and analytical support for Air Force Annual Planning and
        Programming Guidance (APPG) including force planning assumptions, the Air Force
        Strategic Assessment, current and future force structure options including the Planning
        Force, the Programmed Force and other force structure options with respect to meeting
        the operational objectives of designated scenarios and vignettes.
2.2. AF/A8. AF/A8 is the primary advisor to SECAF, CSAF, and the Air Force Council for
strategic planning and programming. AF/A8 is the primary agent on the Air Staff responsible for
strategic planning, establishing force planning assumptions, conducting strategic assessments
and developing force structure options. AF/A8 defines the Air Force position on and leads
participation in development of OSD and joint planning guidance (e.g., NSS, NDS, NMS, GDF,
and GEF) as well as DPS. AF/A8 collaborates with A9 to define the Air Force position on terms
of reference, assumptions and CONOPS for joint war fight assessments and Operational
Availability studies. The AF/A8 Director of Strategic Planning develops and updates the Air
Force Vision, the Air Force Strategic Plan, and the APPG, as well as the Planning Force. In
addition, AF/A8 is the Air Force lead agency for the development of DPS, which is also the first
phase of analytical baseline development. AF/A8 is responsible for coordinating all Air Force
inputs on the DPS and acts as the single focal point between the HQ USAF, USD (P), OSD
(PA&E) and the Joint Staff. In this capacity, and in collaboration with AF/A9, AF/A8 shall:
     2.2.1. Represent the SECAF and CSAF in matters relevant to the development of the DPS.
     2.2.2. Collaborate with appropriate AF/A2, AF/A3/5, AF/A4/7, AF/A9 divisions and Service
     COCOM representatives on warfighting CONOPS, basing, and logistics support issues.
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                      11


   2.2.3. Coordinate with appropriate Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
   (SAF/AQ), AF/A3/5, and other AF/A8 and AF/A9 divisions on future forces and capabilities.
   2.2.4. Coordinate with AF/A9 on all relevant aspects of the DPS.
   2.2.5. Collaborate with AF/A9 to provide support for the AFSRPW. This support includes,
   but is not limited to providing issues and information from the Strategic Plan for inclusion in
   the MSFD process. See Paragraph A2.2 for a description of the purpose and objectives of the
   AFSRPW.
   2.2.6. Provide subject matter experts to participate in and support MSFD conferences as
   required.
   2.2.7. Participate in the Air Force Analytic Agenda Synchronization Committee.
   2.2.8. Assist AF/A9 in compiling data for forces, units and equipment (FUE), to include
   their characteristics and performance (C&P) data as well as combat support/combat service
   support (CS/CSS) or expeditionary combat support (ECS) and sustainment requirements for
   use in analytical baselines.
   2.2.9. Collaborate with AF/A9 to develop the Air Force position on terms of reference,
   scenario and study assumptions for joint war fight assessments to ensure consistency with
   OSD guidance on the Force Planning Construct and associated force planning assumptions.
   2.2.10. Participate in all working groups for Analytic Agenda/Collaborative DOD studies.
   They will attend O-6 and Senior Leader reviews as appropriate.
   2.2.11. Coordinate on all study products and results to ensure that they maintain alignment
   with Air Force strategy. AF/A8 will have the lead for any use of study results in follow-on
   taskers regarding strategic discussions in coordination with A9.
2.3. AF/A4/7. AF/A4 is the Air Force lead agency for logistics readiness. In this capacity,
AF/A4 is responsible for developing: policy and guidance in support of Air Force Agile Combat
Support (ACS), policy and guidance on movement/transportation operations, policy and
guidance on distribution and sustainment operations, policy guidance to support Air Force
deployment objectives, and policy guidance on aircraft maintenance operations. AF/A7 is the
Air Force lead agency for Civil Engineering and is responsible for providing bases, infrastructure
and facilities necessary to support the global engagement of air, space, and cyberspace forces
across the spectrum of conflict. AF/A7 is also responsible for promulgating Civil Engineer
policy and guidance to ensure the installations, infrastructure, facilities, housing, and
environment issues support air and space forces operations. As such, AF/A4/7 shall:
   2.3.1. Provide subject matter experts and reach back support as required for Air Force
   representatives attending MSFD conferences, and throughout joint analyses/studies requiring
   logistics expertise and/or basing and infrastructure issues.
   2.3.2. Provide data and support, as requested, to the analytical baseline development teams
   engaged in the CONOPS development and analysis process.
   2.3.3. Participate in all associated activities of the Air Force Analytic Agenda
   Synchronization Committee.
2.4. AF/A2. AF/A2 is responsible for policy formulation, planning, evaluation, oversight, and
leadership of Air Force intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities. AF/A2 shall:
12                                                                 AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


     2.4.1. Provide subject matter experts to participate in and support MSFD conferences as
     required.
     2.4.2. Provide subject matter expertise on Joint Capability Areas (JCAs), Joint Warfighting
     CONOPS and experimentation in support of analytic initiatives.
     2.4.3. Provide data and support, as requested, to the analytical baseline development teams
     in the CONOPS development and analysis.
     2.4.4. Coordinate with NASIC on issues concerning the JCOFAs for threat data (see sub
     paragraph 2.1.2.7).
     2.4.5. Participate in associated activities of the Air Force Analytic Agenda Synchronization
     Committee.
2.5. AF/A3/5. AF/A3 is responsible for policy, guidance and oversight of AF air, space,
cyberspace and weather operations, training and sourcing. AF/A5 is responsible for operational
strategy and doctrine, operational politico-military analysis, capabilities assessments and war and
mobilization planning. AF/A3/5 shall:
     2.5.1. Provide subject matter experts to participate in and support MSFD conferences as
     required.
     2.5.2. Provide subject matter expertise on Joint Capability Areas (JCAs), Joint Warfighting
     CONOPS and experimentation in support of analytic initiatives.
     2.5.3. Provide data and support, as requested, to the analytical baseline development teams
     in the CONOPS development and analysis.
     2.5.4. Integrate the use of analytical baselines to extent feasible in future wargames.
     2.5.5. Participate in associated activities of the Air Force Analytic Agenda Synchronization
     Committee.
2.6. AF/A1. AF/A1 is the Air Force lead agency for manpower and personnel related
information to include baselines utilizing manpower authorizations for current and future year
programming or personnel assignment and deployment information. AF/A1shall:
     2.6.1. Provide subject matter experts to participate in and support MSFD conferences as
     required.
     2.6.2. Provide data and support, as requested, to the analytical baseline development teams
     in the CONOPS development and analysis.
     2.6.3. Participate in associated activities of the Air Force Analytic Agenda Synchronization
     Committee.
2.7. AF/A10. AF/A10 is responsible for the synchronization and integration of all nuclear-
related issues across the USAF nuclear enterprise and collaborates with Headquarters Air Force,
Major Commands and joint, departmental and national agency mission partners to further
nuclear focus by ensuring corporate advocacy and full spectrum stewardship of nuclear
capabilities. AF/A10 shall:
     2.7.1. Provide subject matter experts to participate in and support MSFD conferences as
     required.
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                        13


   2.7.2. Provide subject matter expertise on Joint Capability Areas (JCAs), Joint War-fighting
   CONOPS and experimentation in support of strategic analytic initiatives.
   2.7.3. Provide data and support, as requested, to the analytical baseline development teams
   in the CONOPS development and analysis.
   2.7.4. Integrate the use of analytical baselines to extent feasible in future war-games.
   2.7.5. Participate in associated activities of the Air Force Analytic Agenda Synchronization
   Committee.
2.8. Major Commands will:
   2.8.1. Provide data necessary for the development of the MSFD and analytical baselines as
   required. The HQ USAF is the definitive source for this Air Force data and therefore the
   authority for release of this information to DOD and other government organizations outside
   the Air Force. Therefore, action officers must be cognizant that data they provide to AF/A9
   for release to JDS and inclusion as part of an MSFD and/or analytical baseline are considered
   the official Air Force position. It is critical that action officers have appropriate approval at
   their MAJCOMs before providing data for release to AF/A9 (see Paragraph A2.11 for further
   information on data types).
   2.8.2. Provide appropriate subject matter experts to participate in and support MSFD
   conferences as required. Based upon the scenario and its timeframe, AF/A9 will determine
   which subject matter experts are required and under what circumstances. AF/A9 will provide
   notification of these support requirements to the appropriate MAJCOM staff in a timely
   manner.
2.9. AFAC. The AFAC is a community of Air Force organizations that collaborates on analytic
methodologies and shares insights in analyses they perform. The membership consists of
analytic organizations from the HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, Numbered Air Forces (NAFs), Direct
Reporting Units (DRUs) and Field Operating Agencies (FOAs). The AFAC Steering Group (see
Paragraph A2.1) leads the AFAC, and consists of the member organization leaders. The
Director, AF/A9 chairs the AFAC Steering Group. AFAC members in the context of this AFI
shall:
   2.9.1. Participate in the Air Force Scenario Requirements Planning Workshop (AFSRPW,
   see Paragraph A2.2).
   2.9.2. Participate in the development and nomination of Air Force Analytical Baselines.
14                                                         AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


                                       Chapter 3

                       PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS

3.1. Prescribed Forms. None.

3.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                           JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN, PhD, SES
                           Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                               15


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD Instruction 8260.01, Support for Strategic Analysis, January 11, 2007
DOD Directive 5105.18, DOD Committee Management Program, February 8, 1999
DOD Directive 5105.18/Air Force Supplement, DOD Committee Management Program, June
30, 1999
DOD Directive 8320.2, Data Sharing in a Net-Centric Department of Defense, December 2,
2004
DOD 8910.1-M, DOD Procedures for Management of Information Requirements, June 30, 1998
DOD Instruction 5000.61, DOD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation, and
Accreditation, May 13, 2003
DOD Instruction 8260.2, Implementation of Data Collection, Development, and Management for
Strategic Analysis, January 21, 2003
Air Force Policy Directive 90-16, Air Force Studies, Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons
Learned, June 4, 2008
Air Force Policy Directive 90-11, Strategic Planning System, March 26, 2009
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, March 3, 2008
(U) Current Year Analytical Baseline Terms of Reference (S), 08 September 2003
Air Force Analytic Community Steering Group (AFAC SG) Charter, 01 June 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
NOTE: Additional abbreviations, acronyms and terms can be found in the Joint Publication 1-
02, "DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
ABDT— Analytical Baseline Development Team
ABIDES— Automated Budget Interactive Data Environment System
AFAC— Air Force Analytic Community
AFGSC— Air Force Global Strike Command
C&P (data)— Characteristics and Performance Data
CONOPS— Concept of Operations
CS/CSS— Combat Support/Combat Service Support
DCAPES— Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments
DPS— Defense Planning Scenario
DRU— Direct Reporting Unit
ECS— Expeditionary Combat Support
16                                                           AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


FOA— Field Operating Agency
FUE— Forces, Units and Equipment
FYAB— Future-Year Analytical Baseline
FYDP— Future Years Defense Program
GDF—- Guidance for Development of the Force
GEF—- Guidance for Employment of the Force
JADM IPT— Joint Analytic Data Management Integrated Process Team.
JADM SC— Joint Analytic Data Management Steering Committee (see Paragraph 1.1)
JCA(s)— Joint Capability Area(s)
JCOFA— Joint Country Forces Assessment
JDS— Joint Data Support Office
JSCP— Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan
MilPDS— Military Personnel Data System
MPES— Manpower Programming and Execution System
MSFD— Multi-Service Force Deployment
NASIC— National Air and Space Intelligence Center
OCR— Office of Coordinating Responsibility
OPLAN— Operations Plan
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD (PA&E)— Office of the Secretary of Defense/Program Analysis and Evaluation.
POM— Program Objective Memorandum
PPBES— Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System
QDR— Quadrennial Defense Review
SCL— Standard Conventional Load
SMC/SY— Space and Missile Systems Center Space Superiority Systems Wing
TPFDD— Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
TUCHA— Type Unit and Characteristics File
UTC— Unit Type Code
WMP— War and Mobilization Plan

Terms
Agile Combat Support (ACS)— ACS is the ability to create, protect, and sustain air, space and
cyberspace forces across the full range of military operations. It is the foundational and
crosscutting United States Air Force (USAF) system of support that enables Air Force (AF)
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                     17


operational concepts and the capabilities that distinguish air, space and cyberspace power—
speed, flexibility, and global perspective. Foundational means that ACS supports all operations
in the Air Force and is crosscutting because it synergistically combines previously stovepiped
communities into an integrated effort.
Analytic Agenda— DOD-wide agreement to make major, joint analysis efforts more effective,
efficient, and relevant. It includes Defense Planning Scenarios, Multi-Service Force Deployment
data, analytical baselines, tools and methods, studies.
Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS)— ECS is a subset of ACS that responds quickly, is
highly mobile, technologically superior, robust, flexible, and fully integrated with operations.
ECS is the deployed ACS capability to provide persistent and effective support for the
applications of Air, Space and Cyberspace power on a global basis. The ECS aspect of ACS
specifically supports air, space and cyberspace expeditionary task force (AETF) operations. ECS
includes the essential capabilities, functions, activities and tasks necessary to employ all
elements of air, space, cyberspace and land forces in deployed locations, to include redeployment
and reconstitution.
Guidance for Development of the Force (GDF)— This document, issued by the Secretary of
Defense, sets objectives for future force capabilities and is used to assess the planning and
programming priorities of the Military Departments and Defense agencies. The GDF’s main
objectives are to (1) implement aspects of DOD’s future force vision captured in the QDR, (2)
guide development of planning and programming initiatives, and (3) help meet Combatant
Commander needs through development of joint capability portfolios.
Guidance for Employment of the Force (GEF)— This document is designed to translate
DOD’s National Defense Strategy into supporting planning and action. The GEF helps guide
planning in a resource-constrained environment by establishing priorities and making key
assumptions about future resources. It recognizes the rotational demands current operations place
upon the force as a whole and takes into account that these demands are dynamic and will likely
continue. The GEF also acknowledges the interrelationship between planning, force
management, and global posture. Guidance is designed to ensure the goals for all these areas are
aligned and serve to mitigate risk to the greatest extent possible.
Joint Analytic Data Management Integrated Process Team— The JADM IPT is an O-6 level
working group, designated by the JADM SC, that previews issues for, and acts as a subordinate
working group to the JADM SC.
Joint Data Support Office— JDS is a key component of the Joint Analytic Model Improvement
Program, which was approved by the Deputy Secretary of Defense in May of 1995. JDS is co-
sponsored by OSD (PA&E) and the Joint Staff (J-8).
Unit Type Code— A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of five
characters that uniquely identify a force capability, either in-place or deployable.
18                                                                AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


                                          Attachment 2
          AIR FORCE SUPPORT TO THE ANALYTICAL BASELINE PROCESS

A2.1. The AFAC Steering Group. The AFAC Steering Group leads the AFAC, and consists
of a chairperson, an executive secretariat, and the leaders of the MAJCOM, NAF, DRU and FOA
analytic organizations. The director of AF/A9 chairs the AFAC Steering Group, and AF/A9I
operates as the executive secretariat. In regards to the development of the analytical baseline, the
mission of the AFAC Steering Group is to:
     A2.1.1. Identify current and emerging analytic issues that will affect the AFAC.
     A2.1.2. Provide a forum for consideration of these issues and development of potential
     solutions.
     A2.1.3. Advocate AFAC positions on and solutions to these issues to appropriate Air Force
     and USD (P) or oversight organizations.
     A2.1.4. Recommend, endorse and employ best analytic and lessons learned practices,
     methodologies and tools for the Air Force.
     A2.1.5. Review and coordinate on AF studies nominated to an analytical baseline.
A2.2. Air Force Scenario Requirements Planning Workshop (AFSRPW). The objective of
the AFSRPW is to develop a consolidated Air Force position on scenarios and scenario
requirements that the Air Force needs in order to conduct effective strategic analyses. AF/A9
developed the AFSRPW as a forum through which AF MAJCOMs, NAFs, Component
Commands, DRUs and FOAs can articulate their requirements and concerns regarding analytical
baseline scenarios and their content. By vetting scenario priorities amongst all of the AFAC
members and other participants, the Air Force can “speak with one voice” and promote those
scenarios and scenario components that meet the needs of the majority of the Air Force analytic
community. The process starts with USD (P) proposing a list of potential scenarios for
development as DPS, MSFD, and/or analytical baseline products. The Services (along with
other DOD components) are then given the opportunity to comment and provide additional
scenarios they would like included. The Services (and other DOD components) can also provide
the critical assumptions or analytic underpinnings that need to be included in specific scenarios
in order for the component to conduct strategic analyses of relevant issues. For the Air Force,
this means the AFSRPW will produce a prioritized list of scenarios which includes theater or
specific countries, time period of interest (mid term versus out-year or future year) and a brief
CONOPS description (Swiftly Defeat, Win-Decisively, Irregular, Catastrophic, etc.) for each
scenario. The list may also include specific CONOPS or threats that the Air Force analytic
community needs for future analyses. The consolidated list represents the consolidated,
coordinated Air Force position that AF/A8 and AF/A9 can use to propose scenarios to the Joint
Staff and USD (P) each year. AFSRPWs are normally held annually, with hosting duties
rotating among the AFAC membership. AF/A9 sponsors the AFSRPW, with appropriate support
from AF/A8.
A2.3. Defense Planning Scenario (DPS). A Defense Planning Scenario provides a depiction of
a threat to international security, a corresponding mission for U.S. military forces, and a
strategic-level concept of operation for carrying out that mission. The DPS is based on the
Guidance for the Development of the Force (GDF). The SECDEF approves a single set of
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                      19


scenarios intended to serve as a standard by which the senior leadership of the Department can
gauge the sufficiency of the Defense Program. A single set of scenarios ensures DOD
consistency for studies, wargames, and experimentation for QDR or GDF-directed studies and
associated component analytic efforts. This definition does not restrict AF organizations from
using other scenarios for purposes outside the scope of the DPS/GDF.
   A2.3.1. DPS development starts with USD (P), which leads the scenario build process and
   has final approval authority on DPS content. The Joint Staff, J-8 is responsible for
   developing US and allied/coalition CONOPS. To accomplish this, J-8 leads a working group
   comprised of OSD, Joint Staff, Services, and other DOD component representatives who
   provide input into the DPS development. AF/A8 represents the Air Force at the DPS
   CONOPS development meetings. A continuous effort is made to link future concepts with
   DPSs by incorporating the concepts and capabilities outlined in the Joint Operating Concepts
   (JOCs) into the US and allied/coalition CONOPS of each DPS. J-8 provides oversight to
   ensure that relevant concepts and capabilities are integrated into each US and allied/coalition
   CONOPS. The DPS is the starting point for the analytical baseline process. All of the
   components use the DPS in developing the MSFD.
   A2.3.2. The Air Force contribution to the DPS development process includes review of the
   draft document, submission of comments, and revision for compliance at MSFD conferences,
   as required to address inconsistencies. AF/A8 is the AF OPR for the DPS.
A2.4. Multi-Service Force Deployment (MSFD). The MSFD process develops baseline force
laydowns and CONOPS for future conflict scenarios. The MSFD products can be used for
studies, analyses and wargaming to support budget analysis, acquisition programs, force
structure assessments and alternative warfighting CONOPS/courses of action. The Defense
Intelligence Agency (DIA) approves the adversary/hostile force laydowns (based on Joint
Country Force Assessment data) and CONOPS for the intelligence community. The MSFD
CONOPS includes a scenario depiction of forecasted and mobilized opposing air, land, sea and
space forces in a total battlespace environment. The MSFD process is a collaborative OSD, Joint
Staff, Services, COCOM and intelligence community effort, managed by the Joint Staff J-8. J-8
receives guidance on MSFD scenario development (priorities) through USD (P). CONOPS for
the DPS and MSFD are developed for USD (P) and Joint Staff J-8 respectively by a J-8 led
working group involving OSD, other Joint Staff agencies, the Services and other DOD
components. AF/A9, with support from AF/A8 and other AF organizations, represents the Air
Force in MSFD CONOPS development. AF/A9 is the Air Force lead for the MSFD
development process.
   A2.4.1. MSFD Conference. The purpose of the MSFD conference is to “flesh out” a draft
   MSFD document and build a robust CONOPS and an associated database that multiple users
   can employ for studies, wargaming and analyses. AF/A9 will be responsible for ensuring the
   correct representation of Air Force areas of expertise at the MSFD conference and the Air
   Force team speaks with a single voice. AF/A9 will resolve any difference of opinion
   between Air Force action officers at the MSFD conference. Most issues can be deferred until
   after the MSFD conference to allow action officers to coordinate issues with their supervisors
   or other Air Force offices and organizations.
   A2.4.2. Resolution. The level of resolution MSFD products are developed to is dependent
   on the specific scenario being examined. Regardless of the level of resolution, Volume II of
20                                                               AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


     the MSFD provides a D-Day, H-Hour laydown of the forces, units and equipment. Table
     A2.1 shows the two alternative levels of resolution for an MSFD.

Table A2.1. MSFD Resolution Matrix.
             FORCE TYPE                    LEVEL 1 MSFD               LEVEL 2 MSFD
         Ground                     Division/Independent Brigade    Company/Battery
         Air                        Squadron                        Squadron
         Naval                      Ship                            Ship
         Air Defense                Battery                         Firing Unit
         Radar                      Battery                         Individual
         Jammers                    Battery                         Individual
         Missiles                   Battery                         Battery
         Space                      Satellite/Squadron              Satellite/Squadron
     A2.4.3. Functional Areas. As a critical foundation for the analytical baselines, it is
     imperative that the US and allied/coalition force laydowns and CONOPS in the MSFD
     products be as robust and thoroughly vetted as the adversary/hostile force laydowns and
     CONOPS. To this end, the JADM SC has determined that it is critical that the Services
     support the DPS/MSFD development process to the maximum extent possible. Functional
     areas for the MSFD conference are:
        A2.4.3.1. Planning
        A2.4.3.2. Operations
        A2.4.3.3. Information Operations / Information Warfare
        A2.4.3.4. Command and Control/Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance
        A2.4.3.5. Logistics (to include forces, basing, and sustainment)
        A2.4.3.6. Unconventional Warfare / Psychological Operations
        A2.4.3.7. Tactical Deception
        A2.4.3.8. Electronic Warfare
        A2.4.3.9. Space
     A2.4.4. Lead for MSFD Conferences. AF/A9 is the Air Force OPR for MSFD conferences.
     AF/A9 coordinates Air Force representation at the conference and as OPR, has oversight of
     the follow-on information that is required for the specific scenario(s).
     A2.4.5. Pre-Conference Meetings. At the announcement of a scenario for an MSFD
     conference, AF/A9 will identify an Air Force lead for that specific conference/scenario. The
     Air Force lead is then responsible for setting up a meeting of action officers to discuss Air
     Force support for the MSFD conference, and any read-ahead or pre-conference work that is
     required. The major action items required for an MSFD conference include but are not
     limited to the following:
        A2.4.5.1. Review of the scenario’s current-year Operations Plan (OPLAN) if applicable
        to get a sense of the theater commander’s intent. In doing so, it should be kept in mind
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                     21


       that the current-year OPLAN may have been developed with a different warfight in mind
       than the one being developed for the MSFD.
       A2.4.5.2. Review apportionment of forces for specific theater if applicable
       A2.4.5.3. Develop a list of “deploying forces” for the MSFD scenario based on items
       A2.4.5.1. and A2.4.5.2.
       A2.4.5.4. Obtain CONOPS information for any new system not previously used in an
       MSFD scenario.
A2.5. Joint Country Force Assessments (JCOFA). The JCOFA Program supports the
Analytic Agenda mandated by DODD 8260.01 and DODI 8260.2. All adversary/hostile force
data used in analytical baseline derived products will be based on Defense Intelligence Agency
(DIA) validated intelligence contained in JCOFA databases, configuration tables (C&P data),
and supporting narratives. DIA is the JCOFA Program Manager and is the final adjudicator of
all data requirements and nominated requirements included in the JCOFA Requirements List.
NASIC is currently responsible for Air, Air Defense, Space, Counterspace, and Air Force C2
JCOFA estimates and production. AF/A9I, in coordination with NASIC, will submit new or
modified Air Force requirements for inclusion in the JCOFA Requirements List at the JCOFA
Requirements List Conference which, is held periodically. AF/A9 will consolidate articulated
MAJCOM and Air Staff directorate nominated adversary/hostile force data requirements at the
AFSRPW (see Paragraph A2.2) for inclusion in the JCOFA requirements list. Air Force JCOFA
users may raise intelligence analytic concerns directly with JCOFA producers on an ad hoc basis
at appropriate venues and times but are requested to courtesy copy AF/A9.
A2.6. Analytical Baseline Development Team (ABDT). An Analytical Baseline Development
Team (ABDT) is an ad hoc team of representatives from selected DOD components, charged
with creating an analytical baseline. Joint analytical baseline development teams are chartered
under DODI 8260.2 to establish plans for constructing the analytical baselines, including
identifying objectives, timelines, broad data requirements, etc. In developing the baselines, the
teams may employ models and simulations used within the Department of Defense for strategic
analyses. Data specifications should focus on the needs of these models and simulations, when
used. Overall, the respective DOD component JADM SC representative identifies members of
the ABDT. Regardless of the origin of the analytical baseline (MSFD or model database), Joint
Staff J-8 or OSD (PA&E) will lead the analytical baseline development effort. AF/A9 will lead
the Air Force representation on the ABDTs. Other Air Force members of the ABDT are
identified by their respective division chief based on a request from AF/A9. Representatives of
subordinate A9 organizations may request to participate on ABDTs through their respective
AFAC SG member.
A2.7. Analytical Baseline Terms of Reference. For each analytical baseline, Joint Staff J-8 or
OSD (PA&E) will publish a Terms of Reference. This classified document outlines the plan for
the development and management of a specific analytical baseline or set of analytical baselines.
Major sections in the terms of reference include: 1) a purpose statement, 2) background
description, 3) definitions, 4) objectives, 5) description of analytical baseline products, 6)
assignment of responsibilities, 7) organizational structure, 8) measures of effectiveness, 9)
statement of assumptions, and 10) methodology.
22                                                                AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


A2.8. JDS Analytical Baseline Data Calls. JDS will normally provide data calls based on a
previously developed DPS and associated MSFD. On some occasions, analytical baselines may
result from a request from a DOD component to have an already established strategic level
model scenario database declared an analytical baseline. In this case, the analytical baseline
development team will be validating an existing database vice building one from scratch.
A2.9. Analytical Baselines Built From MSFDs. As changes may have occurred in the
Service’s Program Objective Memorandum (POM) since the MSFD conference, it may be
appropriate to review the “deployed forces” for the analytical baseline scenario. An analytical
baseline being developed from an MSFD will require large amounts of data to populate a
campaign level model sufficiently. Attachment 3 lists data requirements, sources, OPRs and
OCRs. While not an exhaustive list, this attachment provides some insight into the types of data
JDS will be requesting, and the appropriate Air Force organization that will provide it and in
some cases, with the knowledge of the OPR, interact with the OSD (PA&E) baseline
development.
A2.10. Analytical Baselines from Other Model Databases. As various analytic agencies
develop their own strategic level model databases, they may request JADM IPT and JADM SC
evaluate the model database as an analytical database. This process will involve reviewing the
model database, model methodologies, and model output. The list of data sources, OPRs, and
OCRs should be used as a guide and aid to obtaining official or authoritative Air Force data.
However, this list is not a substitute for good staff work.
A2.11. Data Quality Level Supporting Analytical Baseline Development. For the purposes
of the Analytical Baseline development process, this AFI divides data quality level into three
separate categories. In order of decreasing significance, these categories are official,
authoritative, and best available.
     A2.11.1. Official Data. Official data are any data that have been reviewed and approved by
     the Air Staff (e.g., AF/A9) or Secretariat (e.g., SAF/AQ) for release outside the Air Staff/Air
     Force to other DOD components or government agencies. This release does not constitute
     public release of the data. These data represent the official position of the Air Force.
     Examples of official data include force structure contained in the POM submissions, sortie
     rates as defined in the War, Mobilization plans, etc.
     A2.11.2. Authoritative Data. Authoritative data are equivalent to official data in terms of
     accuracy, quality and level of development. However, these data have not been formally
     approved for release outside the Air Staff/Air Force. In many cases these data have begun,
     but will not complete Air Staff review and approval for release process within the time
     constraints of the data request. Examples of authoritative data might include weapons
     inventories, interim force structure (force tabs), aircraft basing plans, and emerging
     CONOPS. The major source for authoritative data is the issuing headquarters or the OPR.
     Other sources of authoritative data might include the Air Staff, MAJCOMS, COCOM service
     components, system program offices or laboratories.
     A2.11.3. Best Available Data. Best available data describes data that are neither official nor
     authoritative. The level of accuracy, quality and vetting of the data may even be unknown.
     As the name implies, they are just the best data available that will meet the timeline
     requirements of a given data call. In addition to sources listed for authoritative data above,
     best available data may come from sources such as periodicals or the internet.
AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                23


A2.12. Feedback to Data Providers. JDS will distribute analytical baselines approved for
release, and will simultaneously inform all JADM SC members (AF/A9 for the Air Force) of the
distribution. At the request of data sources/providers, AF/A9 will in turn inform the data
sources/providers of each request as appropriate.
A2.13. Security. The Air Force will comply with all normal security procedures for any data
provided to and received from JDS in the development of analytical baselines.
         24                                                          AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009


                                                   Attachment 3
                                          TABLE A3.1. DATA SOURCES.

              AF Equity                      Data          OPR                   OCR(s)
                                           Source(s)
CONOPS                                                 AF/A5XS      AF/A8X       SAF/AQP   AF/A3OC
Force Apportionment                       WMP, Vol 3   AF/A5XW
Historical/Current/FYDP Budget and
                                            ABIDES      SAF/FMBP    AF/A8PE
Programming Data
TPFDD
       Preferred mode of transportation
       Port of embarkation
       Deployed Manpower
                                           DCAPES        AF/A1M
       Requirements Document
Forward Basing                            WMP, Vol 4   AF/A5XW      AF/A4
       Pre-positioned Stocks
            Weapons                                    AF/A5XW      AF/A4L
            Fuel                                       AF/A5XW      AF/A4L
Force Structure
       Units
            Unit Identification Code      MPES         AF/A1M
            Authorizations                MPES         AF/A1M
            Assigned                      MilPDS       AF/A1P
       UTCs
            Parent Command/Unit                        AF/A5XW      AFSPC/A8/9   AFGSC
            Subordinate
            Commands/Units
            Manpower Force Element        DCAPES       AF/A1M
            Equipment (TUCHA)                          AF/A4        AF/A9FC
                           Dimensions
                           Quantity
                           Sensors
                           NBC Sensors
       Peacetime Basing
            Geographic Location Code
            Pre-positioned Stocks
                           Weapons                     AF/A5XW      AF/A4L
                           Fuel                        AF/A5XW      AF/A4L
Weapon Systems                                         AF/A5R
       Characteristics and Performance
            Sortie Rates                  WMP, Vol 5   AF/A5XW
       Communications Systems
       Sensor Systems
       Space-based Assets                              AF/A9IW      AFSPC/A8/9
            Orbits and Coverage                        AFSPC/A8/9   AFSPC/A8/9
        AFI90-1602 18 AUGUST 2009                                       25


          Force Enhancement
          Effectiveness             AF/A9IW      AFSPC/A8/9
          Counterspace              AFSPC/A8/9   SMC/SY
          CONUS Missile Force       AF/A10       AFGSC
          Nuclear                   AFGSC
     Cyberspace Assets              AF/A9F       AFSPC/A8/9
Weapons
     Inventories                    AF/A4P       AF/A5RW      SAF/AQP
     Loadouts/SCLs                  AF/A5RW      SAF/AQP
     Effectiveness                  A5RW         SAF/AQP      SAF/AQP
