BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-802
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             11 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                             Special Management

                                                                           RISK MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSEC/SEA                                                              Certified by: AF/SE
                                                                (Major General Gregory A. Feest)
Supersedes:    AFI90-901, 1 April 2000                                                 Pages: 31


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements the Risk Management (RM) guidance within Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
Management and Risk Management. This AFI provides an overarching framework for Air Force
RM (AF RM) and establishes the requirement to integrate and sustain RM throughout the AF as
a risk reduction process to assist leaders in identifying and controlling safety and health hazards
in making informed decisions. It assigns responsibilities for AF RM Process elements and
contains AF RM Process management information for the Safety and Occupational Health
program. Via formal memorandum dated 12 May 2010, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force,
Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE), delegated authority to the AF Chief of Safety
(AF/SE) for DODI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health Program, Enclosure E3.2
guidance as related to the AF RM Process. HQ AF (HAF) staffs, Major Commands
(MAJCOMs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), Numbered
AFs (NAFs) and Component Numbered AFs (CNAFs) are responsible for establishing and
sustaining AF RM according to the process elements described in this AFI. This publication
applies to all Air Force units, agencies and personnel (military and civilian), to include Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC), and Air National Guard (ANG).

Although interrelated, this publication does not address AF RM guidelines, policies, and
procedures specifically tied to Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, Anti-
terrorism, Integrated Defense RM Process (IDRMP), Installation Emergency Management (EM)
RM. AF RM concerns related to Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM) guidelines, policies,
and procedures for the development, review, approval, or management of systems, subsystems,
end-items and services are addressed in AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
Management, and related publications. All AF RM issues related to acquisition and test efforts
are addressed in AFI 63-101 and will be coordinated with the Assistant Secretary of the Air
 2                                                                                  AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). AF RM concerns related to Anti-terrorism reside in AFI 10-
245 (AF/A7S). IDRMP is addressed in AFI 31-101 (AF/A7S), Integrated Defense. AF RM
concerns related to the Installation Emergency Management Program reside in AFI 10-2501
(AF/A7C). Additionally, this AFI does not address the risk assessment applied to the Annual
Planning and Programming Guidance, the Air Force Requirements Oversight Council, and
similar strategic-level applications developed by AF/A9, with the process stakeholders, which
link to the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff (CJCS) Integrated Risk Matrix and the Air
Force’s related Risk Criteria. Per Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.1, this AFI
excludes explosive safety covered under Department of Defense (DoD) 6055.9-STD, DoD
Ammunition and Explosive Safety Standards, fire prevention and protection covered under DoD
Instruction 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, and AFI 32-2001, Fire
Emergency Services Program. Specific questions on any of the above topic areas should be
directed to the appropriate subject matter experts and agencies as appropriate.

This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to AF/SE,
afse.workflow@pentagon.af.mil for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) (DSN: 246-1562/0675) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. All references
to the term “Operational RM” (ORM) have been removed and replaced with the term “Risk
Management” (RM) to emphasize the importance of hazard and risk mitigation and management
in all aspects of the AF, not just Operations. In addition, all references to the term “Program”
have been replaced with the term “Process” to support the premise that RM is a systemic process
and tool to enhance risk mitigation practices in order to prevent the accidental loss of personnel,
facilities, weapon systems, and equipment during peacetime and wartime, rather than simply a
program to be managed. Several revisions were made to standardize the AF RM Process with
sister service RM processes, terms and applications. Primary changes include: 1) The 6-Step AF
RM Process was modified to a 5-Step RM Process; 2) The RM principles were modified; 3) The
levels of RM were reduced to “Deliberate” and “Real-Time”; 4) Paragraph 9 and subsections
were added on Real-Time RM (RTRM) and "ABCD" mnemonic. Section B outlines specific
waiver procedures and better defines all agency responsibilities for the AF RM Process. Section
C outlines the AF RM Core Concepts and Processes. Section D better defines RM training
requirements.

Section A—AF RM Overview                                                                                                        3
       1.      RM Definition and Tenets: ....................................................................................   3
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                                               3


       2.     RM Goals: ..............................................................................................................    4
       3.     RM Foundations: ...................................................................................................         4

Section B—AF RM Process Management                                                                                                        5
       4.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................     5
       5.     Waivers to this AFI: ...............................................................................................       11

Section C—AF RM Core Concepts and Processes                                                                                              12
       6.     RM Principles: .......................................................................................................     12
       7.     RM Levels: ............................................................................................................    13
Figure 1.     Relationship of RM Levels. ...................................................................................             13
       8.     5-Step RM Process: ...............................................................................................         14
Figure 2.     5-Step RM Process. ................................................................................................        15
Figure 3.     Sample Risk Assessment Matrix. ..........................................................................                  16
       9.     Real-Time RM (RTRM) Process or ABCD Model: ..............................................                                  19
Figure 4.     The 5-Step RM Process as related to the RTRM / ABCD Model. ........................                                        20

Section D—AF RM Training                                                                                                                 22
       10.    Training Resources: ...............................................................................................        22
       11.    Training Requirements: .........................................................................................           23
       12.    Training Documentation: .......................................................................................            25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           26

Attachment 2—WAIVER REQUEST FORMAT                                                                                                       31


Section A—AF RM Overview

1. RM Definition and Tenets:
   1.1. RM Definition. RM is a decision-making process to systematically evaluate possible
   courses of action, identify risks and benefits, and determine the best course of action (COA)
   for any given situation. RM enables commanders, functional managers, supervisors, and
   individuals to maximize capabilities while limiting risks through application of a simple,
   systematic process appropriate for all personnel and functions in both on- and off-duty
   situations. Appropriate use of RM increases an organization’s and individual’s ability to
   safely and effectively accomplish their mission/activity while preserving lives and precious
   resources.
   1.2. RM Tenets:
       1.2.1. Risk is inherent in all missions, operations and activities, both on- and off-duty.
       1.2.2. Risk can be effectively mitigated if understood and appropriate action is taken.
 4                                                               AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


        1.2.3. All personnel are responsible for utilizing RM concepts, tools and techniques.
        1.2.4. The RM process outlined herein applies to risk-related decisions when such
        decisions are not governed via separately established requirements/guidelines (i.e.,
        statutes, regulations, or DoD/AF policy/guidance that address personnel health and safety
        or environmental matters and dictate particular decisions or outcomes within these
        requirements/guidelines).
2. RM Goals:
     2.1. Enhance mission effectiveness at all levels, while preserving assets and safeguarding
     health and welfare.
     2.2. Create an Air Force cultural mindset in which every leader, Airman, and employee is
     trained and motivated to manage risk in all their on- and off-duty activities.
     2.3. Integrate RM into mission and activity planning processes, ensuring decisions are based
     upon risk assessments of the operation/activity.
     2.4. Identify opportunities to increase AF warfighting effectiveness in all environments, and
     ensure success at minimal cost of resources. The RM Process shall be institutionalized and be
     an inherent part of all military operations to address safety, occupational and environmental
     health risks.
3. RM Foundations:
     3.1. Essential concepts of AF RM:
        3.1.1. RM is a comprehensive system for improving individual and organizational
        performance in all functional areas, operations and activities, both on- and off-duty.
        3.1.2. RM must be tailored to meet the unique mission needs and operational
        requirements of each organization and personnel within the organization.
        3.1.3. RM provides the process and tools to develop and enhance awareness and
        understanding of at-risk activities and behavior of personnel both on- and off-duty.
        These processes and tools help create effective risk assessments that identify potential
        hazards and effective strategies to mitigate or eliminate the hazards.
        3.1.4. Effective RM has the added advantage of not only identifying risks, but also
        identifying areas where regulatory guidance or standard operating procedures may be
        overly restrictive or inconsistent with mission/activity requirements. In this event, a
        comprehensive risk assessment may be used to support solicitation of waivers, variances,
        or changes, but will not in itself constitute authority to violate or deviate from any
        directive, policy, standard, or other applicable regulatory guidance.
     3.2. RM does not:
        3.2.1. Inhibit flexibility, initiative or accountability in any chosen course of action.
        3.2.2. Remove risk altogether or support a “Zero Defect” mindset. RM provides
        decision makers with the tools and strategies necessary to make the appropriate decision
        for a given set of circumstances.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      5


       3.2.3. Take the place of training, practice, drills, rehearsals, tactics, techniques and
       procedures associated with a specific event and/or action.
       3.2.4. Override or supersede compliance with federally mandated Department of Defense
       (DoD), OSHA standards, federal environmental cleanup standards, AF standards/criteria,
       or any risk-based statutory and regulatory requirements that apply and dictate the
       outcome of such requirements. The AF does not have authority to grant exemptions and
       waivers for statutory and regulatory requirements that have risk related exposure
       elements or standards. All other waivers, variances, or change requests must be properly
       vetted through appropriate agencies for approval. In addition, the RM does not sanction
       or justify violations of any law.

Section B—AF RM Process Management

4. Responsibilities: The following responsibilities reinforce or are additive to those defined in
the RM section of AFPD 90-8:
   4.1. The Assistant Secretary for Air Force Installations, Environment and Logistics
   (SAF/IE):
       4.1.1. IAW Headquarters AF Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-18, Assistant Secretary of
       the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Logistics), has authority over the AF RM
       Process as outlined in DoD Instruction (DODI) 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational
       Health (SOH) Program. This responsibility may be re-delegated IAW HAFMD 1-18,
       paragraph 4, as necessary to meet the intent of DODI 6055.1.
       4.1.2. Ultimately determines how the RM Process and associated elements outlined
       herein apply to the AF functional areas within SAF/IE authority under AF Mission
       Directive (HAFMD) 1-18.
   4.2. The Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) will:
       4.2.1. Serve as the lead agent for the overall cross-functional integration and sustainment
       effort of AF RM processes and procedures (not associated with Acquisition and
       Sustainment ILCM) into the HQ US Air Force (HAF) staff and all subordinate AF
       MAJCOMs, units and agencies.
       4.2.2. Designate an overall AF RM Process Manager within the AF Safety Center
       (AFSEC) who will:
           4.2.2.1. Be trained IAW Section D of this publication.
           4.2.2.2. Incorporate advancements and innovations in RM into the AF RM Process as
           warranted.
           4.2.2.3. Work with all subordinate RM Process Managers (MAJCOM, DRU, FOA,
           NAF and CNAF) to develop and provide policy, plans, tools, techniques and
           processes that support and ensure AF RM integration and sustainment within all
           functional areas.
           4.2.2.4. Chair the AF RM Working Group as outlined in paragraph 4.4.
6                                                      AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


    4.2.2.5. Develop and provide final guidance and oversight of all matters pertaining to
    the formulation, review and execution of policies, plans, tools and techniques relative
    to the AF RM Process necessary to support AF-wide integration and sustainment of
    RM.
    4.2.2.6. Ensure that inputs are provided to Air Education and Training Command
    (AETC), Air University (AU), and the United States AF Academy (USAFA) for RM
    related course development, integration and sustainment.
       4.2.2.6.1. Any and all changes to training courseware that affect AF-level
       changes to accessions training, professional military education (PME),
       continuation training, technical training, etc., need to be properly coordinated with
       AETC, AU, and USAFA curricula managers (as appropriate). In addition,
       changes need to be coordinated through AF/A1DL via the Air Force Learning
       Committee (AFLC) as outlined in paragraph 7.5 of AFI 36-2201, Air Force
       Training Program.
       4.2.2.6.2. IAW AFI 36-2201, revisions that impact any courseware hosted by
       AETC via the Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) will be
       coordinated with the Air Education and Training Command, Directorate of
       Operations Advanced Distributed Learning Branch (AETC/A3IA).
    4.2.2.7. IAW AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, develop and publish, a
    Consolidated Unit Inspection (CUI) Checklist for HAF-level Compliance Inspections
    (CI) and a Self -Assessment Checklist (SAC) for unit-level (wing or wing-equivalent)
    inspections. These checklists will cover compliance requirements of the AF RM
    Process directed in AFPD 90-8, this AFI and other AFI's (i.e., AFI 91-202, The US
    Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, etc.) that incorporate mandated RM processes
    or procedures within their specific functional area.
       4.2.2.7.1. Approved HAF-level CI checklists and Unit-level SACs will be
       published to the AF Checklist service site or the Management Internal Control
       Toolset (MICT) site, as appropriate. Changes or updates to these checklists will
       be coordinated with the AF Inspection Agency (AFIA) and/or MICT
       administrators. These sites can be located via the AF Portal. Maintenance and
       disposition of inspection checklists will be as prescribed by the AF Records
       Information Management System records disposition schedule. Note: All AF RM
       checklists are subject to change and must be reviewed periodically and before
       each SAV or process review for accuracy.
    4.2.2.8. Conduct RM process staff assistance visits (SAVs) at the MAJCOM level
    when requested to ensure compliance, standardization and functional application of
    RM processes as related to AF RM policy and guidance.
       4.2.2.8.1. SAVs will only be conducted in conjunction with commander
       requested MAJCOM-level Safety SAVs or to support commander directed SAVs
       of their RM processes.
       4.2.2.8.2. Authorized AF RM inspection checklists (as referenced in paragraph
       4.2.2.7) must be used to ensure standardization of RM practices and requirements
       to maximum extent possible.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  7


         4.2.2.9. Support collection and distribution of RM feedback and lessons learned as
         appropriate and as directed IAW paragraph 4.8.6.
         4.2.2.10. Maintain approved waiver requests to this AFI as outlined in paragraph 5
         and subsections.
  4.3. Other HAF agency responsibilities to support the AF RM Process are as follows:
     4.3.1. AF/A1 will provide guidance to integrate RM processes, principles, and
     techniques into training and educational programs as appropriate.
     4.3.2. AF/A8 will ensure the AF strategic plan and program guidance incorporates RM
     principles as appropriate.
     4.3.3. SAF/AQ will ensure that acquisition guidance incorporates RM principles as
     dictated by this publication in addition to specific ILCM RM guidance related to
     acquisition, test and logistics efforts as outlined in paragraph 4.12.
     4.3.4. SAF/FM will ensure fiscal guidance incorporates RM principles as appropriate.
  4.4. The Air Force RM Working Group will:
     4.4.1. Assist in developing AF RM policy, requirements, and overall strategy by
     identifying AF, MAJCOM and specific organizational RM requirements.
     4.4.2. Facilitate the exchange of crosstell and lessons-learned information between
     MAJCOMs and equivalent organizations.
     4.4.3. Be chaired by the AF RM Process Manager and be comprised of representatives
     from SAF/IE and each MAJCOM including AFRC, ANG, and USAFA. Other HAF
     agencies, DRUs, FOAs, NAFs, and CNAFs will serve as on-call members of the group
     and will participate as required.
     4.4.4. Meet at least annually (on-site, telecom or video teleconference (VTC) as
     appropriate); additional meetings will be scheduled as required by the AF RM Process
     Manager in coordination with AF RM Working Group representatives. Working group
     and supporting agency representatives will be unit-funded for any temporary duty
     requirements supporting these meetings.
  4.5. MAJCOM commanders or equivalents will:
     4.5.1. Serve as the principal advocate for RM and key decision-maker in allocating
     MAJCOM or equivalent assets to control and/or accept risk when mission benefits
     dictate.
     4.5.2. Appoint a MAJCOM-level (or equivalent) RM Process Manager to be their
     command-wide advocate for RM and to act as the primary command liaison with the AF
     RM Process Manager, AF RM Working Group and subordinate RM Instructors/Advisors
     on all RM related issues.
     4.5.3. Ensure subordinate wing commanders and/or equivalents appoint RM
     Instructors/Advisors to address wing/unit-level, on- and off-duty RM processes and
     concerns.
8                                                            AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


       4.5.4. Ensure that MAJCOM inputs are provided via their MAJCOM RM Process
       Manager to the AF RM Working Group for RM related course development and
       integration within AETC, AU and USAFA.
       4.5.5. Integrate RM principles, concepts, and techniques into command-level education
       and training programs (i.e., squadron commanders’ course, supervisors’ course, etc.).
       4.5.6. In addition to mission-related RM concepts, emphasis must be placed on the active
       role of commanders and supervisors in regards to on- and off-duty RM and their personal
       interactions with subordinates.
    4.6. MAJCOM RM Process Managers will:
       4.6.1. Serve as the MAJCOM Subject Matter Expert (SME) for all RM related issues.
       4.6.2. Serve as the MAJCOM’s primary member on the AF RM Working Group and
       liaison with the AF RM Process Manager and subordinate RM POCs for all command-
       related RM concerns; ensure MAJCOM conformance with the overall AF RM Process.
       4.6.3. As necessary, develop command-specific RM policies, guidance supplements,
       requirements, and overall command RM strategy in-line with AF RM Policies and AF
       RM Working Group guidance to meet unique command situations and circumstances.
       These efforts must facilitate continued integration and sustainment of RM across all
       functional areas of the command to include both on- and off-duty activities. MAJCOM
       specific RM policies, guidance supplements and/or processes will be coordinated with the
       AF RM Process Manager and shared with the AF RM Working Group to enhance cross-
       tell and standardization of RM processes AF-wide.
       4.6.4. Ensure all subordinate wing and/or unit-level RM Instructors/Advisors receive AF
       and MAJCOM specific RM guidance in a timely manner.
       4.6.5. Conduct (as time and resources permit) RM process SAVs at the wing or sub-
       organization levels as requested by unit commanders. Focus of such visits should seek to
       ensure compliance, standardization and functional application of RM processes in
       conjunction with addressing the specific needs of the unit or agency. These SAVs can be
       delegated to sub-organizations and personnel as necessary to meet the intent of this
       paragraph. See paragraphs 4.2.2.7.1. for additional guidance on inspection checklists and
       the maintenance and disposition of these checklists.
       4.6.6. As necessary and IAW AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, work
       with MAJCOM lessons learned (L2) agencies/offices (normally associated with A9L) to
       link AF Lessons Learned Program (AFL2P) processes with MAJCOM RM lessons
       learned/observations.
       4.6.7. Provide/maintain periodic RM refresher briefings/presentations to/for unit
       personnel, as directed by the commander IAW paragraph 4.8.5. and as outlined under
       paragraph 11.3.2. and subsections.
       4.6.8. Support collection and distribution of RM feedback and lessons learned as
       appropriate and as directed IAW paragraph 4.8.6.
       4.6.9. Process MAJCOM and sub-organization waiver requests to this AFI IAW
       paragraph 5 and subsections.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                     9


  4.7. AETC, AU, and USAFA will:
     4.7.1. Where appropriate, integrate AF RM principles, processes, tools and techniques
     into curricula for education and training programs, including accession training, PME,
     continuation education, and technical training. RM education and training will begin with
     initial awareness and progress in a building-block manner that is supportive of the goals
     outlined in this AFI.
     4.7.2. Ensure their MAJCOM-level Process Managers work in conjunction with
     appropriate AETC, AU and USAFA training curricula managers and the AF RM Process
     Manager to coordinate all courseware/curricula changes related to the AF RM Process as
     outlined in paragraph 4.2.2.6. and subsections.
         4.7.2.1. Curriculum integration will be tailored to meet the unique mission of the
         school or program in consideration of the goals outlined in AFPD 90-8 and this AFI.
         4.7.2.2. The AETC LeMay Center/CC will support the integration of RM concepts
         and principles into new and existing doctrine where mission supportive and directly
         applicable to the war fighter.
  4.8. All Commanders/Directors and equivalents will:
     4.8.1. Be trained IAW Section D.
     4.8.2. Ensure all subordinate personnel, supervisors,           RM    Process    Managers,
     Instructors/Advisors are trained IAW Section D.
     4.8.3. Ensure RM is incorporated into job safety training outlines (JSTOs) and on-the-job
     (OJT) awareness training IAW AFI 91-202, and paragraphs 11.33. & 12.4 of this AFI.
     4.8.4. Ensure RM principles, processes, tools and techniques are established, as
     appropriate, to address specific operations, missions, and activities (on- and off-duty). As
     a minimum these processes, procedures and tools should:
         4.8.4.1. Be standardized across similar operations, missions, and activities whenever
         possible.
         4.8.4.2. Identify and clearly establish specific risk acceptance authority levels and
         thresholds for elevating risk acceptance decisions for operations and activities. These
         levels can vary depending upon specific operations/activities, units, personnel
         involved, etc. The intent is to ensure that as risk levels increase, risk acceptance and
         associated Go/No-Go decisions are elevated to obtain appropriate
         commander/supervisory oversight and approval.
         4.8.4.3. Be designed to provide commanders, supervisors, and personnel with
         meaningful data to help improve local RM processes and provide for more effective
         risk mitigation efforts.
     4.8.5. Ensure assigned personnel receive periodic RM refresher briefings/presentations
     as directed under Section D, paragraph 11.3.2. This responsibility may be delegated as
     necessary to meet the intent of this AFI.
     4.8.6. Ensure that organizational and personal application of RM principles, processes,
     tools and techniques are evaluated following any significant mishap or event that affects
10                                                           AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


     the organization or individuals within the organization. Such evaluations will be utilized
     to identify and provide effective RM lessons learned for future application both in and
     outside the organization. When lessons learned or observations have potential impact to
     AF-wide or joint military operations or activities, they should be considered for
     submission to the AFL2P, and the Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS),
     IAW AFI 90-1601, and the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff Instruction (CJCSI)
     3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP).
  4.9. Wing commanders or equivalents will:
     4.9.1. Serve as the principal advocates for RM and key decision-makers in allocating
     wing assets to control and/or accept risk when mission benefits dictate.
     4.9.2. Determine the appropriate wing (or equivalent) organization, office or individual
     to facilitate and monitor RM principles, processes, policies and techniques as required by
     MAJCOM and/or wing-level policy. This organization, office or individual will serve as
     the central hub for all wing-related RM issues and act as the principal liaison with the
     MAJCOM RM Process Manager.
     4.9.3. Designate RM Instructors/Advisors, as necessary to ensure RM principles,
     processes, tools and techniques are applied effectively within the wing to address unique
     mission needs and off-duty activities.
         4.9.3.1. As a minimum, one primary RM Instructor/Advisor will be appointed at each
         wing (or equivalent agency). Additional RM Instructors/Advisors may be assigned
         within subordinate units at the discretion of the wing commander (or equivalent) and
         in coordination with subordinate commanders as necessary.
         4.9.3.2. If only one RM Instructor/Advisor is designated for the wing (or equivalent
         agency), that individual will also serve as the principle wing RM liaison as outlined in
         paragraph 4.9.2.
         4.9.3.3. Exception: Wings that cannot support this manning/resource requirement
         will submit a waiver request through the MAJCOM RM Process Manager to
         MAJCOM/CV for approval as outlined in paragraph 5. Waivers will not exceed 12
         months and must be revalidated prior to MAJCOMs granting additional waivers.
  4.10. All RM Instructors/Advisors (HAF, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, NAF, CNAF, Wing
  and/or Unit-level) will:
     4.10.1. Be trained IAW Section D.
     4.10.2. Comply with all RM process guidance as dictated by senior RM Process
     Managers as appropriate.
     4.10.3. Provide Real-Time RM expertise and risk assessment capability to leadership,
     personnel, and organizations within their functional area of responsibility.
         4.10.3.1. Formal risk assessments should be accomplished utilizing the AF Form
         4437; Deliberate Risk Assessment Worksheet, or equivalent to ensure the assessment
         is properly documented for future evaluation and reference.
     4.10.4. Liaise with appropriate RM offices and RM Process Managers as necessary to
     integrate current RM principles, processes, tools and techniques into RM training at the
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   11


      functional level. They must tailor this training to meet the unique mission(s) of their
      organization and personnel in consideration of the guidance outlined in this AFI.
      4.10.5. Provide/maintain periodic RM refresher briefings/presentations to/for unit
      personnel, as directed by the commander IAW paragraph 4.8.5. and as outlined under
      paragraph 11.3.2. and subsections.
      4.10.6. Support collection and distribution of RM feedback and lessons learned as
      appropriate and as directed IAW paragraph 4.8.6.
   4.11. Air Force Career Field Managers will:
      4.11.1. Integrate RM principles, processes, tools and techniques into career field
      education and training plans where possible and it is mission supportive to do so.
   4.12. Testing, Acquisition and System Safety Managers will:
   4.12.1. Be trained IAW Section D (as applicable) and required and/or specialized test,
   acquisition and system safety RM training as dictated by SAF/AQ and/or MAJCOM specific
   guidance.
      4.12.2. Apply overarching RM principles and practices to acquisition and system safety
      RM principles and practices in the development and sustainment of weapon systems as
      part of acquisition systems engineering and system safety processes outlined by SAF/AQ
      and AF Materiel Command (AFMC) IAW HAFMD 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air
      Force (Acquisition), AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management,
      MIL-STD-882E, Standard Practice for System Safety, AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
      Mishap Prevention Program, and other associated guidance.
      4.12.3. As part of the testing and fielding of a new or modified weapon system, provide
      systems safety information to testers, operators, and maintainers on all potential or
      identified hazards, implemented mitigation measures, and accepted residual risks
      associated with the system.
      4.12.4. Assist weapon system testers, operators, and maintainers in the application of
      RM to those weapon systems, to include the assessment of hazards and potential
      mitigation measures.
   4.13. All AF Personnel will:
      4.13.1. Be trained in RM Fundamentals and receive/review periodic RM refresher
      training/ presentations as outlined in Section D.
      4.13.2. Utilize sound RM principles, processes, tools and techniques to assess and
      mitigate risks associated with both on- and off-duty activities. All Airmen are encouraged
      to enter observations that contain potential lessons learned into the AFL2P and JLLIS for
      coordination through the AF Lessons Process (AFLP) and/or inform the local chain of
      command as appropriate IAW AFI 90-1601.
      4.13.3. Apply RM principles in conjunction with effective “Wingman” concepts and
      “Personal RM (PRM)” principles to promote proactive mishap prevention both on- and
      off-duty.
5. Waivers to this AFI:
 12                                                         AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


   5.1. Affected organizations shall process a waiver request when it is impractical or
   impossible to meet the requirements or procedures outlined in this AFI for any reason.
   Waivers are temporary and will be granted for periods not to exceed 12 months. Exemptions
   (permanent relief from requirements or procedures) to this AFI will not be granted.
       5.1.1. Waivers will be coordinated through Major Command (MAJCOM) RM process
       managers to MAJCOM vice commanders (MAJCOM/CVs), who will either
       disapprove/return to unit, or recommend approval/forward to the AF/SE for final
       approval, unless otherwise specified within this AFI.
       5.1.2. Waiver authority may be re-delegated as necessary to meet the intent of this AFI.
       Any re-delegation of this authority shall not be effective unless in writing.
       5.1.3. Waiver requests will be formatted IAW the guidance in Attachment 2. A
       consolidated waiver request may be submitted for multiple units/agencies when the
       requested waiver action is identical for these units/agencies.
   5.2. Approved waivers: The AF RM Process Manager, MAJCOM RM Process Manager and
   affected organization(s) will maintain a master file of approved waiver requests as long as
   they are in effect and for one year thereafter.
   5.3. Waiver renewals: Affected organizations will submit a brief justification for waivers
   requiring renewal. Waiver renewals will not exceed 12 months.

Section C—AF RM Core Concepts and Processes

6. RM Principles: Four principles govern all actions associated with RM. These principles are
the cornerstone of effective RM and are applicable 24-hours a day, 7-days a week, 365-days a
year (24-7-365) by all personnel, for all on- and off-duty operations, tasks and activities.
   6.1. Accept no unnecessary risk. Unnecessary risk comes without a commensurate return
   in terms of real benefits or available opportunities; it will not contribute meaningfully to
   mission or activity accomplishment and needlessly jeopardizes personnel or other assets. All
   AF missions and daily routines involve risk. The most logical choices for accomplishing a
   mission are those that meet all mission requirements while exposing personnel and resources
   to the lowest acceptable risk; take only those risks that are necessary to accomplish the
   mission or task. However, we cannot and should not be completely risk averse; even high
   risk endeavors may be undertaken when there is a well founded basis to believe that the sum
   of the benefits exceeds the sum of the costs. Balancing benefits and costs is a subjective
   process and tied intimately with the factors affecting the mission or activity; therefore,
   personnel with prior knowledge and experience of the mission or activity must be engaged
   whenever possible in making risk decisions to ensure a proper balance is achieved.
   6.2. Make risk decisions at the appropriate level. Although anyone can make a risk
   decision that impacts their personal well being, some risk acceptance decisions must be made
   by an appropriate decision making authority that can effectively allocate resources and
   implement controls to mitigate or eliminate risks associated with an operation/activity.
   Making risk decisions at the appropriate level also establishes clear accountability. Leaders
   and individuals must be aware of how much risk they can accept and when to elevate RM
   decisions to a higher level. Those accountable for the success or failure of the mission or
   activity must be fully engaged in the risk decision process.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                     13


   6.3. Integrate RM into operations, activities and planning at all levels. Integrate RM
   into planning at all levels and as early as possible. This provides the greatest opportunity to
   make well informed risk decisions and implement effective risk controls. To effectively
   apply RM, commanders, supervisors, and personnel must dedicate time and resources to
   integrate RM principles into planning, operational processes and day-to-day activities. Risk
   assessments of operations and activities are most successful when they are accomplished in
   the normal sequence of events (the pre-planning of a mission or activity) by individuals
   directly involved in the event, and not as a last minute or add-on process. Any amount of pre-
   planning that can be accomplished, even in a time constrained environment, is better than no
   planning at all.
   6.4. Apply the process cyclically and continuously. RM is a continuous process applied
   across the full spectrum of military training and operations, base operations functions, and
   day-to-day activities and events both on- and off-duty. It is a cyclic process that is used to
   continuously identify and assess hazards, develop and implement controls, evaluate outcomes
   and provide feedback to our Airmen to save lives and preserve combat resources.
7. RM Levels: The principles, goals and fundamental concepts of RM highlight the universal
application of RM concepts both on- and off-duty. There are two primary levels of RM
(Deliberate, & Real-Time) that dictate the level of effort and scope that should normally be
undertaken when evaluating risk(s). Figure 1 depicts the basic relationship of these levels and
how they relate across the strategic (long-term) and tactical (short-term) spectrums. The
controls/resources and issues shown below the RM levels are examples of resources and impacts
that might apply across the planning and execution timelines. As the diagram shows, Deliberate
and Real-Time RM are interrelated when making RM decisions; they are separated only at the
point where the planning phase transitions to the execution phase of the mission/activity. A
strong, effective RM process involves careful and Deliberative planning coupled with effective,
Real-Time RM. This full spectrum approach ensures comprehensive risk mitigation and the
likelihood of mission/activity success.

Figure 1. Relationship of RM Levels.




   7.1. Deliberate: Deliberate RM refers to pre-mission/activity planning and normally
   involves the full formal application of the complete 5-Step RM Process outlined in paragraph
   8. This process can range from an in-depth planning process involving thorough hazard
 14                                                           AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


   identification (ID), detailed data research, diagram and analysis tools, formal testing, and
   long term tracking of the risks associated with an operation, activity or system, down to
   normal day-to-day operations/activity planning that utilize the same 5-Step RM Process, but
   require less time and resources to complete. Generally associated with strategic-level
   planning, in-depth RM planning is reserved for complex operations/systems, high
   priority/high visibility situations or circumstances in which hazards are not well understood.
   In-depth RM planning is normally implemented well in advance of the target system,
   mission, event, or activity, and is normally reserved for more complex and riskier efforts (i.e.
   large troop/unit movements, airshow planning, system development, tactics & training
   curricula development, scheduled vacations, organized camping/hiking activities, scheduled
   home repairs, etc.). As the situation, operation or activity becomes less complex, familiar
   and/or closer to execution, Deliberate RM planning becomes simplified and the focus shifts
   to ensuring near-term hazards and mitigation strategies are considered. Across the spectrum
   of Deliberate RM, we must always include the experience, expertise and knowledge of
   experienced personnel to identify known hazards/risks and strategies to effectively mitigate
   risks for the specific mission, activity or task in both on- and off-duty situations. Although
   pre-planning is always desired for any situation, we must also consider how we deal with RM
   once we begin the execution phase of an activity.
   7.2. Real-Time: This level of RM is always associated with RM decisions made in “Real-
   Time” during the “execution” or tactical phase of training, operations, emergency/crisis
   response situations, or off-duty activities where there is normally little or no time to conduct
   formal/Deliberative RM planning. It is usually an informal, mental risk assessment that is
   done “on the fly” (i.e. short notice taskings, weather/natural phenomena driven activities,
   emergency responses, spontaneous off-duty activities, etc.) using basic RM process steps to
   identify and mitigate hazards in the new or changing situation. As time is normally
   constrained or limited in these situations, Deliberate RM planning (paragraph 8) is
   impractical. In Real-Time situations it is imperative that individuals are able to efficiently
   and effectively apply RM concepts to mitigate risks. To enhance recall of critical RM steps,
   the Air Force has adopted an easy to remember mnemonic (ABCD) to assist personnel in
   making sound RM decisions during “Real-Time”. Paragraph 9 provides a description of the
   AF RTRM Process that is appropriate during the “execution” of a mission or activity and/or
   time constrained situations.
8. 5-Step RM Process: RM is a continuous, systematic decision-informing process consisting
of five primary steps (Figure 2) that define the formal RM process primarily associated with
Deliberative RM planning and forms the basis for Real-Time RM considerations. The following
is a brief description of the 5-Step RM Process.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                     15


Figure 2. 5-Step RM Process.




   8.1. (Step 1) Identify the Hazards: Step one of the RM process involves application of
   appropriate hazard identification techniques in order to identify hazards associated with the
   operation or activity. Hazards can be defined as any real or potential condition that can cause
   mission degradation; injury, illness, death to personnel or damage to or loss of equipment/
   property. Key aspects of this step include:
      8.1.1. Mission/Task Analysis: Review current and planned operations and/or tasks
      associated with the mission or activity.
      8.1.2. List Hazards: Identify and list hazards and/or factors that may lead to dangers and
      risks associated with the operation or activity.
      8.1.3. List Causes: List the causes associated with each identified hazard, and try to
      identify the root cause(s) against which to apply RM strategies.
   8.2. (Step 2) Assess the Hazards: The assessment step involves the application of
   quantitative and/or qualitative measures to determine the probability and severity of negative
   effects that may result from exposure to hazards/risks and directly affect mission or activity
   success. This process can be formalized or intuitive. Key aspects of this step include:
      8.2.1. Assess Hazard Exposure: Evaluate the time, proximity, volume or repetition
      involved to determine the level of exposure to hazards.
      8.2.2. Assess Hazard Severity: Determine severity of the hazard in terms of potential
      impact on personnel, equipment, or mission/activity.
      8.2.3. Assess Probability: Determine the probability that the hazard will cause a negative
      event of the severity assessed above. Probability may be determined through estimates or
      actual numbers (if available).
 16                                                            AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


      8.2.4. Assess Risk Levels: Determine the level of risk associated with the hazard as it
      relates to Severity and Probability. The level of risk will vary from “extremely high” as
      associated with frequent exposure and catastrophic effects to “low” as associated with
      unlikely exposure and negligible effects.
      8.2.5. Complete Risk Assessment: Combine severity and probability estimates to form a
      risk assessment for each hazard. By combining the probability of occurrence with
      severity, a matrix is created where intersecting rows and columns define a Risk
      Assessment Matrix. Figure 3 provides one example of a Risk Assessment Matrix; color
      coding, coupled with numeric values is one way to ensure the matrix is readable in both
      color and grayscale formats. Risk Assessment Matrices can take different forms and must
      be designed to fit the organization or situation as warranted. Note: A complete and in-
      depth description of the Risk Assessment Matrix can be found in AFPAM 90-803.

Figure 3. Sample Risk Assessment Matrix.




   8.3. (Step 3) Develop Controls & Make Decisions: Step three involves the development
   and selection of specific strategies and controls that reduce or eliminate risk. Effective
   mitigation measures reduce one of the three components (Probability, Severity or Exposure)
   of risk. Risk mitigation decisions must be made at the appropriate level for the identified risk.
   The higher the risk, the higher the decision-level needs to be to ensure that an appropriate
   analysis of overall costs to benefits has been carefully weighed. Keep in mind there is no
   “cookie-cutter” approach or specific standard for establishing levels of RM decision
   authority across the Air Force. However, it is critical that leadership/decision makers ensure
   that the levels of decision authority are aligned appropriately for mission requirements and
   experience levels of the personnel conducting operations/activities under their responsibility.
   It is possible for decision-levels to vary within a command for differing operations/activities
   if training requirements, mission sets or activities are divergent enough to warrant separate
   standards (i.e., AETC, AF Special Operations Command (AFSOC), etc.). Decision-makers
   must ultimately choose the most mission supportive risk controls, consistent with RM
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      17


  principles that provide the best solution for the given hazards. Risk decisions must never be
  delegated to a lower level for convenience or when the situation dictates senior-level
  involvement; exceptions may be considered in time critical situations where delays might
  endanger lives, resources or equipment. Key aspects of this step include:
     8.3.1. Identify Control Options: Starting with the highest-risk hazards as assessed in Step
     2, identify as many risk control options as possible for all hazards. Each hazard should
     have one or more controls that can effectively eliminate, avoid, or reduce the risk to an
     acceptable level.
     8.3.2. Determine Control Effects: Determine the effect of each control on the risk(s)
     associated with the hazard. With controls identified, the hazard should be re-assessed
     taking into consideration the effect the control will have on the   severity     and      or
     probability. This refined risk assessment determines the residual risk for the hazard
     (assuming the implementation of selected controls). At this point, it is also appropriate to
     consider the cost (personnel, equipment, money, time, etc.) of the control and the possible
     interaction between controls; do they work together?
     8.3.3. Prioritize Risk Controls: For each hazard, prioritize those risk controls that will
     reduce the risk to an acceptable level. The best controls will be consistent with mission
     objectives and optimize use of available resources (manpower, material, equipment,
     funding, time).
     8.3.4. Select Risk Controls: For each identified hazard, select those risk controls that
     will reduce the risk to an acceptable level. As in prioritizing controls, the best controls
     will be consistent with mission/activity objectives and optimum use of available
     resources (outlined above).
     8.3.5. Make Risk Control Decision: Analyze the level of risk for the operation/activity
     with the proposed controls in place. Determine if the benefits of the operation/activity
     now exceed the level of risk the operation/activity presents. Be sure to consider the
     cumulative risk of all the identified hazards and the long term consequences of the
     decision. If the cost of the risk(s) outweighs the benefits, re-examine the control options
     to see if any new or modified controls are available. If no additional controls are
     identified, inform the next level in the chain of command that, based on the evaluation,
     the risk of the mission exceeds the benefits and should be modified. When notified of a
     situation in which risk outweighs the benefit, the next level in the chain of command
     must assist and implement required controls, modify/cancel the mission, or accept the
     identified risks based on a higher level of the risk-benefit equation. Keep in mind that as
     circumstances change for a given mission/activity, the benefit-to-risk comparison must
     also be made to ensure that previous “Go/No-Go” decisions are valid.
  8.4. (Step 4) Implement Controls: Once control measures have been selected, an
  implementation strategy must be developed and carried out. The strategy must identify the:
  who, what, when, where and cost(s) associated with the control measure. For mission-related
  controls, accountability must be emphasized across all levels of leadership and personnel
  associated with the action so that there is clear understanding of the risks and responsibilities
  of commanders and subordinates alike. There must always be accountability for acceptance
  of risk regardless of circumstances. Key aspects of this step include:
18                                                            AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


     8.4.1. Make Implementation Clear: Provide a roadmap for implementation, a vision of
     the end state, and describe successful implementation. The control measure must be
     deployed in a method that ensures it will be understood by the intended audience.
     8.4.2. Establish Accountability: Accountability is a critically important area of RM. The
     accountable person is the one who makes the decision (approves the control measures),
     and hence, the right person (appropriate level) must make the decision. Also, be clear on
     who is responsible at the unit or execution level for implementation of the risk control.
     Individuals involved in a specific RM process must be aware of who is responsible and
     accountable at each stage of an operation/activity and when (if possible) decisions will be
     elevated to the next level.
     8.4.3. Provide Support: To be successful, command/leadership must be behind the
     control measure(s) put in place. Provide the personnel and resources necessary to
     implement the control measures. Incorporate sustainability from the beginning and be
     sure to deploy the control measure along with a feedback mechanism that will provide
     information on whether the control measure is achieving the intended purpose.
  8.5. (Step 5) Supervise & Evaluate: The RM process continues throughout the life cycle of
  the system, mission, or activity. Leaders and supervisors at every level must fulfill their
  respective roles to ensure controls are sustained over time. Once controls are in place, the
  process must be periodically reevaluated to ensure controls remain effective and mission
  supportive over time. Key aspects of this step include:
     8.5.1. Supervise: Monitor the operation/activity to ensure:
         8.5.1.1. The controls are effective and remain in place.
         8.5.1.2. Changes which require further RM are identified.
         8.5.1.3. Action is taken when necessary to correct ineffective risk controls and
         reinitiate the RM steps in response to new hazards.
         8.5.1.4. Risk and controls are re-evaluated anytime the personnel, equipment, or
         mission/activity change or new actions are anticipated in an environment not covered
         in the initial RM analysis.
         8.5.1.5. There is continuity of selected RM controls during leadership changes.
         Ensuring outgoing leaders share knowledge, experiences, and lessons with incoming
         leaders provides positive transition of risk acceptance and less volatility to the
         operation or activity when these changes occur.
     8.5.2. Evaluate: The RM process review/evaluation must be systematic. After assets are
     expended to control risks, a cost benefit review must be accomplished to see if risk and
     cost are in balance. Significant changes in the system are recognized and appropriate RM
     controls are reapplied as necessary to control the risks. Effective review/evaluation will
     also identify whether actual costs are in line with expectations and how the controls have
     affected mission performance (good or bad). Other considerations:
         8.5.2.1. It is unlikely that every risk analysis will be perfect the first time. When risk
         analyses contain errors of omission or commission, it is important that those errors be
         identified and corrected.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      19


           8.5.2.2. Measurements are necessary to ensure accurate evaluations of how
           effectively controls eliminate hazards or reduce risks. When available, After-Action
           reports, surveys, and in-progress reviews are excellent tools for measurements. To be
           meaningful, measurements must quantitatively or qualitatively identify reductions of
           risk, improvements in mission success, or enhancement of capabilities.
       8.5.3. Feedback: A review by itself is not enough; a feedback system must be established
       to ensure that the corrective or preventative action taken was effective and that any newly
       discovered hazards identified during the mission/activity are analyzed and corrective
       action taken. Feedback informs all involved as to how the implementation process is
       working and whether or not the controls were effective. Feedback can be in the form of
       briefings, lessons learned, cross-tell reports, benchmarking, database reports, etc. Without
       this feedback loop, we lack the benefit of knowing if the previous forecasts were
       accurate, contained errors, or were completely incorrect. Commanders, supervisors and
       individuals must work with appropriate RM Process Managers, Instructors/Advisors to
       ensure effective RM feedback and crosstell is collected and distributed to enhance future
       operations, and activities. Coordinating observations and lessons learned within the
       AFL2P process and JLLIS, IAW AFI 90-1601, and CJCSI 3150.25D, should be
       encouraged. Note: For a complete explanation of the 5-Step RM Process refer to AFPAM
       90-803.
9. Real-Time RM (RTRM) Process or ABCD Model: The 5-Step RM Process is the
cornerstone of all RM decisions and lays the framework for conducting formalized risk
assessments normally associated with the Deliberative level of RM. Although RTRM is also
founded on the 5-Step RM Process, streamlining the steps is essential in situations where risk
decisions need to be made quickly and in Real-Time. The RTRM Process or ABCD model
provides individuals with an easy to remember mnemonic that walks them through the essential
steps of the RM wheel to: “Assess the situation, Balance controls, Communicate, and Decide &
Debrief the RM decision: ABCD.” This simple and easy to remember memory jogger provides
individuals with a means to evaluate risks and formulate mitigation strategies in a short time and
can be easily applied in both on- and off-duty situations. Figure 4 provides a graphic example of
the relationship between the 5-Step RM Process and RTRM using the ABCD model.
 20                                                          AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


Figure 4. The 5-Step RM Process as related to the RTRM / ABCD Model.




   9.1. Assess the Situation: Assessing risk in a time-critical environment typically occurs
   when a planned activity is already underway or when the complexity or perception of overall
   risk is low. Effective assessment requires the key elements of hazard/risk identification and
   understanding the negative effects associated with those hazards/risks. It is essential for
   individuals to seriously consider the activity or action in which they are about to engage and
   choose appropriate mitigation strategies to meet the hazards they identify. In RTRM, a
   complete assessment of the situation requires three stages of situational awareness (SA) in a
   relatively short time: (a) Perception of what is happening, (b) Integration of information and
   goals, and (c) Projection into the future. Unlike Deliberate RM, where there is ample time to
   assess potential situations, it is an individual’s ability to discern the situation and apply
   available resources quickly and effectively that can mean the difference between success or
   failure. This first step of the RTRM/ABCD model effectively combines the first two steps of
   the 5-Step RM Process.
   9.2. Balance Controls: The second step of the RTRM/ABCD model is specifically tied to
   making risk control decisions (Step 3 of the 5-Step RM Process) to mitigate or eliminate the
   risks identified in assessing the hazards of the activity. After assessing the situation,
   personnel must consider all available controls (resources) to facilitate mission or activity
   success and how to manage them effectively. Controls/resources can vary in scope and
   availability from situation to situation. The better prepared individuals are prior to an
   activity, the more likely they will have more controls/resources available to create multiple
   redundancies or “blocks” to effectively eliminate or mitigate potential risks in Real-Time. As
   an example, this equates to having a good understanding of the situation, being properly
   trained, wearing correct Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), knowing personal limitations,
   and having a “Wingman” to support their effort(s). Each of these controls/resources serves as
   a layer of protection and enhances a decision maker’s ability to effectively balance risk vs.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    21


  reward through proper preparation and understanding of the situation and options. When
  making these considerations it is also essential that Airmen communicate with their team and
  leadership to ensure all options and resources are effectively utilized in making a sound yet
  timely risk decision.
  9.3. Communicate: The third step of the RTRM/ABCD model is to communicate. This
  communication can take various forms such as Real-Time communication with leadership to
  discuss problems and/or intentions, internal team/crew communication to discuss Real-Time
  hazards and mitigation options, or an individual internalizing their current situation and
  taking time to evaluate if they are heading down the right path. This step assumes individuals
  and/or teams carefully consider options and controls available to them in Real-Time
  situations, and that they are aware of how perception and communication skills change in
  unanticipated and changing environments. Perception and communication skills are
  adversely affected as individuals become increasingly stressed and lose SA. Feeling undo
  pressure to succeed or to continue with a plan when anticipated conditions require “mid-
  stream” changes can have similar effects on individuals and/or team members as they try to
  compensate. In these high stress situations, communication skills diminish as individuals
  channelize attention and lose awareness of the overall situation; they can experience tunnel
  vision and be unable to multitask effectively to deal with the changing circumstances.
  Understanding this, individuals and teams who are thrust into these situations can better
  prepare, anticipate and identify if they or others are losing SA and make corrections. This
  awareness enables individuals to more effectively communicate with teammates and
  leadership in Real-Time situations, and allows them to take a step back and reevaluate
  options. Asking questions such as: “Who needs to know about the situation?” “Who can help
  or assist?” “Who can provide back-up?” or “Can this be done differently” are just a few
  examples of the considerations that must be made prior to implementing a mitigation strategy
  in Real-Time.
  9.4. Decide & Debrief: The final step of the RTRM/ABCD model is to make the decision
  to continue, modify or abandon the mission/activity based upon Real-Time circumstances
  and conditions. Unlike step 4 of the 5-Step RM Process where an implementation strategy is
  carefully developed and carried out through identification of the who, what, when, where and
  cost associated with the control prior to an activity, Real-Time RM relies on the individual or
  small group taking immediate or near immediate action to mitigate risk(s) in Real-Time. This
  aspect alone can make Real-Time RM decisions riskier than deliberate RM decisions.
  Individuals must realize this and make every effort to deliberately weigh risk decisions
  before taking action to ensure they are selecting the best course of action (COA).
     9.4.1. Sometimes the original plan must be modified or changed to account for
     unforeseen issues in order to assure success. Although minor changes or modifications to
     a plan or strategy may be easily implemented, others may require higher authority (if
     available) to properly weigh the risk and determine the best COA. Accountability under
     these circumstances rests solely with the individual(s) involved in the activity and it is
     their responsibility to fully understand the scope and limits of their Go/No-Go decision
     and act accordingly. As such, the acceptance of risk and associated consequences needs
     to be taken seriously with the understanding that any adverse outcome from a selected
     COA may not only affect the individual, but greatly impact loved ones, co-workers and
     ultimately their valuable contribution to the AF mission. Although the goal for any
 22                                                            AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


      mission or activity is to operate safely and achieve success, all Airmen must consider the
      possibility of abandoning the mission or activity if the situation appears too risky or too
      costly to continue and there are no reasonable options or strategies to change/alter the
      circumstances in the time remaining to conduct the mission/activity.
      9.4.2. As with the formal 5-Step RM Process, it is essential that both leadership and
      personnel involved in a mission/activity ensure that the feedback loop or “Debrief” aspect
      of the “D” is performed. This vital process step ensures individuals follow through and
      complete the ABCD mnemonic loop by identifying what worked, what did not work, and
      ensures documented lessons learned are disseminated. Debriefs will improve
      performance, mitigate risks in future activities, and are essential in completing the ABCD
      loop. Asking questions such as: “Was our assessment accurate?” “Were we lucky?”
      “How well did we use the controls/resources?” “Was the communication effective?” and
      “What can we do to improve the events in the future?” are a few examples of questions
      that leaders, crews/teams, and individuals can ask in debriefs to ensure future activities
      are improved and risks are reduced. Note: For a more complete explanation of the
      RTRM/ABCD model process refer to AFPAM 90-803.
   9.5. Knock-it-off & Time-out Concepts: Integral to Real-Time RM are the concepts of
   "Knock-it-off" and "Time-out" during an ongoing operation/activity. These concepts are
   essential to ensuring that all personnel have a voice in any situation to identify concerns or to
   inform others of a developing hazardous situation. Verbalizing either of these terms sends a
   message to those involved in a specific action to stop, take a moment to reset and revaluate
   the current situation. The terms should be integrated as an essential part of all on- and off-
   duty operations/activities. Key aspects of these two terms include:
      9.5.1. All Airmen (regardless of rank or position) are empowered to use these terms
      without       any fear of repercussions.
      9.5.2. When either term is used, all current actions are immediately halted and the
      situation is stabilized to a safe position in order to evaluate what the specific concern is;
      this is non-negotiable and cannot be overridden by command authority.
      9.5.3. After the Knock-it-off or Time-out call, a clear determination is made whether the
      current action may be continued safely, requires change or must be terminated based
      upon the perceived concern(s)/hazard(s).
      9.5.4. The alerts provided by these terms do not prevent actions from continuing, once
      safety and risk concerns are addressed, but provide all personnel with an avenue to
      effectively mitigate risk through immediate intervention in any evolving
      operation/activity.

Section D—AF RM Training

10. Training Resources: 10.1 AF RM Fundamentals training will be completed through one of
the following options:
      10.1.1. Approved formal accessions courses or other training courses that incorporate
      required AF RM Fundamentals requirements/objectives into curricula, or incorporate the
      completion of the AF RM Fundamentals computer-based training (CBT) course as
      outlined in paragraph 10.1.2 as part of the course curricula.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    23


      10.1.2. Approved AF RM Fundamentals CBT course accessed through the Advanced
      Distributed Learning Service (ADLS), or other learning management system (LMS) as
      determined by AFSEC.
      10.1.3. Approved stand-alone CBT courseware media (Compact Disc (CD) or Digital
      Video Disc (DVD) based). This option is authorized for personnel without web-based
      access to the training site(s) indicated above, or for AF personnel without Common
      Access Card (CAC) enabled computers.
      10.1.4. Mass briefing format using approved ADLS, alternate LMS, or stand-alone CBT
      RM courseware or approved equivalent for the presentation. Mass training must be led by
      an authorized RM Process Manager or RM Instructor/Advisor when available;
      commander approved alternate instructors may be substituted as necessary to
      accommodate this method. Requests for approval of alternate/equivalent courseware for
      mass briefing presentations will be coordinated through MAJCOM RM Process
      Managers and the AF RM Process Manager.
   10.2. AF RM Application and Integration (A&I) course training will be completed through
   one of the following options:
      10.2.1. Classroom-based instruction hosted at AFSEC, AFSEC instructor-led road show
      course at a host base facility, or host base-led instruction by properly trained RM Process
      Managers or Instructors/Advisors; commander approved alternate instructors may be
      substituted as necessary to accommodate this method.
          10.2.1.1. Course leaders will utilize only approved AFSEC courseware materials
          obtained from the AFSEC Media and Force Development Division’s Training
          Development Branch (AFSEC/SEMD). If training is contracted, MAJCOMs or sub-
          organizations will establish a formal contract agreement or memorandum of
          agreement (MOA) with the contractor that includes this requirement.
          10.2.1.2. Requests for AFSEC road show courses and instruction must be
          coordinated through MAJCOM training managers and the AFSEC Media and Force
          Development Division (AFSEC/SEM). Requests will be approved/disapproved on a
          case-by-case basis.
      10.2.2. Via ADLS, other LMS, or stand-alone courseware media as determined by
      AFSEC.
   10.3. All other approved AF RM training courses (i.e., supervisor, senior leader courses,
   etc.) via ADLS, other LMS, or stand-alone courseware media as determined by AFSEC.
11. Training Requirements:
   11.1. Commanders and Supervisors (Officers and NCOs):
      11.1.1. Will be trained in AF RM Fundamentals as outlined in paragraph 10.1 and 11.3.
      11.1.2. Should complete appropriate supervisory, senior leader, and associated RM
      courses IAW paragraph 10.3.
   11.2. RM Process Managers, Instructors/Advisors will:
      11.2.1. Be trained in RM Fundamentals as outlined in paragraph 10.1 and 11.3.
24                                                           AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


     11.2.2. Complete the AF RM A&I course as outlined in paragraph 10.2. This training is
     a mandatory, one-time requirement for all officially designated RM Process Managers
     and Instructors/Advisors, and must be completed at the earliest opportunity but no later
     than six months after RM duty assignment.
     11.2.3. Exceptions: If the sixth month training window cannot be met for any reason,
     wings and/ or subordinate units will submit a training extension waiver request as
     outlined in paragraph 5.
  11.3. All AF personnel will:
     11.3.1. Be trained in AF RM Fundamentals via one of the options outlined in paragraph
     10.1.
         11.3.1.1. This training is a mandatory, one-time requirement and must be completed
         by all personnel as follows:
            11.3.1.1.1. New or incoming personnel: no later than 60 days of report to first
            permanent duty station/assignment; (120 days of initial duty station/assignment
            for AFRC and ANG personnel). AF RM Fundamentals training completed in
            conjunction with any formal accessions or other training course as outlined in
            paragraph 10.1.1. (prior to first duty station/assignment) satisfies this requirement.
            11.3.1.1.2. Currently assigned personnel: Those who have successfully
            completed any previous version of the AF RM Fundamentals course (i.e., ORM
            Fundamentals course) and have documented this training IAW paragraph 12 of
            this AFI are not required to re-accomplish the course. Those who have not
            completed the AF RM Fundamentals course or any previous version, as outlined
            above, must complete the RM Fundamentals Course as soon as practical, but no
            later than 120 days of training discrepancy notification.
     11.3.2. Periodically receive and/or review RM refresher briefings/presentations as
     directed by MAJCOM, wing or unit-level commanders. Personnel that cannot attend the
     live RM refresher briefing/presentation should review the briefing/presentation at their
     earliest opportunity IAW 11.3.2.3.
         11.3.2.1. RM refresher topics, briefings and/or presentations will be at the discretion
         of the commander and should focus on specific on- and off-duty concerns of the
         MAJCOM, wing or unit as appropriate; use of real-world and unit-specific examples
         of RM successes and failures is highly encouraged. RM topics should integrate with
         current AF and MAJCOM RM focus areas wherever possible.
         11.3.2.2. To diminish impact on Airmen’s time, RM briefings/presentations should
         be accomplished at Wing Safety Days, Wingman Days, Training Days, Commander’s
         Calls, Focus Groups, etc., whenever possible.
         11.3.2.3. Unit RM Process Managers or Instructors/Advisors should maintain a
         repository of the RM refresher briefings/presentations for unit personnel to review if
         they cannot attend the live refresher briefing/presentation. Briefings/presentations
         should be retained for a minimum of 12 months from the date of presentation.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   25


      11.3.3. Receive specific on-the-job (OJT) RM awareness training upon initial duty
      assignments and prior to starting work at that assignment, or when work conditions or
      tasks change. Documentation of this training will be IAW paragraph 12.4.
      11.3.4. Exceptions: None.
12. Training Documentation:
   12.1. It is the responsibility of all personnel to ensure that all required AF RM training is
   properly documented within their official training records.
   12.2. Successful completion of RM training (other than OJT RM awareness training; see
   paragraph 11.3.3.) will be documented IAW AFI 36-2201, Chapter 7 as appropriate.
   Preferred methods of tracking RM training are as follows:
      12.2.1. ADLS via automated record tracking (as applicable).
      12.2.2. Alternate LMS via automated record tracking (as applicable).
      12.2.3. Designated unit training personnel and wing/unit level training agencies via
      locally established training and accountability measures.
   12.3. Maintenance and disposition of training records will be as prescribed by the records
   disposition Table & Rules as appropriate.
   12.4. All OJT RM awareness training will be documented IAW AFI 91-202 and the records
   disposition schedule Table & Rules as appropriate.




                                           TERRY A. YONKERS
                                           Assistant Secretary
                                           (Installations, Environment & Logistics)
 26                                                         AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, August 19, 1998
CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP), 10 October 2008
HAFMD 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), 8 April 2009
HAFMD 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Logistics),
4 March 2009
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management and Risk Management,
2 February 2012
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010
AFPAM 90-803, Risk Management (RM) Guidelines and Tools, 11 February 2013
MIL-STD-882E, Department of Defense Standard Practice for System Safety, 11 May 2012
SAF/IE Re-delegation of Authority Memorandum, 12 May 2010
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 4437, Deliberate Risk Assessment Worksheet
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
A&I—Application and Integration
ABCD—Assess, Balance, Communicate, Decide & De-brief
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AETC/A3IA—Air Education and Training Command, Directorate of Operations Advanced
Distributed Learning Branch
AF—Air Force
AF/A1DL—Air Force Learning Division, Directorate of Force Development
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                    27


AFL2P—Air Force Lessons Learned Program
AFLC—Air Force Learning Committee
AFLP—Air Force Lessons Process
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSEC/SEA—Air Force Safety Center, Analysis and Integration Division
AFSEC/SEM—Air Force Safety Center, Media and Force Development Division
AFSEC/SEM—Air Force Safety Center, Media and Force Development Division, Training
Development Branch
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AF/SE—United States Air Force Chief of Safety
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques & Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AU—Air University
CAC—Common Access Card
CBT—Computer Based Training
CD—Compact Disc
CI—Compliance Inspection
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff Instruction
CNAF—Component Numbered Air Force
COA—Course of Action
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CRM—Cockpit Resource Management or Crew Resource Management
DoD or DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DVD—Digital Video Disc
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
 28                                                        AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive
HQ—Headquarters
ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management
IAW—In Accordance With
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
JLLP—Joint Lessons Learned Program
L2—Lessons Learned
LMS—Learning Management System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAJCOM/CV—Major Command Vice Commander
MFR—Memorandum For Record
MRM—Maintenance Resource Management
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
OJT—On-the-job
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PME—Professional Military Education
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
PRM—Personal Risk Management
RM—Risk Management
RMIS—Risk Management Information System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RTRM—Real-Time Risk Management
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SA—Situational Awareness
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Acquisition
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Financial Management
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Installations, Environment and Logistics
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                       29


SEA—Analysis and Integration Division
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SOH—Safety and Occupational Health
SOP—Standard Operating Procedure
TFTERP—Total Force Training and Education Review Process
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
VTC—Video Teleconference
WWW—Worldwide Web

Terms
Air Force Risk Management Process Manager—Individual assigned by the AF/SE to act as
the primary AF Process Manager for the overall AF RM Process. Provides oversight of the AF
RM Process and is responsible for guidance and process direction to all HAF, DRU, FOA and
MAJCOM RM Process Managers.
Component—Numbered Air Force (CNAF)—An operationally-oriented organization and
serves as the AF component headquarters for a Unified Combatant Command, or subordinate
unified command, when appropriate. The CNAF includes an Air Operations Center to provide
command and control, and an "A-Staff" to provide administrative and logistical support to
assigned resources. With the exception of USAFCENT, a CNAF has two designations, both the
Numbered Air Force designation (i.e., 13th Air Force), and a functional component designation
(i.e., U.S. Pacific Command, or USPACOM).
Lead Agent—Office or agency that has primary oversight of their AF-level program to include
oversight and development of guidance, policies, courseware, tools and/or techniques specific to
their area of responsibility. SAF/AQ is the Lead Agent for Integrated Life Cycle Management
(ILCM), acquisition, test and systems safety RM-related issues, while AF/SE is the Lead Agent
for mission and personal RM-related issues and concerns.
Lessons Learned—An observation that, when validated and resolved, results in an improvement
in military operations or activities at the strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in
long-term, internalized change to an individual or an organization.
Personal Risk Management (PRM)/Personal Leadership—The concept of taking personal
responsibility for actions and applying sound RM principles before initiating any on- or off-duty
activity. PRM considers risk decisions, mitigation strategies and impacts to self and others.
Principal Advocate—Office or agency that has primary responsibility for ensuring AF RM
principles, processes, tools and techniques are incorporated into functional areas within their
agency and sub organizations and staffs. Principal advocates do not develop primary guidance,
policies, courseware, tools and/or techniques pertaining to AF RM; they simply act as the liaison
between their agency and the AF RM Process Manager.
Risk—The probability and severity of loss or adverse impact from exposure to various hazards.
Risk Assessment—The process of detecting hazards and their causes, and systematically
assessing the associated risks.
 30                                                            AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013


Risk Management (RM)—The systematic process of identifying hazards, assessing risk,
making control decisions, implementing control decisions and supervising/reviewing the activity
for effectiveness.
Risk Management Instructors/Advisors—MAJCOM, Wing, or Unit-assigned personnel who
act as primary RM Instructors/Advisors for their functional area(s) of responsibility. They are
responsible for providing RM expertise and functional-level RM training as necessary for their
organization.
Risk Management Process Manager (HAF, DRU, FOA and MAJCOM)—Individual
assigned by each HAF, DRU, FOA or MAJCOM commander to act as the primary RM Process
Manager for their organization. They are Primary members of the AF RM Working Group and
act as the commander’s/director’s direct liaison to the AF RM Process Manager. In addition,
they coordinate directly with all sub-organizations and assigned RM Instructors/Advisors to
promote the AF RM Process, as necessary.
System—A composite, at any level of complexity, of personnel, procedures, materials, tools,
equipment, facilities, and software. The elements of this composite entity are used together in the
intended operational or support environment to perform a given task or achieve a specific
mission requirement.
System Safety—The application of engineering and management principles, criteria, and
techniques to achieve acceptable mishap risk, within the constraints of operational effectiveness
and suitability, time, and cost, throughout all phases of the system life cycle. (Military Standard
882D).
Wingman concept—The Wingman concept stems from a time-honored tradition within the Air
Force flying community that essentially says a lead pilot will never lose his/her Wingman. It is a
promise, a pledge, a commitment between Airmen who fly. Coupled with essential RM concepts
and principles, the goal of the Air Force is to cultivate and instill this same culture of
commitment between all Airmen and Air Force civilians across the Total Force via the Wingman
concept.
AFI90-802 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 31


                                        Attachment 2
                              WAIVER REQUEST FORMAT

Table A2.1. Waiver Request Format.

Waivers requests will be submitted in formal memorandum format on unit letterhead and contain
the following information:


1. Date
2. Memorandum For: MAJCOM/CV or AF/SE (dependent upon request)
3. From: Submitting Organization (Office symbol, address)
4. Subject (waiver request to…)
5. Reference: Include chapter, paragraph and line number or Table/Figure number
6. Proposed waiver request
7. Background (unique circumstances or history leading to request
8. Discussion (rationale for wavier and any proposed workarounds)
9. Recommendation (include unit(s) to which waiver applies and duration of waiver)
10. POC (Name, office symbol, DSN, and email)
