BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-1601
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                     22 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                       AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                                        COMMAND
                                                                         Supplement
                                                                              24 MAY 2012

                                                                       Special Management

                                                        AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFI is availiable for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A9L                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A9
                                                              (Dr. Jacqueline R. Henningsen)
                                                                                   Pages: 32
Supersedes:   AFI 90-1601, Air Force
              Lessons Learned Program
              dated 26 June 2008.
                                         (AETC)
OPR: AETC/A9L                                                     Certified by: AETC/A5/8/9
                                                                    (Col Christopher Oleksa)
                                                                                     Pages:7
Supersedes:   AFI90-1601_AETCSUP, 6
              August 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-16, Air Force Studies,
Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned. It provides guidance for the Air Force Lessons
Learned Program (AFL2P) to include developing standards for major activities under the Air
Force Lessons Process (AFLP). It covers all activities associated with lessons learned (L2)
support for operations, exercise and wargame after action reports (AARs) as well as other L2
activities. This instruction guides AF positions to the Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP)
and the joint community on L2 matters. This instruction applies to all Air Force military,
civilian and contractor personnel, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Command. This AFI may be supplemented by Air Force MAJCOMs or other subordinate levels,
but must be coordinated with AF/A9L prior to approval. Refer recommended changes and
 2                                                                         AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rim.cfm.

(AETC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 90-1601, Air Force
Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010. It provides guidance, direction and procedures
to conduct the AETC Lessons Learned (L2) program, and to support the Air Force and joint L2
programs. This supplement applies to all AETC military, civilian, and contractor personnel.
Coordinate all supplements through HQ AETC/A9L before publishing. It also applies to
individual reservists as well as activated/mobilized Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
Air National Guard (ANG) units gained to AETC. Submit recommended changes on AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ AETC/A9L. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rim.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision clarifies the roles and responsibilities in the lessons learned process (Chapter 2);
expands description of the lessons learned collection process (Chapter 3); provides a more
detailed lessons learned resolution process (Chapter 6); expands the roles and responsibilities for
the AFL2P Training program (paragraphs 8.2. thru 8.3.); clarifies after action reporting and
information in the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS, Chapter 9);
incorporates procedures for the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group
(Attachment 1); adds an After Action Report (AAR) Template (Attachment 4).


       1.      PURPOSE. .............................................................................................................    3
Figure 1.      1 Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP). ....................................................................                  4
Figure 1.2.    (Added-AETC) The AFLP in AETC. ....................................................................                       4
       2.      ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                          6
       3.      COLLECTION. .....................................................................................................        10
Figure 3.1.    (Added-AETC) AETC Collection Process. ...........................................................                        10
       4.      VALIDATION. ......................................................................................................       13
Figure 4.1.    (Added-AETC) AETC L2 Validation Process. ......................................................                          13
       5.      DISSEMINATION. ...............................................................................................           14
Figure 5.1.    (Added-AETC) AETC L2 Dissemination Process. ...............................................                              15
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                                                                 3


       6.     RESOLUTION. .....................................................................................................   16
Figure 6.1.   (Added-AETC) AETC L2 Resolution Process. .....................................................                      16
       7.     JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP). ............................................                                  18
       8.     AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING. ...........                                                     18
       9.     JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS). ..................                                                19
       10.    FORMS ADOPTED. .............................................................................................        24

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                    25

Attachment 2—AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING
             GROUP (AF L2 GOSG) CHARTER                                                                                           29

Attachment 3—OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE                                                                               31

Attachment 4—AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE                                                                                         32


1. PURPOSE.
   1.1. Purpose. The AFL2P exists to enhance readiness and improve combat capability by
   capitalizing on the experiences of Airmen. A Lesson Learned (L2) is an Observation that,
   when validated and resolved, results in an improvement in military operations or activities at
   the strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
   individual or an organization. Coupling L2 with past experiences should also assist senior
   leaders in programming, budgeting and allocating resources as well as making changes to
   doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership & education, personnel, facilities and
   policy (DOTMLPF&P). An L2 finding is not a compliance “report card” nor is it
   automatically accepted and implemented without the scrutiny of functional experts. An L2 is
   also not “owned” by any one organization. Rather, the mandate for all organizations
   participating in the AFL2P is to coordinate activities and collaboratively exchange
   Observations and Lessons Identified for the benefit of the total Air Force mission.
   1.2. Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP).
   1.2. (AETC) The AETC L2P exists to enhance education, training, and recruiting, and
   improve combat capability by capitalizing on AETC members‟ experiences. As such, AETC
   leaders and personnel involved in programming, budgeting, and resource allocation require
   access to Air Force and joint lessons in order to make informed Doctrine, Organization,
   Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy
   (DOTMLPF&P) decisions.
       1.2.1. The role of the AFLP is to facilitate the learning of Lessons identified across the
       Air Force. The AFLP has four fundamental components: Collection, Validation,
       Dissemination and Resolution. Figure 1.1 depicts the AFLP.
       1.2.1. (AETC) “Observations” and “Lessons Identified” are not considered “Lessons
       Learned” until validated, disseminated, and resolved for the benefit of all. Figure 1.2
       (Added) illustrates the typical AETC L2P method for implementing the four fundamental
 4                                              AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


      components of the Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP): Collect, Validate, Disseminate,
      Resolve.

Figure 1.1. Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP).




Figure 1.2. (Added-AETC) The AFLP in AETC.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                              5


     1.2.2. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
     Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they
     can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning
     culture, every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
     1.2.2. (AETC) Collection begins with extensive background research on a given topic.
     This may include, but is not limited to, reviewing DoD and USAF
     Directives/Instructions, examining media articles (military and non-military), researching
     the applicable Air Force History Office, and conducting on-line database searches in the
     Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS) and other reputable on-line sources.
     Once background information is gathered, observations are normally determined through
     interviews, surveys, After Action Reports (AAR)s, and JLLIS entries.
     1.2.3. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational expert to
     confirm an Observation has identifiable lessons to be processed through the AFLP. Once
     validated, an Observation is a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g., capability,
     concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
     Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
     community.
     1.2.4. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for action,
     along with making lessons available for wider use. The aim of dissemination is to get
     lessons to decision makers and Airmen in time for them to make more informed
     decisions.
     1.2.4. (AETC) Every opportunity should be taken to disseminate Lessons Identified
     using internal AETC systems, including broad distribution of reports, exploiting mass
     media (Public Affairs, etc.), and briefings to airmen during program/project meetings,
     staff meetings, senior leader summits, Director‟s calls, action officer orientation courses,
     etc. Once Lessons Identified are determined by AETC/A9L, JLLIS is the only formal
     export mechanism for release outside of AETC, in accordance with AFI-90-1601
     guidance. However, AETC‟s other methods of dissemination are, but not limited to,
     published reports, briefings, and USAF media news articles.
     1.2.5. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are addressed to ensure they become Lessons
     Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for action
     (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked to
     closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of
     a validated Observation.
     1.2.5. (AETC) AETC/A9L will manage and track resolutions to a logical conclusion
     through AETC‟s Tasker Management Tool (TMT), and final recommendations recorded
     in JLLIS.
     1.2.6. Each L2 office will establish procedures to monitor the status of Lessons
     Identified and actions taken by Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPRs). The
     monitoring office will ensure periodic updates are annotated in JLLIS. Until
     DOTMLPF&P changes from a Lesson Identified are implemented and become a Lesson
     Learned, OPRs and L2 offices should observe corrective actions and be vigilant for
     similar repeat Observations.
6                                                   AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


       1.2.6. (AETC) Lessons Identified that are validated and not delegated to other AETC
       organizations for resolution will be the responsibility of AETC/A9L. All AETC airmen
       are encouraged to register on JLLIS and monitor it with vigilance in identifying similar
       repeat observations.
       1.2.7. The L2 process is not intended to bypass the chain of command. A structured
       process is in place to review Observations by appropriate JLLIS Tier Managers and
       functional subject matter experts (SMEs).
       1.2.8. Due to their different mission and responsibilities, L2 functions will not be
       combined in the same office with Historians (HO) and/or Inspector General (IG) and/or
       standardization and evaluation (stan/eval) functions. Whereas the IG and stan/eval
       functions are tasked to provide an objective “report card” on organizational compliance,
       L2 functions are collaborative partnerships to capture and share lessons. For similar
       reasons, the L2 program will not be combined with the Safety function at any echelon.
       However, Lessons Identified in both IG and Safety functions should, when possible, be
       sent to the AF L2 Community. In addition, the History function will not be combined
       with the L2 program as historical documentation encompasses operational, maintenance,
       agile combat support and various other command functions. Common source data
       (interviews, AARs, etc.) should be shared between the L2 and HO communities.
       1.2.9. In accordance with CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP),
       JLLIS is the system of record for the Department of Defense and the JLLP. As such,
       Observations and Lessons Identified will ultimately reside in the JLLIS database to the
       maximum extent feasible. To ensure maximum sharing of L2s, JLLIS must be the
       primary vehicle used to implement the AFLP.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. HQ USAF/A9.
       2.1.1. The Director of Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9):
          2.1.1.1. Oversees the AFL2P and AF participation in the JLLP.
          2.1.1.2. Serves as the chief L2 advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief
          of Staff of the Air Force.
          2.1.1.3. Ensures the AFL2P meets the goals of USAF leadership and the needs of
          Airmen and commanders at all levels.
          2.1.1.4. Upon CSAF approval, manages annual CSAF vector-aligned Lessons
          Learned Focus Areas for collection.
          2.1.1.5. Requests each SAF/HAF 2-letter office identify a POC for the AFL2P and
          address their Observations through the AFLP.
       2.1.2. The Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned (AF/A9L):
          2.1.2.1. Provides guidance for the AFLP to include developing standards for major
          activities under the AFL2P.
          2.1.2.2. Serves as the OPR for the AFL2P.
          2.1.2.3. Establishes processes to support guidance contained in this instruction.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                           7


        2.1.2.4. Oversees training and development of members of the Air Force lessons
        learned community.
        2.1.2.5. Ensures ready access to these processes and information through JLLIS.
        2.1.2.6. Assists Air Force organizations in performing L2 activities as required.
        2.1.2.7. Manages the Air Force portion of JLLP online database for collecting,
        storing, tracking and displaying L2 information. Works to maximize joint and multi-
        service sharing of L2 information.
        2.1.2.8. Oversees the AFL2P and JLLIS training program.
        2.1.2.9. Addresses Lessons Identified forwarded by subordinate L2 organizations or
        Observations submitted by the Headquarters Air Force staff.
        2.1.2.10. Tracks AF-level Lessons Identified through       resolution and assists
        information crossflow between OPRs and offices of collateral responsibility (OCRs)
        working their implementation.
        2.1.2.11. Provides AFL2P inputs to HQ USAF corporate processes. Provides the AF
        position to the JLLP and advises the joint community on lessons learned matters.
        2.1.2.12. Collects USAF headquarters-level Lessons Identified from exercises, and
        contingency operations in which the AF Crisis Action Team (AFCAT) participates.
        2.1.2.13. Maintains trained and ready personnel for the AFCAT L2 position.
        2.1.2.14. Accomplishes L2 studies and collection activities, in cooperation with the
        AF History Program research and collection efforts, on specific topics/events as
        directed by senior USAF leadership. Annually implements the CSAF Focus Area
        lesson learned collection plan.
        2.1.2.15. Integrates L2 with the Joint Staff, other service and non-DoD government
        agencies. Integrates L2 activities and processes across the total force to synchronize
        collections and disseminate information quickly.
        2.1.2.16. Analyzes L2 content produced by other members of the L2 community,
        other government organizations and research agencies to extract lessons applicable to
        AF operations not previously reported and/or acted upon.
        2.1.2.17. Reviews AARs and any collection reports to extract and act upon any
        Lessons Identified not previously reported and or acted upon.
        2.1.2.18. Coordinates L2 studies that have operational and basic doctrine
        implications with the LeMay Center.
  2.2. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs.
     2.2.1. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs will designate an organization as lead for L2
     activities, normally designated as A9L. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may designate that
     a subordinate NAF or Center perform all or part of MAJCOM, FOA or DRU-level L2
     functions in accordance with their respective supplement to this AFI.
8                                                AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


    2.2.1. (AETC) AETC/A9L is the command lessons learned manager. HQ AETC
    directorates and special staff will support the AETC L2P as requested. Wing-level issues
    that do not affect other AETC units should be worked at the lowest level.
    2.2.2. The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 organization will:
       2.2.2.1. Serve as OPR for the L2 program.
       2.2.2.1. (AETC) AETC/A9L will guide subordinate AETC organizations and advise
       HQ AETC command staff on L2 issues. In addition, AETC/A9L will coordinate air,
       space, and cyberspace operational strategy and doctrine L2 with other MAJCOMs
       and the LeMay Center at Air University (AU).
       2.2.2.2. Ensure L2 collection processes are established implemented. Ensure AARs
       are submitted and Lessons Identified are addressed for major operations,
       contingencies, key exercises, experiments and other significant events and topics
       identified by leadership.
       2.2.2.3. Enter Observations and AARs into JLLIS NLT 30 days after the event.
       2.2.2.3. (AETC) The AETC organization responsible for generating an AAR is
       responsible for entering it into JLLIS NLT 30 days after the event. AETC/A9L will
       provide JLLIS support as needed.
       2.2.2.4. Establish a process to validate Observations and share Lessons Identified.
       2.2.2.5. Share L2 products Lessons Identified with other MAJCOMs, NAFs and
       lower echelons through the AFL2P .
       2.2.2.6. Elevate to AF/A9L any Lessons Identified with cross-AF implications or that
       are beyond the scope of the organization‟s authority to address.
       2.2.2.7. When designated as the Air Force Component to a Unified Combatant
       Command (UCC), participate in both the AFL2P and in the UCC‟s L2 process (as the
       air component). These roles overlap as AF organizations may have an interest in
       operational lessons originating in other AORs and the UCC may have an interest in
       AF initiatives that can improve operations in that theater.
       2.2.2.7. (AETC) AETC/A9L will conduct or assist with L2 collections of personnel
       deployed to an AOR from AETC.
       2.2.2.8. Facilitate the expedient up-channeling of AARs and Lessons Identified
       through the AFL2P and the UCC L2 process as appropriate.
       2.2.2.9. Represent their organization‟s participation in or provide input to AF/A9L
       for L2 activities.
       2.2.2.10. Participate with HAF, MAJCOM, Joint and Interagency L2 activities.
       2.2.2.11. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A-Staff and special staff planning teams
       to incorporate applicable lessons to support the full spectrum of military operations.
       2.2.2.12. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU teams across all functional areas to
       coordinate policy, tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP) and operational strategy,
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                          9


         and with the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education to coordinate
         doctrine development.
         2.2.2.13. Provide Fiscal Year plans and schedules to AF/A9L for publication by
         1 Sep each year, and provide updates as they are available.
     2.2.3. (Added-AETC) HQ AETC A-staffs, AU, Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS),
     and AETC-assigned Numbered Air Force (NAF) responsibilities include the following:
         2.2.3.1. (Added-AETC) Organizations should identify a Tier 2 Lessons Learned
         Point of Contact (POC) to provide timely, pertinent L2 information to AETC decision
         makers and personnel.
         2.2.3.2. (Added-AETC) Validate observations tasked by AETC/A9L, provide
         recommendations by agreed upon suspenses, and implement lessons in areas for
         which they are the Organization of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
         2.2.3.3. (Added-AETC) Assess subordinate unit observations and forward validated
         lessons to AETC/A9L while working lessons within AU, AFRS, or NAF scope. The
         AU Lessons Learned OPR will employ curriculum review and revision processes, and
         appropriate Subject Matter Expert (SME) guidance to validate and share lessons with
         AU students. Implementation may include revamping courses, changing procedures,
         realigning organizations, or doctrine instruction, and will probably require
         subordinate unit/organization action. Curriculum additions or changes may require
         vetting through the Air Force Learning Committee (AFLC) before implementation. If
         AU determines vetting through the AFLC is necessary, AU will inform AETC/A9L.
         2.2.3.4. (Added-AETC) AU will accomplish collections and AARs for major
         operations, contingencies, key exercises, experiments, and other significant events
         and topics identified by AETC and AU leaders, and will enter/post L2 data and
         information to the JLLIS Web site NLT 30 days after collection is complete.
  2.3. All Airmen.
  2.3. (AETC) All AETC airmen and DoD civilian employees with CAC access are
  encouraged to register on the on-line JLLIS database, but it is essential for airmen tasked
  with writing an AAR, or those involved in a new program or project, to register and search
  the JLLIS database for previous Lessons Identified/Learned or to enter new observations. It
  is vital for program managers, team members, and airmen to check for applicable past
  lessons documented in JLLIS before embarking on any new program or project. Register on
  NIPRNET (https://www.jllis.mil/usaf) or SIPRNET (http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf).
     2.3.1. All Airmen are encouraged to enter Observations that contain potential lessons
     into JLLIS for coordination through the AFLP and/or inform the local chain of command
     as appropriate.
     2.3.2. Individuals or organizations lacking access to the JLLIS website may use AF IMT
     Forms 4329 and 4330 (Attachments 3 and 4) to record their Observations and e-mail
     them directly to the appropriate NAF, MAJCOM, or HQ USAF-level L2 office. Both
     forms are avaliable online at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
 10                                                 AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


3. COLLECTION.
   3.1. Purpose. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
   Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they can be
   “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning culture,
   every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
      3.1.1. (Added-AETC) Process. Figure 3.1 (Added) illustrates the AETC L2 collection
      process. JLLIS observations originate from internal and external sources. There are
      several potential internal sources, but all observations will be reviewed by AETC/A9L as
      the AETC Tier 1 administrator for JLLIS. The two main external collection sources are
      higher headquarters taskings and other MAJCOM L2 transfers. Joint lessons can be
      internal or external, and generally require a service-specific determination. Immediately
      forward joint issues to AETC/A9L, which will forward the lessons to AF/A9L.

Figure 3.1. (Added-AETC) AETC Collection Process.




   3.2. Types of Collections.
      3.2.1. After action collection to capture important events. Reconstructs specific events or
      combat operations after the fact to gain a better understanding of the event‟s successes
      and challenges. AFLP allows an organization to capture historical events and share
      lessons gained from participants‟ knowledge and experience, even though the Lessons
      Identified may already be resolved and no further actions are required. This can be done
      in partnership with historians but is not intended to duplicate their work.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                            11


     3.2.1. (AETC) Forward lessons from important events (real-world incidents, warfare,
     contingencies, etc.) immediately up to AETC/A9L.
     3.2.2. Event collection. Captures the facts and participant Observations regarding a
     combat or non-combat event as it occurs. The collection can occur at the strategic,
     operational, and/or tactical level. Examples include exercises, such as RED FLAG, or
     contingencies, such as Hurricane Katrina or Operation UNIFIED ASSISTANCE. Event
     collections may be accomplished two ways:
         3.2.2.1. Participative collection. The L2 staff performs two roles during the event.
         First, they participate in the unit‟s operational battle rhythm, attend staff meetings,
         man the Crisis Action Team and/or provide real-time inputs to the commander‟s
         planning and decision process. Second, the staff forms teams to collect data at the
         tactical, operational and/or strategic levels. Large-scale operations, such as disaster
         relief operations, might involve teams from HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, NAFs, other
         Services and UCCs collecting data either independently or in concert based on goals.
         3.2.2.2. Observational collection. An L2 team records the organizational structures,
         processes and resources used to accomplish an infrequent, noncombat event so that
         tacit knowledge gained during the event can be explicitly documented, stored and
         retrieved for later use during similar events (e.g., Quadrennial Defense Review
         [QDR] Process).
     3.2.3. Topical collection. This collection focuses on a specific subject or cyclic process
     (e.g., surveys, Focus Areas, etal) based on an L2 organization‟s desire to further examine
     or collect information about a certain topic.
     3.2.4. Observations and Lessons Identified through event collections and topical
     collections will be entered into JLLIS for validation, dissemination and resolution. JLLIS
     is the system of record for the AF L2 process and may be used by any Airman. JLLIS is
     the central repository for Observations, Lessons Identified, AARs and other L2 reports.
  3.3. Techniques and Tools. L2 collections can employ the full range of techniques and
  tools, tailoring them to the specific situation. Techniques and tools include direct
  observation, in-person interviews, commanders‟ exit interviews, surveys, database
  submissions by participants, AARs, data and database mining and document capturing.
  Sharing of data between L2 professionals, historians and other learning organizations is
  highly encouraged to coordinate on collection dissemination, especially via the JLLIS online
  database.
  3.4. General L2 Collection Approach.
     3.4.1. When possible, collections should be coordinated in advance with involvement of
     trained L2 staff. Collections on many important events (warfare, contingencies, etc.) are
     often conducted with little or no notice. Individuals must be trained on collection
     techniques and prepared to apply them at any time.
     3.4.2. Where possible, an L2 collection within an organization‟s Area of Responsibility
     (AOR) should be augmented as required by other L2 offices and SMEs. For most
     collections, SMEs and functional area experts are better suited to observe and document
     employment of their respective processes.
12                                                 AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


     3.4.3. The L2 office (at any level) will normally lead collection efforts. AF/A9L
     participation with other L2 organizations in CSAF-directed/multi-service/joint collections
     permits better access senior leadership and documents broader perspectives.
  3.5. Observation Submission Procedures.
     3.5.1. AFLP procedures standardize Observation submission and management at all AF
     echelons. Observation submission procedures consist of collecting Observations of
     events and operations, reviewing and entering them in JLLIS. Lower echelons will
     address Observations at their level and forward those beyond their scope to the
     appropriate level.
     3.5.2. Observation submission procedures apply to all units either conducting their day-
     to-day mission or participating in real world operations and/or exercises (e.g., combat
     operations, humanitarian operations, base closures, peacekeeping operations,
     noncombatant evacuations, exercises, etc.).
     3.5.3. Observations should flow from the reporting individual and agency to the
     reviewing office or functional expert and, if required, to the next-level L2 office.
  3.6. After Action Report (AAR) Reporting.
     3.6.1. After Action reports (AARs) are intended to help Airmen fight a smarter, more
     capable fight. The next Airmen to deploy, to participate in that exercise, to train for that
     type contingency, etc., should benefit from reports submitted by those who have gone
     before. Timely submission of AARs (and the individual Observations which comprise
     them) are a command responsibility. Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF)
     commanders, commanders of subordinate AETF units, exercise/experiment directors, and
     other like commanders/directors are expected to submit a unit-level AAR for the event
     (deployment, contingency, exercise, etc.) for which they are responsible. AARs are
     posted in JLLIS and accessable to all registered users.
     3.6.2. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in military
     operations at the strategic, operational, or tactical level. AAR Observations should
     describe how the mission could be/was improved, potential risks to mission degradation
     and how to mitigate those risks. AARs are intended to be more than a summary or rollup
     of unit/tactical actions. Commanders/directors are not required to hold Observations until
     the end of an operation, exercise or AEF cycle to be included in an AAR. Whenever
     possible, AARs should be submitted as soon as practical to permit timely action.
     3.6.3. Units participating in operations as part of a continuous AEF cycle will submit
     AARs to their respective HHQ NLT than 45 days following the end of their deployment.
     AFFOR staff and AOC staff will also submit periodic AARs for continuous AEF
     operations (e.g., OEF). Individual Observations deserving urgent attention should not be
     delayed for inclusion in the next AAR but should be forwarded up the chain of command
     as soon as sufficient information is gathered. The goal is to get the information to the
     next set of deployers and/or HHQ staff decision makers quickly for action/resolution.
     3.6.4. AARs for operations not supported by a continuing AEF cycle, contingencies and
     exercises will be submitted to HHQ NLT 30 days after the end of the event unless
     otherwise directed.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                                13


      3.6.5. Owning organizations will review AARs to pull Observations for processing
      through the AFLP and post AARs to JLLIS. Lessons Identified during the review will be
      entered in JLLIS and disseminated to the appropriate OPR for information and resolution.
4. VALIDATION.
   4.1. Purpose. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational experts
   to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed through the AFLP.
   Once validated, an Observation becomes a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g.,
   capability, concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
   Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
   community. Validation ensures accuracy, applicability, and completeness, and activates the
   Observation in JLLIS. The goal of the validation process is to get to root causes.
      4.1.1. (Added-AETC) Process. Figure 4.1 (Added) illustrates the AETC L2P
      validation process and indicates that validation generally takes place at the HQ AETC,
      AU, or AFRS level.

Figure 4.1. (Added-AETC) AETC L2 Validation Process.




   4.2. Validation Authority.
      4.2.1. The validation authority has a key role in the AFLP. Validation authorities will:
          4.2.1.1. Review Observations for accuracy, applicability and completeness. If
          Observations do not meet these criteria, validation authorities will contact the
          originator for futher clarification.
14                                               AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


         4.2.1.2. Determine if an Observation had previously been addressed. If the
         Observation duplicates previous Observations, it will be manually linked in JLLIS
         with the previous Observations.
         4.2.1.3. Determine the applicable guiding documents (e.g., statute, DoD or AF
         instruction).
         4.2.1.4. Parse Observations to determine DOTMLPF&P actionable areas.
         4.2.1.5. Submit to the appropriate SME for evaluation. Once the SME confirms the
         Observation‟s validity, it is processed as a Lesson Identified. IG, stan/eval or QA
         offices will not be appointed as the evaluation agency.
         4.2.1.6. Ensure Lessons Identified are returned to the originating JLLIS Tier-1
         Administrator and/or Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) for dissemination to
         issue resolution OPRs.
         4.2.1.7. Forward Lessons Identified intended for the HQ USAF staff through JLLIS
         to AF/A9L.
         4.2.1.8. Inform the chain of command as to status of Observations submitted to
         higher level L2 offices.
     4.2.2. Validation SMEs may be instructors, staff functionals, career field functional
     managers, commanders, senior AF leaders or L2 offices.
     4.2.3. Lessons Identified deemed as time-critical and/or mission-critical will be
     concurrently disseminated to other potentially interested organizations and individuals
     where mission impact may occur.
5. DISSEMINATION.
  5.1. Purpose. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
  action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to
  get lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
     5.1.1. Lessons may be disseminated through tasks, briefings, bulletins, reports or
     database entries.
     5.1.1. (AETC) Process. Figure 5.1 (Added) illustrates the AETC L2P collection
     process. AETC‟s primary methods of dissemination are, but not limited to JLLIS entries,
     published reports, briefings, and USAF media news articles.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                            15


Figure 5.1. (Added-AETC) AETC L2 Dissemination Process.




      5.1.2. An OPR will be tasked to either resolve to closure Lessons Identified requiring
      DOTMLPF&P action/changes or ensure Lessons Identified requiring wider dissemination
      to a wider audience are appropriately promulgated.
      5.1.3. An OCR will be assigned as required by the originator of the lesson idenitifed or
      as required by the OPR.
   5.2. Dissemination Techniques.
      5.2.1. The guiding principle in executing a dissemination strategy is to get the right
      information to the right person at the right time. Dissemination of Lessons Identified to
      individuals or organizations may be solicited or unsolicited. Techniques for either type
      of dissemination encompass both „push‟ and „pull‟ methodologies.
         5.2.2.1. “Push” methodologies transmit lessons proactively to identified recipients.
         In this case, L2 specialists identify target audiences for dissemination. Examples of
         when to “push” Lessons Identified are when assisting planning staffs during emerging
         situations (contingencies, relief operations, etc.), assisting headquarters staffs with
         Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) decisions, and when
         sending completed L2 documents such as AARs to identified audiences via a
         subscription service. Push solicited information when responding to a Request for
         Information (RFI). In this case, L2 specialists may push relevant lessons on the
         particular event or topic to the requesting party.
         5.2.2.2. “Pull” methodologies allow individuals to retrieve lessons by conducting
         JLLIS queries or by researching and retrieving published L2 reports and bulletins.
         (The “Daily Digest” feature in JLLIS is a “pull” resource.)
 16                                                  AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


      5.2.3. Other dissemination processes may already exist within lower echelons or
      functional communities. Examples include the Tactics Review Board process and the
      Maintenance Quality Assurance flash process. Integration of Lessons Identified provides
      a mechanism to integrate the AFLP with lower echelon processes.
      5.2.4. Although dissemination activities may be conducted using different approaches,
      the basic process step of identifying action items must take place for each Lesson
      Identified before submittal to the resolution processes or inclusion in publications,
      reports, summaries, briefings and analyses.
6. RESOLUTION.
   6.1. Purpose. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are tracked to ensure they become a
   Lessons Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for
   action (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked
   to closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of a
   validated Observation.
      6.1.1. Resolution has three main objectives:
      6.1.1. (AETC) Process. Figure 6.1 (Added) illustrates the AETC L2P resolution
      process.

Figure 6.1. (Added-AETC) AETC L2 Resolution Process.




          6.1.1.1. Enhance the Air Force‟s and the joint community‟s ability to learn from the
          conduct of operations across the levels of warfare, training activities, exercise events
          and other activities.
          6.1.1.2. Enhance warfighting capabilities by documenting potential solutions across
          DOTMLPF&P approaches and implementation decisions.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                           17


         6.1.1.3. Support Air Force senior leaders as well as a broad range of subject specific
         stakeholders.
  6.2. Tracking Issue Resolution (TIR). TIR ensures Lessons Identified are worked to
  closure. TIR documentation establishes accountability for resolution, monitors resolution
  actions to closure, and provides a means of disseminating Lessons Identified.
  6.2. (AETC) Tracking Issue Resolution (TIR). Refer to current AETC policy and
  guidance (including AETCI 36-2201, Technical and Basic Military Training Evaluation; 36-
  2203, Technical and Basic Military Training Development; 36-2205, Volume 1, Formal
  Training Administration and Management; and 36-2205, Volume 6, Aircrew Training
  Administration and Management [Graduate Fighter]) for lessons that require course
  curriculum updates. The AETC L2P should not duplicate or usurp current curriculum update
  processes. Apply it to curriculum development to enable curriculum owners to resolve
  critical lessons in timely manner. Applicable lessons should support curriculum development
  and help secure resources, if needed.
     6.2.1. AF/A9L will:
         6.2.1.1. Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified between the HAF, Services, Joint
         Staff, UCCs and other government organizations.
         6.2.1.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of AF
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
         6.2.1.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for all HAF
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS MAJCOM Tier-1 Sites.
     6.2.2. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.2.1.   Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified among lower echelons and HQ
     USAF.
         6.2.2.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
         6.2.2.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS NAF/Wing/Center/FOA/DRU Tier-2 CLMs.
     6.2.3. NAF/Center L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.3.1. Maintain a cross-flow of Lessons Identified within their command/ functional
     community.
         6.2.3.2. In conjunction with SMEs, track the status of NAF/Center Lessons
         Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons with
         programmatic implications.
18                                                 AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


         6.2.3.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS Tier-2 CLMs.
  6.3. Closure of Lesson Actions. Lessons Identified that are entered into an organization‟s
  resolution process should be resolved at the lowest level. Actions for Lessons Identified may
  be closed when a solution has been implemented or a decision made to accept the risk of not
  implementing a solution. Closed Lessons Identified will be archived in JLLIS for future
  reference and their final action/determination will be disseminated and periodically reviewed.
7. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP).
  7.1. Purpose. The JLLP is governed by CJCSI 3150.25, Joint Lessons Learned Program.
  In support of the JLLP, the Air Force Lessons Learned Program will:
     7.1.1. Provide and maintain JLLP support for Air Force-specific, tactical, operational
     and strategic level lessons.
     7.1.2. Interact with other stakeholders within the JLLP community on L2 matters.
     7.1.3. Submit Lessons Identified that affect the joint community or requiring joint
     resolution to the Joint Staff.
  7.2. Concept. AF/A9L will:
     7.2.1. Represent the Air Force to the Joint Staff and the JLLP community on JLLP
     matters except when the JLLP matter only applies to a specific UCC. Air Force matters
     only applying to a specific UCC will be represented by the AF component to that UCC.
     7.2.2. Provide personnel and technical expertise to document Lessons Identified, analyze
     causation and impact, train collection team SMEs and coordinate Air Force SME
     participation in JLLP activities.
     7.2.3. Track and coordinate joint Lessons Identified within the AFL2P.
  7.3. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) Integration. L2
  involvement and participation in the JLLP will include:
     7.3.1. Monitoring joint L2 products to include the JCIDS and Joint Staff Action
     Processing systems.
     7.3.2. Assisting HQ USAF MAJCOM offices with Joint L2 submissions and
     DOTMLPF&P Change Request (DCR) development, as required.
8. AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING.
  8.1. Purpose. The purpose of the AFL2P training is to ensure individuals assigned to L2
  offices or as collection team augmentees/SMEs receive appropriate L2 training to understand
  their role in the AFLP.
  8.2. AF Lessons Learned Program Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the
  AFL2P training program. Each L2 office will ensure its training program is up to date with
  material found on the AF Lessons Learned Program website: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf or
  http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf. AF/A9L will provide train-the-trainer services for all aspects
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                          19


  of the AFL2P. Each L2 office will establish guidelines to maintain curreny for members
  supporting their L2 program.
  8.2. (AETC) HQ AETC/A9L is the command L2 training focal point and will provide
  training as needed.
  8.3. L2 Collection Team Training. L2 offices will provide collection team members
  training prior to L2 collection efforts. Training will include collection plan development,
  conduct of interviews, collection management tools (JLLIS, interview management tools,
  etc.), data gathering techniques, product development, and dissemination. L2 collection team
  members and SMEs provide expertise required for a focused collection. The L2 collection
  team lead is responsible for coordinating training with the JLLIS Tier-1 Administrator or
  Tier-2 CLM.
  8.4. JLLIS Training. L2 offices will provide JLLIS training to their orgainzations and
  lower echlons. Local training will emphasize use of JLLIS for capturing and managing
  Observations and Lessons Identified.
9. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS).
  9.1. DoD system of record for JLLP. JLLIS is a web-based system that implements the
  requirements for the JLLP. JLLP provides transfer of knowledge within the DoD through the
  rapid distribution of Observations and recommendations, AARs, TTPs, topic papers,
  briefings and interviews.
  9.2. JLLIS. JLLIS allows Air Force personnel to search, submit and manage all Air Force
  Observations, lessons, AARs, L2 and other information up to SECRET. JLLIS is used to
  track and disseminate Lessons Identified throughout the Air Force and DoD. JLLIS provides
  L2 office management, data collection, data management and L2 information distribution.
  9.3. System Administration.
     9.3.1. AF/A9L is responsible for system administration of the AF JLLIS master site
     through coordination with Joint Staff/J7 and JLLIS programmers.
     9.3.2. The AF/A9 JLLIS Program Manager will update the JLLIS User Guide and
     checklists, maintain a standard training package on the JLLIS home page and update this
     instruction annually or when changes to the system and/or process occur.
  9.4. JLLIS Business Rules.
     9.4.1. The JLLIS community will abide by the CJCSI 3150.25, JLLIS Business Rules
     and the following guidelines in managing their JLLIS operations:
         9.4.1.1. A Tier-1 is at the HAF and MAJCOM level. All other organizations will be
         assigned as a Tier-2. A Lesson Manager is the manager of Observations and Lessons
         Identified at the Tier-1 and Tier-2 level. A SME is a person within a Directorate or
         Command possessing expertise on an Observation, finding, issue, or Lesson
         Identified.
         9.4.1.2. Validation Process. Tier-1 and Tier-2 Lesson Managers and SMEs will
         review all “Pending” lessons within their Tier. Once an Observation is deemed valid,
         the Tier-1 or Tier-2 Lesson Manager will activate the Observation as a Lesson
         Identified and transfer it to the appropriate OPR/OCR for review. Observations that
20                                                AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


        require work within the Tier will be coordinated through the Tier-1/Tier-2 CLM or
        the appropriate OPR/OCR.
        9.4.1.3. Coordinating Observations Outside a Tier-1. Tier-1 Lesson Managers will
        work together toward resolving an Observation‟s ownership. If the OPR/OCR for an
        Observation belongs to another Tier-1, the owning Tier-1 Admin will contact the
        appropriate Tier-1 Admin for coordination before transferring. Once transferred, the
        accepting Tier-1 assumes responsibility for the Observation. If it is found that the
        OPR/OCR is incorrect, the process will begin again. If ownership cannot be resolved
        at the Tier-1 level, AF/A9L will resolve ownership. All Lessons Identified will be
        worked through to resolution.
  9.5. Disputes between Tiers.
     9.5.1. As Lesson Managers receive Observations submitted by JLLIS users, there may be
     occasions where a Tier-2 is not appropriate to validate that Observation. In these cases,
     the Tier-2 Lesson Manager will transfer the Observation to their Tier-1 for reassignment.
     When doing this, include results of any coordination in the “comment” section of the
     Observation in JLLIS.
     9.5.2. When Observation reassignments between Tier-2 CLMs are disputed, the issue
     should be brought to the attention of the MAJCOM L2 Director to render a recommended
     assignment. If the dispute continues, the MAJCOM L2 Director will present it to
     AF/A9L for L2 GOSG review and coordination. The L2 GOSG is chaired by the
     AF/CVA. The AF/CVA will serve as final arbiter of disputed Observations assignments
     if necessary.
  9.6. JLLIS Maintenance.
     9.6.1. Tier Maintenance. All Tier-1 Administrators should perform periodic Tier
     maintenance. Maintenance includes reviewing the status of “Active” Observations. Any
     Observations that have not been worked in more than 30 days should be reviewed and
     readdressed by the Tier-1 or Tier-2 CLM through the OPR/OCR for resolution, closure or
     removal from the database.
        9.6.1.1. Observations that should be removed include the following: “Test
        Observations,” Observations that are incomplete or unfocused, complaints or personal
        attacks.
        9.6.1.2. Test Binders and AARs should also be removed periodically to keep the Tier
        free of unnecessary information.
     9.6.2. MAJCOMs or NAFs that are an air component to a UCC may be asked by the
     UCC to participate in the UCC L2 program. Component MAJCOMs and NAFs will
     participate in their UCC‟s L2 program as directed by UCC policy and are authorized to
     coordinate Observations directly with their responsible UCC. Coordination may be
     conducted by emailing the Observation to the UCC JLLIS Administrator or by entering
     the Observation on the UCC JLLIS site.
     9.6.3. MAJCOMs not a component of a UCC will forward Observations requiring Joint,
     DoD Agency or UCC coordination to the HAF Tier-1 or the appropriate MAJCOM/C-
     NAF. The HAF Tier-1 Administrator will notify the responsible action officer/SME who
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                           21


     will review and validate the Observation with their Joint, Agency or UCC point of
     contact and assume responsibility for tracking the Observation through to resolution.
     9.6.4. JLLIS website status updates are the responsibility of the AF/A9L action
     officer. Updates are available upon request through the responsible AF/A9L action
     officer.
  9.7. JLLIS Configuration Review Board (CRB).
     9.7.1. The JLLIS CRB will be held semiannually as part of the AF L2 Community
     Conference. The AF CRB will be scheduled to allow sufficient time to address AF
     requirements prior to the Joint CRB.
     9.7.2. The Board will review action items from the previous Board, configuration issues,
     modifications and business rules. Each Tier-1 Administrator will have an opportunity to
     provide input during the Air Force JLLIS CRB. New JLLIS technologies will also be
     reviewed during the Technical Sessions of the Air Force L2 Community Conference.
     9.7.3. The Air Force JLLIS CRB is chaired by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
     Tier-1 Administrators and the Recorder are voting members of the CRB. Members of the
     Joint Staff/J7 have a standing invitation to attend. This courtesy is also extended to the
     other members of the Air Force JLLIS and L2 community.
     9.7.4. Each Tier-1 Administrator is responsible to collect input(s) from their respective
     Tier-2s for the Air Force CRB prior to the conference. The purpose is to provide an
     opportunity for Administrators to speak/vote for the actions that affect their Tier. The
     Tier-2 CLMs are not voting members of the Air Force CRB. In the event of a tie during
     the voting process, the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager will cast the deciding vote.
     9.7.5. All Air Force CRB items that impact the other JLLIS master sites must go before
     the Joint Staff/J7 and the Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference (WJTSC)
     CRB for review and approval. The AF JLLIS Program Manager will represent the Air
     Force during the WJTSC on all Air Force JLLIS related issues. Results from the WJTSC
     will be shared and reviewed by the JLLIS L2 community.
  9.8. Network Security.
     9.8.1. Joint Staff/J7 policy and guidance for NIPRNET JLLIS only allows access to
     Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States (ACGU) personnel and Foreign
     Exchange Officers / LNOs sponsored and/or assigned to DoD organizations. United
     States Government has a National Disclosure Policy for SIPRNET. The following
     information is in accordance with Joint Staff/J7 guidance pending release of formal DoD
     guidance for JLLIS:
        9.8.1.1. JLLIS information is considered For Official Use Only (FOUO). If there is a
        requirement to convert/migrate FOUO data to a DoD-wide system of Controlled
        Unclassified Information (CUI), the FOUO marking of JLLIS products will help
        prevent commercial access but allow access to those with valid requirements and
        registration (soft certs).
        9.8.1.2. DoD Instruction 8110.1, Multinational Information Sharing Networks
        Implementation, February 6, 2004 implements policy and designates the MNIS
        Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System (MNIS CENTRIXS) as
22                                               AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


        the DoD standard for multinational information sharing networks using the Global
        Information Grid (GIG).
     9.8.2. ACGU personnel assigned to or sponsored by a DoD organization and issued a
     Common Access Card (CAC) permitting access to the DoD computer network/system are
     authorized access to JLLIS. These members are authorized to register in JLLIS as
     members of their assigned and sponsoring DoD organization.
        9.8.2.1. Registration is validated and controlled through the organizations‟ security
        office and approved by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.8.2.2. ACGU personnel who are validated and authorized access to the US DoD
        SIPRNET are authorized access to JLLIS on SIPRNET. (i.e., DoDD 8500.01,
        Information Assurance, paragraph 4.8. - 4.9.1)
     9.8.3. AF/A9L guidance concerning loading, access, and release of JLLIS information
     for both sites is IAW Air Force and Joint Staff Network Security Guidance. SIPRNET:
     http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf and NIPRNET: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf. For any
     questions or concerns please contact the JLLIS Program Manager,
     afa9jllis@pentagon.af.mil.
  9.9. JLLIS Tier-1 Administrators and Tier-2 Command Lesson Managers.
     9.9.1. Tier-1 Administrators will:
        9.9.1.1. Be appointed by the MAJCOM L2 Director and the names sent forward to
        the AF/A9L JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.9.1.2. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., permission upgrade requests and system
        malfuncations and modifcation recommendations) to the Air Force JLLIS Program
        Manager for coordination, review and resolution.
        9.9.1.3. Have one vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
        9.9.1.4. Establish and certify Tier-2 CLMs.
        9.9.1.5. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
        teams, Tier-2 Lesson Managers or other authorized users.
        9.9.1.6. Send name, contact information and graphics for the Tier-2 CLM, to the AF-
        JLLIS Program Manager (AF/A9L) for review, approval and implementation. A
        Tier-2 site cannot be authorized in JLLIS without approval of the applicable Tier-1
        Administrator.
        9.9.1.7. Provide JLLIS and collection guidance for all Tier-2 CLMs assigned within
        the HAF/MAJCOM Tier-1.
        9.9.1.8. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
        (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
        9.9.1.9. At a minimum, conduct Tier maintenance as required to maintain currency.
        Guidelines for Observation and Tier maintenance should be developed locally based
        on the needs of the command and mission requirements.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                           23


     9.9.2. Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) will:
         9.9.2.1. Consist of a primary and alternate            to   be   appointed   by   the
         Commander/Director to manage the Tier-2.
         9.9.2.2. Be identified by their MAJCOM/A9 Tier-1 Administrator to the AF/A9L
         JLLIS Program Manager.
         9.9.2.3. Not vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
         9.9.2.4. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
         teams or other authorized users.
         9.9.2.5. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., issues and permissions) to their Tier-1
         Administrator for coordination, review and resolution.
         9.9.2.6. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
         (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
  9.10. Tracking Database Management. L2 organizations will use JLLIS to archive and
  track their Observations and Lessons Identified action items. Exception: organizations with a
  requirement to track lessons on coalition partner networks may use other methods as
  required. Organizations using stand-alone methods should transfer lessons with broader AF
  equity to JLLIS to ensure they are accessible by the widest possible AF and DoD audience.
  9.11. JLLIS Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the JLLIS training program.
  The AF-JLLIS Program Manager is available to provide formal JLLIS training classes for
  Tier-1 Administrators, Tier-2 CLMs and personnel assigned to HAF. Each L2 office will
  establish guidelines for JLLIS training currency and a method to track training completion.
     9.11.1. The Tier-1 Administrators JLLIS training program consists of training newly
     assigned Tier-2 CLMs, establishing a Tier-1 training program for use throughout the
     command, as well as conducting classroom and over-the-shoulder training sessions
     locally through recurring sessions or just-in-time training as required.
     9.11.2. Tier-2 CLMs will provide training for NAF and lower echelon personnel. If the
     Tier-1 has no Tier-2 CLMs assigned, overall training for NAF and/or lower echelon
     personnel remains the responsibility of the Tier-1 Administrator.
     9.11.3. Tier-1/2 training should cover coordinating and tracking Observations through
     the AFLP. Training will include tracking a lesson to resolution and basic authorized
     JLLIS user training. Training should include the command‟s local process based on
     command guidance through a tutorial or a locally developed training course.
     9.11.4. MAJCOM/A9L offices will provide their personnel basic authorized JLLIS user
     training, Tier-1 Administrator training for newly assigned Administrator/Managers and
     Tier-2 CLM training.
     9.11.5. Basic Authorized JLLIS User Training is provided by AF/A9L, Tier-1
     Administrator/ Manager or Tier-2 CLMs. This training is for new JLLIS users who will
     use the system on a recurring basis for research, submitting Observations, AARs, etc.
     Basic user training information is also posted on the JLLIS home page.
24                                            AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


10. FORMS ADOPTED.
  10.1. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
  10.2. AF IMT 4329, Observation or Lesson Learned (NIPR)
  10.3. AF IMT 4329A, Observation or Lesson Learned (SIPR)
  10.4. AF IMT 4330, After Action Summary Report (NIPR)
  10.5. AF IMT 4330A, After Action Summary Report (SIPR)




                                       Dr. JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN
                                       Director, Studies, & Analyses, Assessments, and
                                       Lessons Learned

                                       (AETC)

                                       MARK C. NOWLAND, Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Director of Plans, Programs, Requirements and
                                       Assessments
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                    25


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program, 10 Oct 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFPD 90-16, Air Force Studies, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned, 4 Jun 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
ACGU—Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Forces
AEG—Air and Space Expeditionary Group
(Added-AETC) AETC—Air Education and Training Command
(Added-AETC) AETC L2P—AETC Lessons Learned Program
(Added-AETC) AETC/A9L—AETC Lessons Learned Division
AETF—Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force
AEW—Air and Space Expeditionary Wing
AF—Air Force
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFL2P—AF Lessons Learned Program
AFLP—Air Force Lessons Process
(Added-AETC) AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AOR—Area of Responsibility
(Added-AETC) AU—Air University
CAC—Common Assess Card
CLM—Command Lessons Manager
C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
CRB—Configuration Review Board
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DCR—DOTMLPF Change Request
 26                                              AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


(Added-AETC) DoD—Department of Defense
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GOSG—General Officer Steering Group
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
IR—Issue Resoulution
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JET—Joint Expeditionary Tasking
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
JLLP—Joint Lessons Learned Program
LI—Lessons Identified
LNO—Liaison Officer
L2—Lesson Learned
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
(AETC) NAF—Numbered Air Force
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-AETC) POC—Point of Contact
PR—Periodic Report
RFI—Request For Information
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—Subject Matter Expert
Stan/Eval—Standardization/Evaluation
TIR—Tracking Issue Resolution
(Added-AETC) TMT—Tasker Management Tool
TTPs—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UCC—Unified Combatant Command
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                                   27


USAF—United States Air Force
WJTSC—Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference

Terms
Active—A status of a Lesson Identified indicating that the lesson is currently being worked to
resolution by a DOTMLPF&P OPR.
After Action Report (AAR)—The AAR is a consolidated report that includes an executive
summary covering the event information (e.g., dates, locations, and participants) and
Observations. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in
military operations. AAR Observations should describe how the mission could be/was
improved, potential risks to mission degradation and how to mitigate those risks.
Collection—Collection is a method by which Observations enter the AFLP and involves formal
and informal methods. Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection
efforts or they can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individual Airmen.
In a learning culture, every Airman, civilian and contractor contribute to the AFLP.
Dissemination—Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to get
lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy are factors that implement senior leader guidance and lead to the
development and employment of joint force capabilities.
Lesson Identified—A validated Observation that represents a matter (e.g., capability, concept,
process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson Identified contains a
better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader organization.
Lesson Learned—An insight gained that improves military operations or activities at the
strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
individual or an organization.
Observation—An input from any source into the AFLP. Observations contain information
regarding specific events, activities, circumstances or outcomes and should include sufficient
factual and contextual information to support their validation.
Resolution—Process to ensure Lessons Identified are staffed for action. Resolution actions
should be captured in JLLIS or appropriate documents and tracked to closure.
System of Record (SoR)—An information storage system (commonly implemented on a
computer system), which is the authoritative data source for a given data element or piece of
information. The need to identify systems of record can become acute in organizations where
management information systems have been built by taking output data from multiple source
systems, re-processing this data, and then re-presenting the result for a new business use. Where
the integrity of the data is vital, a data element must either be linked to, or extracted directly from
its system of record. The integrity and validity of any data set is open to question when there is
no traceable connection with a known System of Record.
 28                                               AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


Validation—Process to ensure an Observation is reviewed by staff functionals and/or
operational experts to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed
through the AFLP.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                                                        29


                                        Attachment 2
 AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING GROUP (AF L2
                         GOSG) CHARTER

A2.1. Purpose. The GOSG is a forum for senior leaders to discuss operational and strategic
level lessons and to shape AFL2P activities.
A2.2. Concept. AF/A9 sponsors an AF/CVA-chaired annual meeting attended by HQ USAF
senior leaders, MAJCOM/CVs and other invited senior leaders. This meeting provides a means
for senior leaders to:
   A2.2.1. Enhance the understanding of L2 from the conduct of operations, exercises and
   contingencies.
   A2.2.2. Inform key process owners of important L2 information that can be used for their
   decisions.
   A2.2.3. Review current CSAF L2 focus areas, status of any associated lessons and proposed
   topics for future CSAF L2 focus areas.
A2.3. Membership:
   A2.3.1. Chair: AF/CVA
   A2.3.2. Co-chair: AF/A9
   A2.3.3. SAF: XC, LL, IA, IG
   A2.3.4. AF: A1, A2, A3/5, A4/7, A8, A9, A10, HC, HO, JA, SE, SG
   A2.3.5. MAJCOM/CVs, NGB/CF
   A2.3.6. LeMay Center/CC, USAFWC/CC, USAFEC/CC
   A2.3.7. AFDW/CV
   A2.3.8. Others as required by the meeting agenda
A2.4. Roles and Responsibilities:
   A2.4.1. AF/CVA chairs the meeting.
   A2.4.2. AF/A9 develops the agenda and content for approval.
   A2.4.3. GOSG members discuss L2 and associated topics for their functional areas.
   A2.4.4. Selected members and guests provide highlights of their L2 activities.
   A2.4.5.1.    AF/A9L serves as GOSG secretariat to organize meetings and accomplish
   follow-on tasks.
A2.5. Timing and Venue:
   A2.5.1. Annual, preferably pre-CORONA
   A2.5.2. HQ USAF (Secure VTC for members outside National Capitol Region)
 30                                                 AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


A2.6. AF Stakeholder GOSG Role:
   A2.6.1. Stakeholders GOSGs are formed as advocacy groups related to specific reports or
   threads designated under CSAF Focus Areas.
   A2.6.2. Stakeholder GOSG members will advise collection team members on content of
   specific collections and preview designated reports at the GO/SES level prior to more general
   distribution.
   A2.6.3. Stakeholder GOSG members will validate Observations, advocate for issue
   resolution, implement solutions and incorporate lessons within their area of functional or
   operational responsibility.
AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012                     31


                              Attachment 3
             OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE
32                     AFI 90-1601_AETCSUP_I 24 MAY 2012


              Attachment 4
     AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE
