BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-105
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             2 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                      Safety

                                                                CRITICAL COMPONENTS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.miL for ordering or downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AFSEC/SEWN                                                          Certified by: AF/SE
                                                                 (Maj. Gen Kurt F. Neubauer)
                                                                                     Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFI 91-105, 7 January 2011


This Instruction implements AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety. This publication
is consistent with AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. It outlines requirements for
transporting, storing, handling, and using critical components and explains the process for
certifying and decertifying critical components. It applies to all individuals at all levels,
including Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) units who perform operations,
maintenance, security, or logistics movement of critical components. For guidance on other
Nuclear Weapons Related Material (NWRM) see AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related
Materiel Management. Send major command (MAJCOM) supplements to this Instruction to
AFSEC/SEW at HQAFSECSEW@kirtland.af.mil or 9700 G Avenue, Kirtland AFB NM
87117-5670 for coordination before publication. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Requests
for waivers must be submitted through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.
 2                                                                 AFI91-105 2 AUGUST 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision clarified that the Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group can review decisions made
by the AF/SE to designate weapon system components as critical components and decisions
made to designate split-handling or split-knowledge procedures. Also changed combination lock
options for entrance into no-lone zones and made organizational/administrative changes. It also
incorporates new AFI 33-360 guidance to include Tier waiver requirements.

Section A—General Information

1. Air Force Goal. To prevent unauthorized activation of critical functions, as specified in AFI
91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear Weapon
Systems, the Air Force develops positive measures to protect against inherent risks and threats
and to ensure components are compatible with the assembled nuclear weapon system.
1.1. A critical component is a component of a nuclear weapon system that if bypassed,
activated, or tampered with could result in or contribute to deliberate or inadvertent
authorizing, prearming, arming, or launch of a combat delivery vehicle carrying a nuclear
weapon or the targeting of a nuclear weapon to other than its planned target.

Section B—General Responsibilities

2. Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE). AF/SE establishes requirements to designate, certify
and manage the critical component process and directs AFSEC/SEW to:
     2.1. Designate critical components (when not designated by the AF Nuclear Weapon System
     Safety Group (NWSSG)).
     2.2. Designate split-handling or split-knowledge procedures for critical components if not
     previously determined or if procedures proposed or in use are determined by AFSEC/SEW to
     be inadequate (when not designated by the AF NWSSG).
     2.3. Approve Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Operational Certification
     (OPCERT)/Operational Decertification (DECERT) and procedural controls for critical
     components.
     2.4. Approve vaults and containers used to store critical components (see paragraph 12).
     2.5. Nuclear safety design certify Tamper Detection Indicators (TDI) per AFI 91-103, Air
     Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, and approve their use to protect the
     certification status of critical components.
3. Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC):
     3.1. Commander, AFNWC oversees and manages the Air Force nuclear certification process
     and grants nuclear certification to critical components upon completion of all required
     nuclear certification actions IAW AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program.
     3.2. AFNWC/NCSS supports the AFNWC/CC in fulfilling this nuclear certification
     responsibility through the AFNWC/NCSC Certification Branch as follows:
        3.2.1. Ensures TDI and designated critical components are properly nuclear certified
        IAW AFI 63-125, as appropriate.
AFI91-105 2 AUGUST 2013                                                                            3


       3.2.2. Ensures Nuclear Certification Impact Statements (NCIS) affecting designated
       critical components and TDIs are coordinated with AFSEC/SEW to determine
       appropriate nuclear safety design certification requirements.
       3.2.3. Ensures designated critical components are properly identified in the Master
       Nuclear Certification List (MNCL).
4. Air Force Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group. The AF NWSSG reviews nuclear
weapon system designs and operations to determine if they meet the DoD Nuclear Weapon
System Safety Standards. It proposes safety rules and recommends changes to improve nuclear
weapon system surety. Specifically, the AF NWSSG:
   4.1. Designates which nuclear weapon system components are critical and reviews those
   designated by AF/SE.
   4.2. Designates which nuclear certified critical components require split-handling or split-
   knowledge procedures and reviews those designated by AF/SE.
   4.3. Designates split-handling or split-knowledge procedures during the lifecycle of the
   nuclear weapon system critical component and reviews those designated by AF/SE. See AFI
   91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, for definitions of split-handling and
   split-knowledge.
   4.4. Reviews and, if required, updates weapon system safety rules.
5. Operational Commands and Affected Organizations:
   5.1. Implement split-handling and split-knowledge control procedures. (T-0).
   5.2. Operationally certify critical components as required by approved Technical Order
   procedures before using them in operational nuclear weapon systems.
   5.3. Decertify critical components according to AFI 91-103 and associated Technical
   Orders.
   5.4. Control certified critical components according to Section D of this Instruction. (T-0).
6. Implementing Command or Organization. The command or organization responsible for
procuring or modifying a nuclear weapon system must:
   6.1. Notify AFSEC/SEW of weapon system modifications that impact current critical
   components by submitting a NCIS to the AFNWC/NCS.
   6.2. Recommend items for critical component status to AFSEC/SEW.
   6.3. Recommend OPCERT and DECERT concepts and Technical Order procedures of
   critical components to AFSEC/SEW. Recommend decertification of critical components
   when component is no longer part of an assembled nuclear weapon system.

Section C—Designating and Marking Critical Components

7. Designating Critical Components. Critical components must receive nuclear certification
IAW AFI 63-125 and be listed in the MNCL.
   7.1. All items designated as critical components must pass operational certification
   procedures before use.
 4                                                                 AFI91-105 2 AUGUST 2013


     7.2. Items designated as a critical component will be clearly identified as a critical
     component in the MNCL.
     7.3. The National Security Agency (NSA) may request critical component designation for
     NSA-produced software and hardware used with a nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon
     system. The NSA-provided software and hardware items receive certification equal to that
     provided by the Air Force and therefore do not need additional Air Force design certification.
8. Marking Critical Components. A Command using critical components identifies those
requiring Two-Person Concept control with designated labels or tags. Use the following
guidelines for all other critical components:
     8.1. Affix the label (or tag, if the component is too small for a label) to the outside of the
     critical component or the component’s shipping container. (T-0). ICBM units will use tags
     for all ICBM code components, while outside of shipping containers. (T-0).
     8.2. Remove or cover the label or tag when the component is not certified for operational use
     (T-0).
     8.3. Do not use external markings to identify areas, facilities, aircraft, or equipment as
     containing critical components (e.g. adding identifying paint stripe). (T-0).

Section D—Controlling Critical Components

9. Two-Person Concept. The Two-Person Concept protects a part of each critical component’s
life cycle. This minimizes the possibility that an unauthorized or inadvertent act could degrade
the nuclear surety of a nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon system. Two-Person Concept control
for a critical component may begin at the time of production and continue until the critical
component’s destruction or may occur during any interim period. Complete the following tasks:
     9.1. Handle and control the component following the guidelines for operationally certified
     critical components in AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs.
     (T-0).
     9.2. Keep a code component or device under Two-Person Concept control or store it
     according to the methods described in paragraph 12 when an operational code that cannot be
     overwritten passes through it. (T-0). The Two-Person Concept control applies if the code
     component or device has no operational decertification procedure and continues until all
     embedded codes are superseded or IAW controlling authority, per Emergency Action
     Procedures-Strategic (EAP-STRAT), Volume 16.
10. Operational Use of Critical Components. Protect certified critical components in
operational use by keeping them under Two-Person Concept control or in a storage facility as
specified in paragraph 12. (T-0).
11. Shipping Requirements. If using a Two-Person Concept team or NSA-approved TDIs to
protect the certification status, you may use the Department of Defense Courier Service to
transport operationally certified critical components. (T-0).
12. Storage Requirements. These storage requirements apply to certified critical components.
Decertified critical components require storage units to meet security classification requirements,
IAW CG-W-5, Joint DoE/DoD Nuclear Weapons Classification Policy Guide. (T-0).
AFI91-105 2 AUGUST 2013                                                                        5


  12.1. Use one of the following methods to store certified critical components that are not
  under Two-Person Concept control.
     12.1.1. Method 1. Store components in an approved reinforced concrete vault. Use an
     intrusion detection system reporting to a remote, continuously staffed location. (T-0).
     12.1.2. Method 2. Store components in an approved storage container. Use a
     volumetric motion detector and a door detector for the storage area; both detectors must
     report independently to a remote, continuously staffed location. (T-0).
     12.1.3. Method 3. Protect components with TDIs approved IAW AFI 91-104.
  12.2. Apply the following for methods 1 and 2.
     12.2.1. Store the component in a no-lone zone. (T-0).
     12.2.2. Secure every entrance to the no-lone zone with two General Services
     Administration (GSA) medium-security locks ensuring no individual can open both
     locks, or a GSA approved combination lock which requires two separate combinations to
     be dialed out for it to be unlocked ensuring no lone individual can gain access to the no-
     lone zone. (T-0).
     12.2.3. Incorporate a line supervision scheme within the alarm reporting circuits for the
     storage area that detects tampering and reports it to the remote monitoring facility. (T-0).
     12.2.4. Keep at least one person focused on security functions at the alarm monitor
     location (T-0).
  12.3. Unless they are protected by method 3, keep temporarily stored certified critical
  components (e.g. uncoded Minuteman missile guidance sets remaining overnight at missile
  alert facilities) in a no-lone zone (T-0). Protect the components as their classification
  warrants. See EAP-STRAT Volume 16, Chapter 4, paragraph 7 for procedures concerning
  code components.




                                           KURT F. NEUBAUER
                                           Major General, USAF
                                           Chief of Safety
 6                                                            AFI91-105 2 AUGUST 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel Management. 18 February 2011
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 December 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 8 August 2012
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 13 October 2010
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, 17 November 2010
AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs, 10 September 2010
AFI 91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear
Weapon Systems, 11 December 2012
CG-W-5, Joint DoE/DoD Nuclear Weapons Classification Policy Guide, 30 September 1997
EAP – STRAT Volume 16, ICBM Code Component Control Policy and Procedures, 1 March
2012
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (AFRDS),
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSEC/SEW—Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division
AFSEC/SEWN—AFSEC/SEW, Nuclear Weapon Safety Branch
DECERT—Operational Decertification
DoD—Department of Defense
EAP—STRAT--Emergency Action Procedures-Strategic
AFI91-105 2 AUGUST 2013                       7


GSA—- General Services Administration
MAJCOM—Major command
MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification List
NSA—National Security Agency
NCIS—Nuclear Certification Impact Statement
NWRM—Nuclear Weapons Related Material
NWSSG—Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group
OPCERT—Operational Certification
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
TDI—Tamper Detection Indicators
USAF/SE—Air Force Chief of Safety
