BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-1601
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                      22 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                      AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                         Supplement
                                                                        9 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                        Special Management

                                                        AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFI is availiable for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: HQ USAF/A9L                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A9
                                                              (Dr. Jacqueline R. Henningsen)
                                                                                   Pages: 43
Supersedes:   AFI 90-1601, Air Force
              Lessons Learned Program
              dated 26 June 2008.
                                         (AFRC)
OPR: HQ AFRC/A9L                                          Certified by: HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO)
                                                                       (Col Jeffery E. Elliott)
                                                                                     Pages:21
Supersedes:   AFI90-1601_AFRCSUP,
              25 February 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-16, Air Force Studies,
Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned. It provides guidance for the Air Force Lessons
Learned Program (AFL2P) to include developing standards for major activities under the Air
Force Lessons Process (AFLP). It covers all activities associated with lessons learned (L2)
support for operations, exercise and wargame after action reports (AARs) as well as other L2
activities. This instruction guides AF positions to the Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP)
and the joint community on L2 matters. This instruction applies to all Air Force military,
civilian and contractor personnel, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Command. This AFI may be supplemented by Air Force MAJCOMs or other subordinate levels,
but must be coordinated with AF/A9L prior to approval. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of
 2                                                             AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/ afrims/afrims/afrims.

(AFRC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance in Air Force Instruction (AFI)
90-1601, 22 Sep 10. This supplement describes Air Force Reserve procedures to be used in
conjunction with the basic instruction. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) Units and personnel. This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)         Records         Disposition       Schedule         (RDS)       located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

(AFRC) Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision clarifies the roles and responsibilities in the lessons learned process (Chapter 2);
expands description of the lessons learned collection process (Chapter 3); provides a more
detailed lessons learned resolution process (Chapter 6); expands the roles and responsibilities for
the AFL2P Training program (paragraphs 8.2. thru 8.3.); clarifies after action reporting and
information in the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS, Chapter 9);
incorporates procedures for the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group
(Attachment 1); adds an After Action Report (AAR) Template (Attachment 4).

(AFRC) This document has been substantially revised to align with the revised AFI and must be
completely reviewed. Major changes include: Establishes the AFR L2 Oversight Board, (para
2.2.2.20); defined ARPC/CCO duties, (para 2,2.2.21- 2.2.2.21.9); clarifies SME support to
NAF/ARPC-managed L2s, (para 2.2.2.21.3); establishes requirement for NAF/ARPC Key
Performance Indicators/Measures, (para 2.2.2.21.9); requires unit/CCO to establish both NIPR
and SIPR JLLIS accounts, (para 2.2.2.22.2); establishes requirement for wing/group Key
Performance Indicators/Measures, (para 2.2.2.22.9); clarifies After Action Reporting
requirements, (para 3.6.1); clarifies AFRC L2 Validation Process, (para 4.1.1); clarifies AFR
JLLIS Registration, (para 9.2); clarifies JLLIS Daily Digest Feature, (para 9.2.1); details AFRC
L2 Process Flowchart, (Attachment 6); details AFRC Collection Process, (Attachment 7); details
AFRC Validation Process, (Attachment 8); details AFRC Dissemination Process, (Attachment
9); details AFRC Resolution Process, (Attachment 10); and details AFRC/A9L Support to AFRC
Crisis Action Team, (Attachment 11).


       1.      PURPOSE. .............................................................................................................   3
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                                              3


Figure 1.     1 Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP). ....................................................................              4
       2.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                      5
       3.     COLLECTION. .....................................................................................................    12
       4.     VALIDATION. ......................................................................................................   14
       5.     DISSEMINATION. ...............................................................................................       16
       6.     RESOLUTION. .....................................................................................................    17
       7.     JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP). ............................................                                   19
       8.     AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING. ...........                                                      19
       9.     JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS). ..................                                                 20
       10.    FORMS ADOPTED. .............................................................................................         25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     26

Attachment 2—AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING
             GROUP (AF L2 GOSG) CHARTER                                                                                            30

Attachment 3—OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE                                                                                32

Attachment 4—AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE                                                                                          33

Attachment 5—(Added-AFRC) MEMBERSHIP                                                                                               34

Attachment 6—(Added-AFRC) AFRC L2 PROCESS FLOWCHART                                                                                35

Attachment 7—(Added-AFRC) AFRC COLLECTION PROCESS                                                                                  36

Attachment 8—(Added-AFRC) AFRC VALIDATION PROCESS                                                                                  37

Attachment 9—(Added-AFRC) AFRC DISSEMINATION PROCESS                                                                               40

Attachment 10—(Added-AFRC) AFRC RESOLUTION PROCESS                                                                                 41

Attachment 11—(Added-AFRC) AFRC/A9L SUPPORT TO AFRC CRISIS ACTION
             TEAM                                                                                                                  43


1. PURPOSE.
   1.1. Purpose. The AFL2P exists to enhance readiness and improve combat capability by
   capitalizing on the experiences of Airmen. A Lesson Learned (L2) is an Observation that,
   when validated and resolved, results in an improvement in military operations or activities at
   the strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
   individual or an organization. Coupling L2 with past experiences should also assist senior
   leaders in programming, budgeting and allocating resources as well as making changes to
   doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership & education, personnel, facilities and
   policy (DOTMLPF&P). An L2 finding is not a compliance “report card” nor is it
   automatically accepted and implemented without the scrutiny of functional experts. An L2 is
 4                                            AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


     also not “owned” by any one organization. Rather, the mandate for all organizations
     participating in the AFL2P is to coordinate activities and collaboratively exchange
     Observations and Lessons Identified for the benefit of the total Air Force mission.
     1.2. Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP).
        1.2.1. The role of the AFLP is to facilitate the learning of Lessons identified across the
        Air Force. The AFLP has four fundamental components: Collection, Validation,
        Dissemination and Resolution. Figure 1.1 depicts the AFLP.

Figure 1. Air Force Lessons Process




(AFLP).
        1.2.2. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
        Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they
        can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning
        culture, every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
        1.2.3. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational expert to
        confirm an Observation has identifiable lessons to be processed through the AFLP. Once
        validated, an Observation is a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g., capability,
        concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
        Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
        community.
        1.2.4. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for action,
        along with making lessons available for wider use. The aim of dissemination is to get
        lessons to decision makers and Airmen in time for them to make more informed
        decisions.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        5


     1.2.5. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are addressed to ensure they become Lessons
     Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for action
     (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked to
     closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of
     a validated Observation.
     1.2.6. Each L2 office will establish procedures to monitor the status of Lessons
     Identified and actions taken by Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPRs). The
     monitoring office will ensure periodic updates are annotated in JLLIS. Until
     DOTMLPF&P changes from a Lesson Identified are implemented and become a Lesson
     Learned, OPRs and L2 offices should observe corrective actions and be vigilant for
     similar repeat Observations.
     1.2.7. The L2 process is not intended to bypass the chain of command. A structured
     process is in place to review Observations by appropriate JLLIS Tier Managers and
     functional subject matter experts (SMEs).
     1.2.8. Due to their different mission and responsibilities, L2 functions will not be
     combined in the same office with Historians (HO) and/or Inspector General (IG) and/or
     standardization and evaluation (stan/eval) functions. Whereas the IG and stan/eval
     functions are tasked to provide an objective “report card” on organizational compliance,
     L2 functions are collaborative partnerships to capture and share lessons. For similar
     reasons, the L2 program will not be combined with the Safety function at any echelon.
     However, Lessons Identified in both IG and Safety functions should, when possible, be
     sent to the AF L2 Community. In addition, the History function will not be combined
     with the L2 program as historical documentation encompasses operational, maintenance,
     agile combat support and various other command functions. Common source data
     (interviews, AARs, etc.) should be shared between the L2 and HO communities.
     1.2.9. In accordance with CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP),
     JLLIS is the system of record for the Department of Defense and the JLLP. As such,
     Observations and Lessons Identified will ultimately reside in the JLLIS database to the
     maximum extent feasible. To ensure maximum sharing of L2s, JLLIS must be the
     primary vehicle used to implement the AFLP.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
  2.1. HQ USAF/A9.
     2.1.1. The Director of Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9):
        2.1.1.1. Oversees the AFL2P and AF participation in the JLLP.
        2.1.1.2. Serves as the chief L2 advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief
        of Staff of the Air Force.
        2.1.1.3. Ensures the AFL2P meets the goals of USAF leadership and the needs of
        Airmen and commanders at all levels.
        2.1.1.4. Upon CSAF approval, manages annual CSAF vector-aligned Lessons
        Learned Focus Areas for collection.
6                                        AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


       2.1.1.5. Requests each SAF/HAF 2-letter office identify a POC for the AFL2P and
       address their Observations through the AFLP.
    2.1.2. The Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned (AF/A9L):
       2.1.2.1. Provides guidance for the AFLP to include developing standards for major
       activities under the AFL2P.
       2.1.2.2. Serves as the OPR for the AFL2P.
       2.1.2.3. Establishes processes to support guidance contained in this instruction.
       2.1.2.4. Oversees training and development of members of the Air Force lessons
       learned community.
       2.1.2.5. Ensures ready access to these processes and information through JLLIS.
       2.1.2.6. Assists Air Force organizations in performing L2 activities as required.
       2.1.2.7. Manages the Air Force portion of JLLP online database for collecting,
       storing, tracking and displaying L2 information. Works to maximize joint and multi-
       service sharing of L2 information.
       2.1.2.8. Oversees the AFL2P and JLLIS training program.
       2.1.2.9. Addresses Lessons Identified forwarded by subordinate L2 organizations or
       Observations submitted by the Headquarters Air Force staff.
       2.1.2.10. Tracks AF-level Lessons Identified through       resolution and assists
       information crossflow between OPRs and offices of collateral responsibility (OCRs)
       working their implementation.
       2.1.2.11. Provides AFL2P inputs to HQ USAF corporate processes. Provides the AF
       position to the JLLP and advises the joint community on lessons learned matters.
       2.1.2.12. Collects USAF headquarters-level Lessons Identified from exercises, and
       contingency operations in which the AF Crisis Action Team (AFCAT) participates.
       2.1.2.13. Maintains trained and ready personnel for the AFCAT L2 position.
       2.1.2.14. Accomplishes L2 studies and collection activities, in cooperation with the
       AF History Program research and collection efforts, on specific topics/events as
       directed by senior USAF leadership. Annually implements the CSAF Focus Area
       lesson learned collection plan.
       2.1.2.15. Integrates L2 with the Joint Staff, other service and non-DoD government
       agencies. Integrates L2 activities and processes across the total force to synchronize
       collections and disseminate information quickly.
       2.1.2.16. Analyzes L2 content produced by other members of the L2 community,
       other government organizations and research agencies to extract lessons applicable to
       AF operations not previously reported and/or acted upon.
       2.1.2.17. Reviews AARs and any collection reports to extract and act upon any
       Lessons Identified not previously reported and or acted upon.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                         7


        2.1.2.18. Coordinates L2 studies that have operational and basic doctrine
        implications with the LeMay Center.
  2.2. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs.
     2.2.1. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs will designate an organization as lead for L2
     activities, normally designated as A9L. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may designate that
     a subordinate NAF or Center perform all or part of MAJCOM, FOA or DRU-level L2
     functions in accordance with their respective supplement to this AFI.
     2.2.1. (AFRC) MAJCOMS, FOAs, and DRUs will designate an organization as lead
     for L2 activities, normally designated as A9L. HQ AFRC/A9L is the Office of
     Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the Air Force Reserve Lessons Learned Program
     (AFRL2P).
     2.2.2. The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 organization will:
        2.2.2.1. Serve as OPR for the L2 program.
        2.2.2.2. Ensure L2 collection processes are established implemented. Ensure AARs
        are submitted and Lessons Identified are addressed for major operations,
        contingencies, key exercises, experiments and other significant events and topics
        identified by leadership.
        2.2.2.3. Enter Observations and AARs into JLLIS NLT 30 days after the event.
        2.2.2.4. Establish a process to validate Observations and share Lessons Identified.
        2.2.2.4. (AFRC) Establish a process to Validate Observations and share Lessons
        Identified. AFRC/A9L chairs the HQ AFRC Lessons Learned Working Group
        (L2WG). The L2WG normally meets monthly to review and recommend suggested
        Directorate SMEs for each new HQ AFRC managed Observation, tracks open
        Lessons Identified (LI), as well as to review recommended LI resolution actions. See
        Attachment 5 for L2WG membership.            Note: Observations submitted into Joint
        Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS) are not activated until validation
        process occurs. Observations submitted directly from lower tier organizations to the
        AFRC JLLIS Tier will be automatically transferred to the appropriate JLLIS Tier for
        review and validation.
        2.2.2.5. Share L2 products Lessons Identified with other MAJCOMs, NAFs and
        lower echelons through the AFL2P .
        2.2.2.5. (AFRC) Share L2 products Lessons Identified with other MAJCOMs,
        NAFs and lower echelons through the AFL2P. Analyzes L2 content produced by
        other members of the L2 community, other government organizations, and research
        agencies, to extract potential Lessons applicable to Air Force Reserve Command
        (AFRC) operations. LIs will be forwarded to appropriate functional Subject Matter
        Expert (SME) for analysis and validation.
        2.2.2.6. Elevate to AF/A9L any Lessons Identified with cross-AF implications or that
        are beyond the scope of the organization‟s authority to address.
        2.2.2.7. When designated as the Air Force Component to a Unified Combatant
        Command (UCC), participate in both the AFL2P and in the UCC‟s L2 process (as the
8                                     AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


    air component). These roles overlap as AF organizations may have an interest in
    operational lessons originating in other AORs and the UCC may have an interest in
    AF initiatives that can improve operations in that theater.
    2.2.2.8. Facilitate the expedient up-channeling of AARs and Lessons Identified
    through the AFL2P and the UCC L2 process as appropriate.
    2.2.2.9. Represent their organization‟s participation in or provide input to AF/A9L
    for L2 activities.
    2.2.2.10. Participate with HAF, MAJCOM, Joint and Interagency L2 activities.
    2.2.2.11. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A-Staff and special staff planning teams
    to incorporate applicable lessons to support the full spectrum of military operations.
    2.2.2.12. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU teams across all functional areas to
    coordinate policy, tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP) and operational strategy,
    and with the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education to coordinate
    doctrine development.
    2.2.2.13. Provide Fiscal Year plans and schedules to AF/A9L for publication by
    1 Sep each year, and provide updates as they are available.
    2.2.2.14. (Added-AFRC) Educates AFRC L2 personnel and L2 Directorate
    Functional Area Representatives (FAR) on the AFRL2P, data collection
    methodologies, and use of L2 systems, tools and resources .
    2.2.2.15. (Added-AFRC) Publishes a periodic L2 Review which reflects and
    updates the command‟s status of HQ AFRC L2 activity.
    2.2.2.16. (Added-AFRC) Publish, review and disseminate Bulletins, Crosstells, and
    Newsletters to Command senior leaders, key personnel and MAJCOM Functional
    Managers.
       2.2.2.16.1. (Added-AFRC) AFRC/A9L will publish bi-monthly Crosstells at a
       minimum.
       2.2.2.16.2. (Added-AFRC) AFRC/A9L will publish Special Bulletins in
       advance of regularly planned events, exercises or activities. Examples: Winter
       Wingman, Patriot Exercises or Hurricane season. Exact number and frequency of
       bulletins is relative to the number of planned events as determined by HQ AFRC
       OPRs. A9L will normally publish at least 3 bulletins each year to precede
       seasonal events such as: Hurricane, National Level Exercises, AFRC Exercise
       Control Group (ECG) exercises, Seasonal Flu/Pandemic, etc.
       2.2.2.16.3. (Added-AFRC) Special Bulletins, also, may be driven by unplanned
       events or activities. Examples; Operation TOMODACHI, UNIFIED RESPONSE
       or natural disasters that occur on US territorial properties. Special Bulletins
       contain Lessons Learned, Observations and After Action Reports from similar
       events that could be used by operational planners in determining response courses
       of action.
       2.2.2.16.4. (Added-AFRC) AFRC/A9L will establish criteria to identify and
       communicate key performance indicators/measurements associated with Lessons
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                      9


           Learned program management.          These KPI/M templates and monthly
           measurements will be uploaded into the AFRC “Performance Measures” binder
           located at AFRC Tier 1 in JLLIS. Metrics will be updated using standard
           templates available in the “L2 Program Template Binder” in AFRC Tier 1 of
           JLLIS.
        2.2.2.17. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFRC Directorates and Special Staffs:
           2.2.2.17.1. (Added-AFRC) Appoint a Primary and Alternate FAR to the HQ
           AFRC L2WG and notifies AFRC/A9L organization box (see Attachment 5 for
           L2WG membership list).
           2.2.2.17.2. (Added-AFRC) For LIs assigned to their directorate, oversees the
           implementation of the AFRC L2 Resolution Process as outlined in paragraph
           2.2.2.19 and Attachment 10.
        2.2.2.18. (Added-AFRC) AFRC L2 Directorate FAR responsibilities:
           2.2.2.18.1. (Added-AFRC) Serves as lead POC for L2 activities within their
           respective organization.
           2.2.2.18.2. (Added-AFRC) Establishes an account in both NIPR and SIPR
           JLLIS.
           2.2.2.18.3. (Added-AFRC) Provides oversight of process improvement
           opportunities as well as addresses AFRC-level LIs forwarded from the AFR
           Lessons Learned Oversight Board (AFRL2OB) or via JLLIS Daily Digest.
           2.2.2.18.4. (Added-AFRC) Participates in L2 collection activities on specific
           topics/events as directed by senior AFRC leadership. Coordinates SME
           identification for HAF and/or MAJCOM L2 collections.
           2.2.2.18.5. (Added-AFRC) Tracks LIs within their Directorate until the OPR
           has determined the LI resolution action has been implemented and ready for
           closure. Updates the L2WG on all open LIs as well as LIs being recommended
           for closure using templates from the “L2 Program Template Binder” located in
           AFRC Tier 1 of JLLIS.
           2.2.2.18.6. (Added-AFRC) Serves as the directorate POC for the AFRL2P and
           educates Directorate personnel on the AFRL2P.
           2.2.2.18.7. (Added-AFRC) Educates/assists        directorate  personnel     with
           registration and utilization of the JLLIS NIPR and SIPR sites, to include use of
           the L2 search and Daily Digest features of JLLIS.
           2.2.2.18.8. (Added-AFRC) Advises and educates Directorate personnel on how
           to submit Observations and/or AARs into JLLIS. Ensures AARs from major
           operations, contingencies, key exercises, experiments and other significant events
           and topics identified by leadership are posted in JLLIS.
        2.2.2.19. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFRC L2 Resolution Process. LIs will be submitted
        via JLLIS before entering into the HQ AFRC L2 Resolution Process as outlined in
        Attachment 10.
10                                    AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


     2.2.2.20. (Added-AFRC) AFR L2 Oversight Board (AFRL2OB): Chaired by the
     AFRC/CV, the primary purpose of the AFRL2OB is to serve as the LI closure
     authority, address LIs that are exceeding their identified ECD and review
     Observations or LIs resulting from Joint, HAF, or other MAJCOM level reports that
     could impact AFR priorities. The AFRL2OB will also review L2 performance
     measures as well as status of HAF and AFRC L2 Collection Plans. The L2OB will
     normally meet quarterly and include HQ AFRC 2-Letter Directors as primary
     members. Directors are responsible for briefing the status of their open LIs.
     AFRC/A9L facilitates this meeting. Out-of-cycle LI Closure requests will be
     accomplished using AFRC Task Management Tool (TMT). See Attachment 5 for
     L2OB membership.
     2.2.2.21. (Added-AFRC) NAF/ARPC/CCO L2 Responsibilities:
        2.2.2.21.1. (Added-AFRC) Serve as the OPR for all L2 activities and L2
        submissions originating at the NAF/ARPC level.
        2.2.2.21.2. (Added-AFRC) Establishes an account in both NIPR and SIPR
        JLLIS and serves as the Command Lessons Manager (CLM) for their specific tier
        JLLIS account.
        2.2.2.21.3. (Added-AFRC) Develops a NAF/ARPC-specific L2 Review,
        Validation (see para 4.2.1), and Tracking Process to review Observations and
        AARs submitted by NAF/ARPC personnel. Assigns Observation to a review
        authority (normally a subject matter expert) within 30 days of the Observations
        initial entry into JLLIS. Incorporate Lessons Learned program procedures into a
        local OI to codify NAF/ARPC leadership operating procedures. AFRC staff
        support may be required for SME analysis and validation under the skip-echelon
        concept for specific areas without NAF functional representation.
        2.2.2.21.4. (Added-AFRC) Publishes a periodic L2 Review that communicates
        status of organizational L2 activity for that period. Provide AFRC/A9L a copy of
        this L2 Review.
        2.2.2.21.5. (Added-AFRC) Performs L2 activities for specific events, including
        accomplishing L2 collection activities as directed by organizational leadership.
        2.2.2.21.6. (Added-AFRC) Educates NAF/ARPC personnel on the AFRL2P.
        2.2.2.21.7. (Added-AFRC) Educates/assists NAF/ARPC personnel with
        registration and utilization of JLLIS NIPR and SIPR sites, to include use of the L2
        search and Daily Digest features of JLLIS.
        2.2.2.21.8. (Added-AFRC) Advises and educates unit personnel on how to
        submit Observations or AARs into JLLIS. Ensures AARs from every major
        exercise or event are accomplished and posted in JLLIS IAW AFI 90-1601.
        2.2.2.21.9. (Added-AFRC) NAF/ARPC CCOs will establish criteria to identify
        and communicate key performance indicators/measurements (KPI/M) associated
        to their Lessons Learned program management.          Local KPI/M will be
        documented in the unit operating instruction. NAF/ARPC CCOs will provide
        monthly status for command identified measures by uploading their information
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                      11


            in the designated JLLIS AFRC “Performance Measures” binder located at AFRC
            Tier 1 in JLLIS. Format for measures are loaded in the “L2 Program Template
            Binder” located in AFRC Tier 1 of JLLIS.
        2.2.2.22. (Added-AFRC) Wing/Group/CCO L2 Responsibilities:
            2.2.2.22.1. (Added-AFRC) Serves as the L2 advisor to the Wing/Group
            Commander.
            2.2.2.22.2. (Added-AFRC) Serves as the unit OPR for all L2 activities and L2
            submissions. Establishes an account in both NIPR and SIPR JLLIS and serves as
            the Command Lessons Manager (CLM) for the unit‟s JLLIS accounts.
            2.2.2.22.3. (Added-AFRC) Develops a unit-specific L2 Review, Validation (see
            para 4.2.1), and Tracking Process to review Observations and AARs submitted
            by unit personnel to the wing‟s respective JLLIS Tier-2 account. Assign
            Observation to a review authority (normally a subject matter expert) within 30
            days of the Observation‟s initial entry into JLLIS. Incorporate Lessons Learned
            program procedures into a local OI to codify unit leadership operating procedures.
            2.2.2.22.4. (Added-AFRC) Assists performing L2 activities for specific events,
            including accomplishing L2 collection activities as directed by wing leadership.
            2.2.2.22.5. (Added-AFRC) Educates unit personnel on the AFRL2P.
            2.2.2.22.6. (Added-AFRC) Educates/assists unit personnel with registration and
            utilization of the JLLIS NIPR and SIPR sites, to include use of the L2 search and
            Daily Digest features of JLLIS.
            2.2.2.22.7. (Added-AFRC) Advises and educates unit personnel on how to
            submit Observations or AARs into JLLIS. Ensures AARs from every major
            exercise or event are posted in JLLIS IAW AFI 90-1601.
            2.2.2.22.8. (Added-AFRC) Accomplishes Request For Information (RFI) data
            pulls and assists units preparing for deployment by educating wing personnel to
            conduct L2 searches in JLLIS for applicable L2s and AARs for the area of
            deployment.
            2.2.2.22.9. (Added-AFRC) Wing/Group CCOs will establish criteria to identify
            and communicate key performance indicators/measurements associated to their
            Lessons Learned program management. Local KPI/M will be documented in the
            unit operating instruction. Wing/Group CCOs will provide monthly status for
            command identified measures by uploading their information in the designated
            JLLIS AFRC “Performance Measures” binder located at AFRC Tier 1 in JLLIS.
            Format for measures are loaded in the “L2 Program Template Binder” located in
            AFRC Tier 1 of JLLIS.
  2.3. All Airmen.
     2.3.1. All Airmen are encouraged to enter Observations that contain potential lessons
     into JLLIS for coordination through the AFLP and/or inform the local chain of command
     as appropriate.
12                                          AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


     2.3.2. Individuals or organizations lacking access to the JLLIS website may use AF IMT
     Forms 4329 and 4330 (Attachments 3 and 4) to record their Observations and e-mail
     them directly to the appropriate NAF, MAJCOM, or HQ USAF-level L2 office. Both
     forms are avaliable online at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
3. COLLECTION.
  3.1. Purpose. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
  Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they can be
  “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning culture,
  every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
  3.2. Types of Collections.
     3.2.1. After action collection to capture important events. Reconstructs specific events or
     combat operations after the fact to gain a better understanding of the event‟s successes
     and challenges. AFLP allows an organization to capture historical events and share
     lessons gained from participants‟ knowledge and experience, even though the Lessons
     Identified may already be resolved and no further actions are required. This can be done
     in partnership with historians but is not intended to duplicate their work.
     3.2.2. Event collection. Captures the facts and participant Observations regarding a
     combat or non-combat event as it occurs. The collection can occur at the strategic,
     operational, and/or tactical level. Examples include exercises, such as RED FLAG, or
     contingencies, such as Hurricane Katrina or Operation UNIFIED ASSISTANCE. Event
     collections may be accomplished two ways:
         3.2.2.1. Participative collection. The L2 staff performs two roles during the event.
         First, they participate in the unit‟s operational battle rhythm, attend staff meetings,
         man the Crisis Action Team and/or provide real-time inputs to the commander‟s
         planning and decision process. Second, the staff forms teams to collect data at the
         tactical, operational and/or strategic levels. Large-scale operations, such as disaster
         relief operations, might involve teams from HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, NAFs, other
         Services and UCCs collecting data either independently or in concert based on goals.
         3.2.2.2. Observational collection. An L2 team records the organizational structures,
         processes and resources used to accomplish an infrequent, noncombat event so that
         tacit knowledge gained during the event can be explicitly documented, stored and
         retrieved for later use during similar events (e.g., Quadrennial Defense Review
         [QDR] Process).
     3.2.3. Topical collection. This collection focuses on a specific subject or cyclic process
     (e.g., surveys, Focus Areas, etal) based on an L2 organization‟s desire to further examine
     or collect information about a certain topic.
     3.2.4. Observations and Lessons Identified through event collections and topical
     collections will be entered into JLLIS for validation, dissemination and resolution. JLLIS
     is the system of record for the AF L2 process and may be used by any Airman. JLLIS is
     the central repository for Observations, Lessons Identified, AARs and other L2 reports.
  3.3. Techniques and Tools. L2 collections can employ the full range of techniques and
  tools, tailoring them to the specific situation. Techniques and tools include direct
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                         13


  observation, in-person interviews, commanders‟ exit interviews, surveys, database
  submissions by participants, AARs, data and database mining and document capturing.
  Sharing of data between L2 professionals, historians and other learning organizations is
  highly encouraged to coordinate on collection dissemination, especially via the JLLIS online
  database.
  3.4. General L2 Collection Approach.
     3.4.1. When possible, collections should be coordinated in advance with involvement of
     trained L2 staff. Collections on many important events (warfare, contingencies, etc.) are
     often conducted with little or no notice. Individuals must be trained on collection
     techniques and prepared to apply them at any time.
     3.4.2. Where possible, an L2 collection within an organization‟s Area of Responsibility
     (AOR) should be augmented as required by other L2 offices and SMEs. For most
     collections, SMEs and functional area experts are better suited to observe and document
     employment of their respective processes.
     3.4.3. The L2 office (at any level) will normally lead collection efforts. AF/A9L
     participation with other L2 organizations in CSAF-directed/multi-service/joint collections
     permits better access senior leadership and documents broader perspectives.
  3.5. Observation Submission Procedures.
     3.5.1. AFLP procedures standardize Observation submission and management at all AF
     echelons. Observation submission procedures consist of collecting Observations of
     events and operations, reviewing and entering them in JLLIS. Lower echelons will
     address Observations at their level and forward those beyond their scope to the
     appropriate level.
     3.5.2. Observation submission procedures apply to all units either conducting their day-
     to-day mission or participating in real world operations and/or exercises (e.g., combat
     operations, humanitarian operations, base closures, peacekeeping operations,
     noncombatant evacuations, exercises, etc.).
     3.5.3. Observations should flow from the reporting individual and agency to the
     reviewing office or functional expert and, if required, to the next-level L2 office.
  3.6. After Action Report (AAR) Reporting.
     3.6.1. After Action reports (AARs) are intended to help Airmen fight a smarter, more
     capable fight. The next Airmen to deploy, to participate in that exercise, to train for that
     type contingency, etc., should benefit from reports submitted by those who have gone
     before. Timely submission of AARs (and the individual Observations which comprise
     them) are a command responsibility. Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF)
     commanders, commanders of subordinate AETF units, exercise/experiment directors, and
     other like commanders/directors are expected to submit a unit-level AAR for the event
     (deployment, contingency, exercise, etc.) for which they are responsible. AARs are
     posted in JLLIS and accessable to all registered users.
     3.6.1. (AFRC) AARs are not restricted to readiness or operational activities; they
     should include events that are performed on a regular/routine basis and incorporate
     advanced planning actions. (Ex. Airshows, yellow ribbon, reception of forces, etc).
14                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


     Accomplishing an AAR helps planners and Airmen at all levels operationalize Lessons
     real time and improves tactics, techniques and procedures.
     3.6.2. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in military
     operations at the strategic, operational, or tactical level. AAR Observations should
     describe how the mission could be/was improved, potential risks to mission degradation
     and how to mitigate those risks. AARs are intended to be more than a summary or rollup
     of unit/tactical actions. Commanders/directors are not required to hold Observations until
     the end of an operation, exercise or AEF cycle to be included in an AAR. Whenever
     possible, AARs should be submitted as soon as practical to permit timely action.
     3.6.3. Units participating in operations as part of a continuous AEF cycle will submit
     AARs to their respective HHQ NLT than 45 days following the end of their deployment.
     AFFOR staff and AOC staff will also submit periodic AARs for continuous AEF
     operations (e.g., OEF). Individual Observations deserving urgent attention should not be
     delayed for inclusion in the next AAR but should be forwarded up the chain of command
     as soon as sufficient information is gathered. The goal is to get the information to the
     next set of deployers and/or HHQ staff decision makers quickly for action/resolution.
     3.6.4. AARs for operations not supported by a continuing AEF cycle, contingencies and
     exercises will be submitted to HHQ NLT 30 days after the end of the event unless
     otherwise directed.
     3.6.4. (AFRC) Unless another After Action Report format is specified, AFRC units
     should use the AFRC AAR Template located on the AFRC “L2 Program Template
     Binder” in JLLIS.
     3.6.5. Owning organizations will review AARs to pull Observations for processing
     through the AFLP and post AARs to JLLIS. Lessons Identified during the review will be
     entered in JLLIS and disseminated to the appropriate OPR for information and resolution.
4. VALIDATION.
  4.1. Purpose. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational experts
  to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed through the AFLP.
  Once validated, an Observation becomes a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g.,
  capability, concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
  Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
  community. Validation ensures accuracy, applicability, and completeness, and activates the
  Observation in JLLIS. The goal of the validation process is to get to root causes.
  4.1. (AFRC) The goal of the validation process is to get to the root cause. Root cause
  determination will be accomplished using the 8-Step Problem Solving Model as outlined in
  paragraph 6.1.1.4
     4.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Validation Objective: Observations should be reviewed on the
     basis of suitability for inclusion in the L2 process as soon as possible after capture. The
     initial review process can be carried out by a member of the submitter‟s chain of
     command or organizational element or by a dedicated L2 manager (such as the CCO).
     This initial review process acts as a filter to remove unsuitable or incomplete
     Observations. When carried out immediately after the Observation has been captured, the
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                           15


     reviewing authority will be able to get back to the submitter and clarify any points or
     issues while they are still fresh in the submitter‟s mind.
     4.1.2. (Added-AFRC) AFRC Validation Process is designed to promote lowest level
     resolution and action as measured against a DOTMLPF&P change. Subject Matter
     Experts function as the Validation Authority (VA). NAF, ARPC and Wing/Group/CCs
     function as a gatekeeper in facilitating vetting/validation of Observations entered into
     JLLIS by unit members. AFRC/A9L functions as the Action Officer (AO)/Gatekeeper
     for all Observations originating outside command channels to be worked by command
     staff functionals. Gatekeepers facilitate maximum collaboration between the submitter
     and the resolving function. Validation should occur within 30 days of any new
     Observation being assigned to a JLLIS Tier site.
  4.2. Validation Authority.
     4.2.1. The validation authority has a key role in the AFLP. Validation authorities will:
        4.2.1.1. Review Observations for accuracy, applicability and completeness. If
        Observations do not meet these criteria, validation authorities will contact the
        originator for futher clarification.
        4.2.1.1. (AFRC) To be valid, AFRC Observations must: (1) Complete Steps 1-3 of
        the 8-Step Problem Solving Model, will identify at least one DOTMLPF&P
        correlation, and include references, when applicable. In addition, when validating an
        Observation, VAs will use the validation checklist located in the Template Binder at
        AFRC Tier 1 JLLIS Site.
        4.2.1.2. Determine if an Observation had previously been addressed. If the
        Observation duplicates previous Observations, it will be manually linked in JLLIS
        with the previous Observations.
        4.2.1.3. Determine the applicable guiding documents (e.g., statute, DoD or AF
        instruction).
        4.2.1.4. Parse Observations to determine DOTMLPF&P actionable areas.
        4.2.1.4. (AFRC) NAF/ARPC/Wing/Group/CCOs working with submitters will
        assign metadata tag(s) to Observations entered into JLLIS, identifying potential
        DOTMLPF&P change area(s).
        4.2.1.5. Submit to the appropriate SME for evaluation. Once the SME confirms the
        Observation‟s validity, it is processed as a Lesson Identified. IG, stan/eval or QA
        offices will not be appointed as the evaluation agency.
        4.2.1.6. Ensure Lessons Identified are returned to the originating JLLIS Tier-1
        Administrator and/or Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) for dissemination to
        issue resolution OPRs.
        4.2.1.6. (AFRC) NAF/ARPC/Wing/Group/CCOs will ensure Observations originate
        within the proper tier to ensure continuity of process operations.
        4.2.1.7. Forward Lessons Identified intended for the HQ USAF staff through JLLIS
        to AF/A9L.
16                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


         4.2.1.8. Inform the chain of command as to status of Observations submitted to
         higher level L2 offices.
     4.2.2. Validation SMEs may be instructors, staff functionals, career field functional
     managers, commanders, senior AF leaders or L2 offices.
     4.2.3. Lessons Identified deemed as time-critical and/or mission-critical will be
     concurrently disseminated to other potentially interested organizations and individuals
     where mission impact may occur.
5. DISSEMINATION.
  5.1. Purpose. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
  action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to
  get lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
     5.1.1. Lessons may be disseminated through tasks, briefings, bulletins, reports or
     database entries.
     5.1.2. An OPR will be tasked to either resolve to closure Lessons Identified requiring
     DOTMLPF&P action/changes or ensure Lessons Identified requiring wider dissemination
     to a wider audience are appropriately promulgated.
     5.1.3. An OCR will be assigned as required by the originator of the lesson idenitifed or
     as required by the OPR.
     5.1.3. (AFRC) AFRC/A9L will disseminate all Observations originating from other
     commands and HAF level collection reports to respective subject matter experts for
     analysis regardless of OPR or OCR assignment by the report authority. SME reviews
     Observation to determine applicability and if valid, identifies potential DOTMLPF&P
     changes the command should take action to resolve and reduce risk. Observations
     deemed as requiring no DOTMLPF&P change will be fully documented in JLLIS by the
     SME and returned to A9L with no further action required. Documentation must clearly
     identify why AFR equities are not at risk or why risk level is acceptable.
  5.2. Dissemination Techniques.
     5.2.1. The guiding principle in executing a dissemination strategy is to get the right
     information to the right person at the right time. Dissemination of Lessons Identified to
     individuals or organizations may be solicited or unsolicited. Techniques for either type
     of dissemination encompass both „push‟ and „pull‟ methodologies.
         5.2.2.1. “Push” methodologies transmit lessons proactively to identified recipients.
         In this case, L2 specialists identify target audiences for dissemination. Examples of
         when to “push” Lessons Identified are when assisting planning staffs during emerging
         situations (contingencies, relief operations, etc.), assisting headquarters staffs with
         Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) decisions, and when
         sending completed L2 documents such as AARs to identified audiences via a
         subscription service. Push solicited information when responding to a Request for
         Information (RFI). In this case, L2 specialists may push relevant lessons on the
         particular event or topic to the requesting party.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                         17


         5.2.2.2. “Pull” methodologies allow individuals to retrieve lessons by conducting
         JLLIS queries or by researching and retrieving published L2 reports and bulletins.
         (The “Daily Digest” feature in JLLIS is a “pull” resource.)
     5.2.3. Other dissemination processes may already exist within lower echelons or
     functional communities. Examples include the Tactics Review Board process and the
     Maintenance Quality Assurance flash process. Integration of Lessons Identified provides
     a mechanism to integrate the AFLP with lower echelon processes.
     5.2.4. Although dissemination activities may be conducted using different approaches,
     the basic process step of identifying action items must take place for each Lesson
     Identified before submittal to the resolution processes or inclusion in publications,
     reports, summaries, briefings and analyses.
6. RESOLUTION.
  6.1. Purpose. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are tracked to ensure they become a
  Lessons Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for
  action (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked
  to closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of a
  validated Observation.
     6.1.1. Resolution has three main objectives:
     6.1.1. (AFRC) For AFRC; Resolution has one additional objective.
         6.1.1.1. Enhance the Air Force‟s and the joint community‟s ability to learn from the
         conduct of operations across the levels of warfare, training activities, exercise events
         and other activities.
         6.1.1.2. Enhance warfighting capabilities by documenting potential solutions across
         DOTMLPF&P approaches and implementation decisions.
         6.1.1.3. Support Air Force senior leaders as well as a broad range of subject specific
         stakeholders.
         6.1.1.4. (Added-AFRC) Incorporate 8-Step Problem Solving Model to Resolving
         AFR LIs: The AFRL2P will leverage the AF 8-Step Problem Solving Model (8-
         SPSM) to enhance the submission and resolution of Observations. Once Observations
         are validated and an OPR assigned, the resolution phase will begin. Step One is used
         to clarify the problem as identified in the Observation, to include (if needed)
         contacting the submitter for issue clarification. Step Two breaks down the problem
         and identifies performance gaps with specific examples. Step Three will establish/set
         improvement targets. Steps Four and Five are used to determine the root cause and
         establish countermeasures to mitigate risk and solve the LI. Steps Six through Eight
         ensure that the countermeasures that have been put in place achieve the desired end
         state and ensures the LI has been standardized across the enterprise. Completion of
         all 8 steps is required before an LI can be recommended for closure and becomes a
         Lesson Learned. Note: Fillable 8-SPSM form located in AFRC JLLIS L2 Program
         template binder.
18                                        AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


         6.1.1.5. (Added-AFRC) Resolution of LIs is vital to the overall effectiveness of the
         L2 Program and assists the warfighter. OPRs will work aggressively to validate,
         analyze and reach resolution as quickly as possible.
  6.2. Tracking Issue Resolution (TIR). TIR ensures Lessons Identified are worked to
  closure. TIR documentation establishes accountability for resolution, monitors resolution
  actions to closure, and provides a means of disseminating Lessons Identified.
     6.2.1. AF/A9L will:
         6.2.1.1. Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified between the HAF, Services, Joint
         Staff, UCCs and other government organizations.
         6.2.1.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of AF
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
         6.2.1.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for all HAF
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS MAJCOM Tier-1 Sites.
     6.2.2. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.2.1.   Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified among lower echelons and HQ
     USAF.
         6.2.2.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
         6.2.2.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS NAF/Wing/Center/FOA/DRU Tier-2 CLMs.
     6.2.3. NAF/Center L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.3. (AFRC) NAF/ ARPC/Wing/Group L2 CCOs will:
     6.2.3.1. Maintain a cross-flow of Lessons Identified within their command/ functional
     community.
         6.2.3.2. In conjunction with SMEs, track the status of NAF/Center Lessons
         Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons with
         programmatic implications.
         6.2.3.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS Tier-2 CLMs.
     6.2.4. (Added-AFRC) The purpose of the AFRC/A9L Resolution Process is to work
     with the AFRC staff to find solutions to valid issues. The Resolution Process is detailed
     in Attachment 10.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        19


  6.3. Closure of Lesson Actions. Lessons Identified that are entered into an organization‟s
  resolution process should be resolved at the lowest level. Actions for Lessons Identified may
  be closed when a solution has been implemented or a decision made to accept the risk of not
  implementing a solution. Closed Lessons Identified will be archived in JLLIS for future
  reference and their final action/determination will be disseminated and periodically reviewed.
7. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP).
  7.1. Purpose. The JLLP is governed by CJCSI 3150.25, Joint Lessons Learned Program.
  In support of the JLLP, the Air Force Lessons Learned Program will:
     7.1.1. Provide and maintain JLLP support for Air Force-specific, tactical, operational
     and strategic level lessons.
     7.1.2. Interact with other stakeholders within the JLLP community on L2 matters.
     7.1.3. Submit Lessons Identified that affect the joint community or requiring joint
     resolution to the Joint Staff.
  7.2. Concept. AF/A9L will:
     7.2.1. Represent the Air Force to the Joint Staff and the JLLP community on JLLP
     matters except when the JLLP matter only applies to a specific UCC. Air Force matters
     only applying to a specific UCC will be represented by the AF component to that UCC.
     7.2.2. Provide personnel and technical expertise to document Lessons Identified, analyze
     causation and impact, train collection team SMEs and coordinate Air Force SME
     participation in JLLP activities.
     7.2.3. Track and coordinate joint Lessons Identified within the AFL2P.
  7.3. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) Integration. L2
  involvement and participation in the JLLP will include:
     7.3.1. Monitoring joint L2 products to include the JCIDS and Joint Staff Action
     Processing systems.
     7.3.2. Assisting HQ USAF MAJCOM offices with Joint L2 submissions and
     DOTMLPF&P Change Request (DCR) development, as required.
8. AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING.
  8.1. Purpose. The purpose of the AFL2P training is to ensure individuals assigned to L2
  offices or as collection team augmentees/SMEs receive appropriate L2 training to understand
  their role in the AFLP.
  8.2. AF Lessons Learned Program Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the
  AFL2P training program. Each L2 office will ensure its training program is up to date with
  material found on the AF Lessons Learned Program website: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf or
  http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf. AF/A9L will provide train-the-trainer services for all aspects
  of the AFL2P. Each L2 office will establish guidelines to maintain curreny for members
  supporting their L2 program.
  8.2. (AFRC) AFRC/A9L will ensure ready access to processes and information through the
  HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO) Portal web page as well as the HQ AFRC Tier-1 JLLIS sites.
20                                          AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


  AFRC/A9L will provide AFL2P training to newly assigned HQ AFRC L2WG members and
  JLLIS CLMs.
  8.3. L2 Collection Team Training. L2 offices will provide collection team members
  training prior to L2 collection efforts. Training will include collection plan development,
  conduct of interviews, collection management tools (JLLIS, interview management tools,
  etc.), data gathering techniques, product development, and dissemination. L2 collection team
  members and SMEs provide expertise required for a focused collection. The L2 collection
  team lead is responsible for coordinating training with the JLLIS Tier-1 Administrator or
  Tier-2 CLM.
  8.4. JLLIS Training. L2 offices will provide JLLIS training to their orgainzations and
  lower echlons. Local training will emphasize use of JLLIS for capturing and managing
  Observations and Lessons Identified.
9. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS).
  9.1. DoD system of record for JLLP. JLLIS is a web-based system that implements the
  requirements for the JLLP. JLLP provides transfer of knowledge within the DoD through the
  rapid distribution of Observations and recommendations, AARs, TTPs, topic papers,
  briefings and interviews.
  9.2. JLLIS. JLLIS allows Air Force personnel to search, submit and manage all Air Force
  Observations, lessons, AARs, L2 and other information up to SECRET. JLLIS is used to
  track and disseminate Lessons Identified throughout the Air Force and DoD. JLLIS provides
  L2 office management, data collection, data management and L2 information distribution.
  9.2. (AFRC) AFR JLLIS Registration: The primary vehicle to disseminate L2s, AARs,
  TTPs, topic papers, briefings and interviews is via JLLIS. Air Force Reserve personnel are
  highly encouraged to register in both NIPR and SIPR JLLIS and to maintain their profile
  information to reflect the most current status of their organizational assignment. CLM
  functionals should establish Daily Digest topics as outlined in paragraph 9.2.1. JLLIS only
  requires users to register once and there is no “lock out” for account inactivity, however units
  must coordinate with HQ AFRC JLLIS Administrators to periodically verify membership
  and remove members no longer assigned to their organizations.
     9.2.1. (Added-AFRC) Use of the JLLIS Daily Digest Feature: The Interagency
     Lessons Learned Search feature powered by JLLIS allows registered users to subscribe to
     topics of their choosing and receive e-mail RSS notifications when information is
     updated or entered into the JLLIS database. This feature will automatically “pull” the
     user-chosen topics from across all domains specified by the user.
  9.3. System Administration.
     9.3.1. AF/A9L is responsible for system administration of the AF JLLIS master site
     through coordination with Joint Staff/J7 and JLLIS programmers.
     9.3.2. The AF/A9 JLLIS Program Manager will update the JLLIS User Guide and
     checklists, maintain a standard training package on the JLLIS home page and update this
     instruction annually or when changes to the system and/or process occur.
  9.4. JLLIS Business Rules.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                      21


     9.4.1. The JLLIS community will abide by the CJCSI 3150.25, JLLIS Business Rules
     and the following guidelines in managing their JLLIS operations:
        9.4.1.1. A Tier-1 is at the HAF and MAJCOM level. All other organizations will be
        assigned as a Tier-2. A Lesson Manager is the manager of Observations and Lessons
        Identified at the Tier-1 and Tier-2 level. A SME is a person within a Directorate or
        Command possessing expertise on an Observation, finding, issue, or Lesson
        Identified.
        9.4.1.2. Validation Process. Tier-1 and Tier-2 Lesson Managers and SMEs will
        review all “Pending” lessons within their Tier. Once an Observation is deemed valid,
        the Tier-1 or Tier-2 Lesson Manager will activate the Observation as a Lesson
        Identified and transfer it to the appropriate OPR/OCR for review. Observations that
        require work within the Tier will be coordinated through the Tier-1/Tier-2 CLM or
        the appropriate OPR/OCR.
        9.4.1.3. Coordinating Observations Outside a Tier-1. Tier-1 Lesson Managers will
        work together toward resolving an Observation‟s ownership. If the OPR/OCR for an
        Observation belongs to another Tier-1, the owning Tier-1 Admin will contact the
        appropriate Tier-1 Admin for coordination before transferring. Once transferred, the
        accepting Tier-1 assumes responsibility for the Observation. If it is found that the
        OPR/OCR is incorrect, the process will begin again. If ownership cannot be resolved
        at the Tier-1 level, AF/A9L will resolve ownership. All Lessons Identified will be
        worked through to resolution.
  9.5. Disputes between Tiers.
     9.5.1. As Lesson Managers receive Observations submitted by JLLIS users, there may be
     occasions where a Tier-2 is not appropriate to validate that Observation. In these cases,
     the Tier-2 Lesson Manager will transfer the Observation to their Tier-1 for reassignment.
     When doing this, include results of any coordination in the “comment” section of the
     Observation in JLLIS.
     9.5.2. When Observation reassignments between Tier-2 CLMs are disputed, the issue
     should be brought to the attention of the MAJCOM L2 Director to render a recommended
     assignment. If the dispute continues, the MAJCOM L2 Director will present it to
     AF/A9L for L2 GOSG review and coordination. The L2 GOSG is chaired by the
     AF/CVA. The AF/CVA will serve as final arbiter of disputed Observations assignments
     if necessary.
  9.6. JLLIS Maintenance.
     9.6.1. Tier Maintenance. All Tier-1 Administrators should perform periodic Tier
     maintenance. Maintenance includes reviewing the status of “Active” Observations. Any
     Observations that have not been worked in more than 30 days should be reviewed and
     readdressed by the Tier-1 or Tier-2 CLM through the OPR/OCR for resolution, closure or
     removal from the database.
        9.6.1.1. Observations that should be removed include the following: “Test
        Observations,” Observations that are incomplete or unfocused, complaints or personal
        attacks.
22                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


        9.6.1.2. Test Binders and AARs should also be removed periodically to keep the Tier
        free of unnecessary information.
     9.6.2. MAJCOMs or NAFs that are an air component to a UCC may be asked by the
     UCC to participate in the UCC L2 program. Component MAJCOMs and NAFs will
     participate in their UCC‟s L2 program as directed by UCC policy and are authorized to
     coordinate Observations directly with their responsible UCC. Coordination may be
     conducted by emailing the Observation to the UCC JLLIS Administrator or by entering
     the Observation on the UCC JLLIS site.
     9.6.3. MAJCOMs not a component of a UCC will forward Observations requiring Joint,
     DoD Agency or UCC coordination to the HAF Tier-1 or the appropriate MAJCOM/C-
     NAF. The HAF Tier-1 Administrator will notify the responsible action officer/SME who
     will review and validate the Observation with their Joint, Agency or UCC point of
     contact and assume responsibility for tracking the Observation through to resolution.
     9.6.4. JLLIS website status updates are the responsibility of the AF/A9L action
     officer. Updates are available upon request through the responsible AF/A9L action
     officer.
  9.7. JLLIS Configuration Review Board (CRB).
     9.7.1. The JLLIS CRB will be held semiannually as part of the AF L2 Community
     Conference. The AF CRB will be scheduled to allow sufficient time to address AF
     requirements prior to the Joint CRB.
     9.7.2. The Board will review action items from the previous Board, configuration issues,
     modifications and business rules. Each Tier-1 Administrator will have an opportunity to
     provide input during the Air Force JLLIS CRB. New JLLIS technologies will also be
     reviewed during the Technical Sessions of the Air Force L2 Community Conference.
     9.7.3. The Air Force JLLIS CRB is chaired by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
     Tier-1 Administrators and the Recorder are voting members of the CRB. Members of the
     Joint Staff/J7 have a standing invitation to attend. This courtesy is also extended to the
     other members of the Air Force JLLIS and L2 community.
     9.7.4. Each Tier-1 Administrator is responsible to collect input(s) from their respective
     Tier-2s for the Air Force CRB prior to the conference. The purpose is to provide an
     opportunity for Administrators to speak/vote for the actions that affect their Tier. The
     Tier-2 CLMs are not voting members of the Air Force CRB. In the event of a tie during
     the voting process, the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager will cast the deciding vote.
     9.7.5. All Air Force CRB items that impact the other JLLIS master sites must go before
     the Joint Staff/J7 and the Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference (WJTSC)
     CRB for review and approval. The AF JLLIS Program Manager will represent the Air
     Force during the WJTSC on all Air Force JLLIS related issues. Results from the WJTSC
     will be shared and reviewed by the JLLIS L2 community.
  9.8. Network Security.
     9.8.1. Joint Staff/J7 policy and guidance for NIPRNET JLLIS only allows access to
     Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States (ACGU) personnel and Foreign
     Exchange Officers / LNOs sponsored and/or assigned to DoD organizations. United
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                     23


     States Government has a National Disclosure Policy for SIPRNET. The following
     information is in accordance with Joint Staff/J7 guidance pending release of formal DoD
     guidance for JLLIS:
        9.8.1.1. JLLIS information is considered For Official Use Only (FOUO). If there is a
        requirement to convert/migrate FOUO data to a DoD-wide system of Controlled
        Unclassified Information (CUI), the FOUO marking of JLLIS products will help
        prevent commercial access but allow access to those with valid requirements and
        registration (soft certs).
        9.8.1.2. DoD Instruction 8110.1, Multinational Information Sharing Networks
        Implementation, February 6, 2004 implements policy and designates the MNIS
        Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System (MNIS CENTRIXS) as
        the DoD standard for multinational information sharing networks using the Global
        Information Grid (GIG).
     9.8.2. ACGU personnel assigned to or sponsored by a DoD organization and issued a
     Common Access Card (CAC) permitting access to the DoD computer network/system are
     authorized access to JLLIS. These members are authorized to register in JLLIS as
     members of their assigned and sponsoring DoD organization.
        9.8.2.1. Registration is validated and controlled through the organizations‟ security
        office and approved by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.8.2.2. ACGU personnel who are validated and authorized access to the US DoD
        SIPRNET are authorized access to JLLIS on SIPRNET. (i.e., DoDD 8500.01,
        Information Assurance, paragraph 4.8. - 4.9.1)
     9.8.3. AF/A9L guidance concerning loading, access, and release of JLLIS information
     for both sites is IAW Air Force and Joint Staff Network Security Guidance. SIPRNET:
     http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf and NIPRNET: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf. For any
     questions or concerns please contact the JLLIS Program Manager,
     afa9jllis@pentagon.af.mil.
  9.9. JLLIS Tier-1 Administrators and Tier-2 Command Lesson Managers.
     9.9.1. Tier-1 Administrators will:
        9.9.1.1. Be appointed by the MAJCOM L2 Director and the names sent forward to
        the AF/A9L JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.9.1.2. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., permission upgrade requests and system
        malfuncations and modifcation recommendations) to the Air Force JLLIS Program
        Manager for coordination, review and resolution.
        9.9.1.3. Have one vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
        9.9.1.4. Establish and certify Tier-2 CLMs.
        9.9.1.5. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
        teams, Tier-2 Lesson Managers or other authorized users.
        9.9.1.6. Send name, contact information and graphics for the Tier-2 CLM, to the AF-
        JLLIS Program Manager (AF/A9L) for review, approval and implementation. A
24                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


         Tier-2 site cannot be authorized in JLLIS without approval of the applicable Tier-1
         Administrator.
         9.9.1.7. Provide JLLIS and collection guidance for all Tier-2 CLMs assigned within
         the HAF/MAJCOM Tier-1.
         9.9.1.8. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
         (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
         9.9.1.9. At a minimum, conduct Tier maintenance as required to maintain currency.
         Guidelines for Observation and Tier maintenance should be developed locally based
         on the needs of the command and mission requirements.
     9.9.2. Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) will:
         9.9.2.1. Consist of a primary and alternate            to   be   appointed   by   the
         Commander/Director to manage the Tier-2.
         9.9.2.2. Be identified by their MAJCOM/A9 Tier-1 Administrator to the AF/A9L
         JLLIS Program Manager.
         9.9.2.3. Not vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
         9.9.2.4. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
         teams or other authorized users.
         9.9.2.5. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., issues and permissions) to their Tier-1
         Administrator for coordination, review and resolution.
         9.9.2.6. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
         (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
  9.10. Tracking Database Management. L2 organizations will use JLLIS to archive and
  track their Observations and Lessons Identified action items. Exception: organizations with a
  requirement to track lessons on coalition partner networks may use other methods as
  required. Organizations using stand-alone methods should transfer lessons with broader AF
  equity to JLLIS to ensure they are accessible by the widest possible AF and DoD audience.
  9.11. JLLIS Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the JLLIS training program.
  The AF-JLLIS Program Manager is available to provide formal JLLIS training classes for
  Tier-1 Administrators, Tier-2 CLMs and personnel assigned to HAF. Each L2 office will
  establish guidelines for JLLIS training currency and a method to track training completion.
     9.11.1. The Tier-1 Administrators JLLIS training program consists of training newly
     assigned Tier-2 CLMs, establishing a Tier-1 training program for use throughout the
     command, as well as conducting classroom and over-the-shoulder training sessions
     locally through recurring sessions or just-in-time training as required.
     9.11.2. Tier-2 CLMs will provide training for NAF and lower echelon personnel. If the
     Tier-1 has no Tier-2 CLMs assigned, overall training for NAF and/or lower echelon
     personnel remains the responsibility of the Tier-1 Administrator.
     9.11.3. Tier-1/2 training should cover coordinating and tracking Observations through
     the AFLP. Training will include tracking a lesson to resolution and basic authorized
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                     25


     JLLIS user training. Training should include the command‟s local process based on
     command guidance through a tutorial or a locally developed training course.
     9.11.4. MAJCOM/A9L offices will provide their personnel basic authorized JLLIS user
     training, Tier-1 Administrator training for newly assigned Administrator/Managers and
     Tier-2 CLM training.
     9.11.5. Basic Authorized JLLIS User Training is provided by AF/A9L, Tier-1
     Administrator/ Manager or Tier-2 CLMs. This training is for new JLLIS users who will
     use the system on a recurring basis for research, submitting Observations, AARs, etc.
     Basic user training information is also posted on the JLLIS home page.
10. FORMS ADOPTED.
  10.1. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
  10.2. AF IMT 4329, Observation or Lesson Learned (NIPR)
  10.3. AF IMT 4329A, Observation or Lesson Learned (SIPR)
  10.4. AF IMT 4330, After Action Summary Report (NIPR)
  10.5. AF IMT 4330A, After Action Summary Report (SIPR)




                                        Dr. JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN
                                        Director, Studies, & Analyses, Assessments, and
                                        Lessons Learned

                                        (AFRC)

                                        JAMES F. JACKSON, Lt Gen, USAFR
                                        Commander
 26                                       AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program, 10 Oct 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFPD 90-16, Air Force Studies, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned, 4 Jun 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
ACGU—Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Forces
AEG—Air and Space Expeditionary Group
AETF—Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force
AEW—Air and Space Expeditionary Wing
AF—Air Force
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFL2P—AF Lessons Learned Program
AFLP—Air Force Lessons Process
(Added-AFRC) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(Added-AFRC) AFRL2OB—Air Force Reserve Lessons Learned Oversight Board
(Added-AFRC) AFRL2P—Air Force Reserve Lessons Learned Program
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
ANG—Air National Guard
(Added-AFRC) AO—Action Officer
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AOR—Area of Responsibility
(Added-AFRC) ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
CAC—Common Assess Card
(Added-AFRC) CCO—Office Symbol for NAF, ARPC and unit Process Managers
(Added-AFRC) CDR—Consolidated Document Repository
CLM—Command Lessons Manager
C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
CRB—Configuration Review Board
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                            27


CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DCR—DOTMLPF Change Request
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy
(AFRC) DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
(Added-AFRC) ECD—Estimated Completion Date
(Added-AFRC) ECG—Exercise Control Group
(Added-AFRC) FAM—Functional Area Manager
(Added-AFRC) FAR—Functional Area Representative
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GOSG—General Officer Steering Group
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
(Added-AFRC) HQ—Headquarters
(Added-AFRC) IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
IR—Issue Resoulution
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JET—Joint Expeditionary Tasking
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
JLLP—Joint Lessons Learned Program
(Added-AFRC) KPI/M—Key Performance Indicator/Measure
(Added-AFRC) L2OB—Lessons Learned Oversight Board
(Added-AFRC) L2WG—Lessons Learned Working Group
LI—Lessons Identified
LNO—Liaison Officer
L2—Lesson Learned
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
(Added-AFRC) NIPR—Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
 28                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
(Added-AFRC) OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-AFRC) OPS—Operations
(Added-AFRC) POC—Point of Contact
PR—Periodic Report
RFI—Request For Information
(Added-AFRC) RSS—Really Simple Syndication
(Added-AFRC) SIPR—Secure Internet Protocol Router
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—Subject Matter Expert
(Added-AFRC) 8-SPSM—- Eight-Step Problem Solving Model
Stan/Eval—Standardization/Evaluation
TIR—Tracking Issue Resolution
(Added-AFRC) TMT—- Task Management Tool
(Added-AFRC) TTP—Tactics, Techniques & Procedures
TTPs—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UCC—Unified Combatant Command
USAF—United States Air Force
(Added-AFRC) VA—Validation Authority
WJTSC—Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference

Terms
Active—A status of a Lesson Identified indicating that the lesson is currently being worked to
resolution by a DOTMLPF&P OPR.
After Action Report (AAR)—The AAR is a consolidated report that includes an executive
summary covering the event information (e.g., dates, locations, and participants) and
Observations. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in
military operations. AAR Observations should describe how the mission could be/was
improved, potential risks to mission degradation and how to mitigate those risks.
Collection—Collection is a method by which Observations enter the AFLP and involves formal
and informal methods. Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection
efforts or they can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individual Airmen.
In a learning culture, every Airman, civilian and contractor contribute to the AFLP.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               29


Dissemination—Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to get
lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy are factors that implement senior leader guidance and lead to the
development and employment of joint force capabilities.
Lesson Identified—A validated Observation that represents a matter (e.g., capability, concept,
process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson Identified contains a
better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader organization.
Lesson Learned—An insight gained that improves military operations or activities at the
strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
individual or an organization.
Observation—An input from any source into the AFLP. Observations contain information
regarding specific events, activities, circumstances or outcomes and should include sufficient
factual and contextual information to support their validation.
Resolution—Process to ensure Lessons Identified are staffed for action. Resolution actions
should be captured in JLLIS or appropriate documents and tracked to closure.
System of Record (SoR)—An information storage system (commonly implemented on a
computer system), which is the authoritative data source for a given data element or piece of
information. The need to identify systems of record can become acute in organizations where
management information systems have been built by taking output data from multiple source
systems, re-processing this data, and then re-presenting the result for a new business use. Where
the integrity of the data is vital, a data element must either be linked to, or extracted directly from
its system of record. The integrity and validity of any data set is open to question when there is
no traceable connection with a known System of Record.
Validation—Process to ensure an Observation is reviewed by staff functionals and/or
operational experts to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed
through the AFLP.
 30                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 2
 AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING GROUP (AF L2
                         GOSG) CHARTER

A2.1. Purpose. The GOSG is a forum for senior leaders to discuss operational and strategic
level lessons and to shape AFL2P activities.
A2.2. Concept. AF/A9 sponsors an AF/CVA-chaired annual meeting attended by HQ USAF
senior leaders, MAJCOM/CVs and other invited senior leaders. This meeting provides a means
for senior leaders to:
   A2.2.1. Enhance the understanding of L2 from the conduct of operations, exercises and
   contingencies.
   A2.2.2. Inform key process owners of important L2 information that can be used for their
   decisions.
   A2.2.3. Review current CSAF L2 focus areas, status of any associated lessons and proposed
   topics for future CSAF L2 focus areas.
A2.3. Membership:
   A2.3.1. Chair: AF/CVA
   A2.3.2. Co-chair: AF/A9
   A2.3.3. SAF: XC, LL, IA, IG
   A2.3.4. AF: A1, A2, A3/5, A4/7, A8, A9, A10, HC, HO, JA, SE, SG
   A2.3.5. MAJCOM/CVs, NGB/CF
   A2.3.6. LeMay Center/CC, USAFWC/CC, USAFEC/CC
   A2.3.7. AFDW/CV
   A2.3.8. Others as required by the meeting agenda
A2.4. Roles and Responsibilities:
   A2.4.1. AF/CVA chairs the meeting.
   A2.4.2. AF/A9 develops the agenda and content for approval.
   A2.4.3. GOSG members discuss L2 and associated topics for their functional areas.
   A2.4.4. Selected members and guests provide highlights of their L2 activities.
   A2.4.5.1.    AF/A9L serves as GOSG secretariat to organize meetings and accomplish
   follow-on tasks.
A2.5. Timing and Venue:
   A2.5.1. Annual, preferably pre-CORONA
   A2.5.2. HQ USAF (Secure VTC for members outside National Capitol Region)
A2.6. AF Stakeholder GOSG Role:
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                       31


  A2.6.1. Stakeholders GOSGs are formed as advocacy groups related to specific reports or
  threads designated under CSAF Focus Areas.
  A2.6.2. Stakeholder GOSG members will advise collection team members on content of
  specific collections and preview designated reports at the GO/SES level prior to more general
  distribution.
  A2.6.3. Stakeholder GOSG members will validate Observations, advocate for issue
  resolution, implement solutions and incorporate lessons within their area of functional or
  operational responsibility.
32                    AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


                   Attachment 3
     OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012            33


                             Attachment 4
                  AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE
34                                     AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


                           Attachment 5 (Added-AFRC)
                                    MEMBERSHIP

Figure A5.1. HQ AFRC L2WG MEMBERSHIP.
AFRC/A9L (Chair)                     AFRC/HO (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/A1 (Primary and Alternate)      AFRC/IG (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/A2 (Primary and Alternate)      AFRC/JA (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/A3 (Primary and Alternate)      AFRC/PA (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/A4 (Primary and Alternate)      AFRC/RS (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/A5/8 (Primary and Alternate)    AFRC/SE (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/A6 (Primary and Alternate)      AFRC/SG (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/A7 (Primary and Alternate)      RMG (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/FM (Primary and Alternate)      FGC (Primary and Alternate)
AFRC/BA (Primary and Alternate       951st RPSTS (Primary and Alternate)

Figure A5.2. HQ AFR L2OB MEMBERSHIP.
AFRC/CV (Chair)                      AFRC/HC
AFRC/A1                              AFRC/HO

AFRC/A2                              AFRC/IG

AFRC/A3                              AFRC/IP

AFRC/A4                              AFRC/JA

AFRC/A5/8                            AFRC/PA

AFRC/A6                              AFRC/RS

AFRC/A7                              AFRC/SE

AFRC/A9                              AFRC/SG
AFRC/A9L (Facilitator)               FGC

AFRC/FM                              RMG

951 RSPTS
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                         35


                                Attachment 6 (Added-AFRC)
                            AFRC L2 PROCESS FLOWCHART

A6.1. (Added-AFRC) The AFRC Lessons Learned (L2) process flow reflects the standard
work processes. AFRC CCOs, L2 Program Analysts, and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) will
utilize it to promote and codify changes that enhance readiness, improve capability at strategic,
operational and tactical levels with a sustainable performance measure.

Figure A6.1. AFRC L2 Process Flowchart.
 36                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


                                Attachment 7 (Added-AFRC)
                             AFRC COLLECTION PROCESS

A7.1. (Added-AFRC) Collection represents the entry point into the Lessons Learned process.
Every airman, organization, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the culture of learning
and participate in the AFLP process. Entry into JLLIS enables L2 professionals and Subject
Matter Experts (SMEs) to review, analyze and resolve issues across the DOTMLPF&P that
enhance warfighting capability. AFRC established procedures that reflect standard work
processes designed to streamline workflows and improve timeliness while maintaining necessary
analysis and implementation requirements. It also incorporates standards that enable analysts at
all levels to expertly resolve issues at the appropriate levels of command. The flowchart
contained in figure A7.1 below reflects the AFRC flow associated to the collection process.
(Note: It is important to remember the L2 process is not designed to bypass the chain of
command and lower echelons will address Observations at their level and forward those beyond
their scope to the appropriate level.)

Figure A7.1. AFRC Collection Process.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                       37


                               Attachment 8 (Added-AFRC)
                             AFRC VALIDATION PROCESS

A8.1. (Added-AFRC) Purpose. The purpose of validation is to allow SMEs to determine the
proper course of action. Observations identified for validation are input into JLLIS for
management. Validation Authorities (VAs) will work with originators to gain a clear
understanding of the Observation and verify that Observation is worthy of inclusion in the L2
process. Action Officers (AOs) will ensure the Observation status is "Active" in JLLIS, as well
as Steps 1-3 of the 8-SPSM are completed and entered into JLLIS, before staffing the
Observation for analysis/validation with the appropriate SME. NAF and Wing level validation
processes should follow characteristics of the command level process to ensure Lessons
Identified contain required information needed by command functional experts to fully assess
and resolve the LI to a DOTMLPF&P change standard. (Note: It is important to remember the
L2 process is not designed to bypass the chain of command and lower echelons will address
Observations at their level and forward those beyond their scope to the appropriate level.) NAF
and Wing level originated LIs must complete steps 1-3 of the 8-Step Problem Solving Model
before submission to HQ AFRC for action. Due to limited NAF staff functional representation,
AFRC Staff support may be required for SME analysis and validation.

Figure A8.1. AFRC Validation Process.




A8.2. (Added-AFRC) Assignment of Observations. Action Officers (AOs) review the
Observations for accuracy and worthiness of inclusion into the L2 process.
NAF/ARPC/Wing/Group/CCO assigns Observations to SME for analysis and validation. AFRC/
A9L Division Chief assigns AO for staffing.
 38                                          AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


A8.3. (AFRC) Responsibilities of the Action Officer (AO). Validation begins when an SME
is assigned an Observation. AOs will review the Observation, determine appropriate functional
SME or AFRC staff three-letter for action. AO determines if the level of detail in the
Observation is appropriate to forward to an SME for validation and updates status of the
Observation. AO will prepare an Observation staffing package for SME validation using the
validation/resolution tasking template, assign suspense of 10 working days, and forward the staff
package to the AFRC/A9L division workflow box. When the tasking is sent to the SME, the AO
will update the Observation in the appropriate tracker/database (e.g. Assigned to AFRC/XXX for
Validation; Suspense: DD/MM/YYYY; initials).
A8.4. (AFRC) Subject Matter Expert (SME) Review. SMEs will review each Observation
and determine the following: 1) Have Steps 1-3 of the 8-Step Problem Solving Model been
identified? 2) Has the Observation been correlated to at least one DOTMLPF&P change? 3) Has
the Observation provided references, when applicable? If the Observation has an operational
time/mission critical impact, then the Observation will be “Shared” to other potentially impacted
organizations for assessment and inclusion in their Techniques, Tactics or Procedures (TTPs).
A8.5. (AFRC) AFRC/A9L Review of SME Response:
   A8.5.1. (Added-AFRC) If the SME indicates that there is not enough information available
   to evaluate the validity of the Observation, the AO and /or SME will contact the Observation
   originator for clarification. Extend the internal suspense/formal suspense by five working
   days and update the Observation with the new suspense.
   A8.5.2. (Added-AFRC) If the tasked SME indicates that they are not the right OPR, A9L
   will request they suggest an appropriate OPR within the A-Staff or potentially an
   organization outside of AFRC. If it was sent to the wrong OPR, the AO will review with the
   Division chief and determine proper OPR for validation. If the proper OPR is in the AFRC
   staff, the package will be re-staffed for SME validation. Otherwise, the Observation will be
   forwarded to the appropriate organization. The AO will draft a memo, email, etc as required
   and coordinate with the division chief to determine appropriate level (2/3-letter) to staff the
   package. When AFRC/A9L sends the memo, the AO will update the Observation in the
   appropriate tracker/database (e.g. Forwarded to XXX/A9L for action; Date: DD/MM/YYYY;
   initials).
   A8.5.3. (Added-AFRC) SMEs will assess the validity of the Observation and determine if
   the Observation is a valid Lesson Identified. If the Observation is a valid LI, it will be moved
   to the resolution phase. If the Observation is a valid Lesson Identified and is deemed as time
   critical and/or mission critical then the LI will be concurrently disseminated to other
   potentially impacted organizations and individuals. The AO will update the Observation with
   details from the validation response and update the status to “Validated” in the appropriate
   tracker/database as required (e.g. Validated by: AFRC/XXX; Date: DD/MM/YYYY;
   initials).
   A8.5.4. (Added-AFRC) If the SME says the Observation is not valid. The SME will
   provide complete justification and return to the AO who will review the information
   provided and make a recommendation to the AFRC/A9L Division Chief. If AFRC/A9L
   concurs with the A-Staff POC response, the AO will update the Observation in the
   appropriate tracker/database as “Pending” (e.g. Pending: No Action; Date: DD/MM/YYYY;
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        39


  initials). If no agreement is reached at the AFRC A-Staff Division-level, Observations will be
  raised to the next level for validation.
  A8.5.5. (Added-AFRC) The Validation process concludes when an Observation transitions
  to an LI, is deemed not valid, or the Observation is transferred to another command A9 for
  action.
 40                                          AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


                                Attachment 9 (Added-AFRC)
                            AFRC DISSEMINATION PROCESS

A9.1. (Added-AFRC) Purpose. The purpose of dissemination is to share Lessons Learned and
improved methods that affect techniques, tactics, or procedures with Air Force personnel. Once
determined that a Lesson Learned is ready for dissemination, AFRC/A9L will precisely push
them to those organizations that may immediately benefit from direct notification and globally
publish using JLLIS. The primary customers for “Precise Push” include but are not limited to
AFRC NAFs, AFRC Wings, MAJCOMs, and HAF.
A9.2. (AFRC) Precise Push Methodology. Examples include targeted email distribution list,
bulletin publications, etc. The AO will draft email for A9L, author a newsletter article, or
provide additional documentation, as required, and update the Observation (e.g. Published in:
XXXX, DD/MM/YYYY; initials) and update the A9L tracker/database.
A9.3. (AFRC) Responsive Pull. A9L will support “Responsive Pull” and “Request for
Information (RFI)” efforts by using a variety of Air Force tools, databases (JLLIS), libraries and
Portal pages. AFRC A9L will ensure command L2 products are available on the AFRC JLLIS
Tier site as well as the AFRC/A9L Air Force Portal Page.

Figure A9.1. AFRC Dissemination Process.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                       41


                               Attachment 10 (Added-AFRC)
                             AFRC RESOLUTION PROCESS

A10.1. (Added-AFRC) Purpose. The purpose of the resolution process is to ensure that
Lessons Identified are worked to closure and become Lessons Learned. Directors and command
functional experts are vital to ensuring that command DOTMLPF&P equities are supported and
changes occur in a timely manner. AFRC/A9L will track/manage each Observation to closure or
transfer.

Figure A10.1. AFRC Resolution Process.




   A10.1.1. (Added-AFRC) The OPR resolves the LI using the 8-Step Problem Solving
   format (see paragraph 6.1.1.4).
   A10.1.2. (Added-AFRC) OPR will contact the submitter to ensure clarity of the LI.
   A10.1.3. (Added-AFRC) OPR tracks the LI until resolved, provides update to open LIs to
   the L2WG Any LI over 12 months from date submitted will also be briefed at the L2OB.
A10.2. (Added-AFRC) Resolution. If a SME determines that an issue is valid (validation
phase) and requires resolution, they will initiate the 5-panel briefing slide, and the 8- Step
Problem Solving format (A3) form. A9L AOs will update the Observation with the required
information (OPR: AFRC/XXX; POC Name/Rank/DSN/email; ECD: DD/MM/YYYY;
Details/comments from 2-Letter response; initials). AOs will also ensure the Observation status
 42                                         AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012


is "Validated" in both JLLIS and the internal tracker/database. SMEs will resolve issues and
verify the potential solutions from Observations.
A10.3. (Added-AFRC) A9L Periodic Review of Progress on Open Issues/Lessons. A9L AOs
will conduct periodic reviews with SMEs to maintain visibility and accountability during the
validation/resolution process. In addition, A9L will provide the opportunity to discuss proposed
solutions, roadblocks, and the way-ahead for issues/Lessons. A9L will progress reviews using
the L2WG forum. The purpose of the periodic review is to review status of open
Observations/Lessons, review status of Observations/Lessons closed since last review & update
AFRC Staff on A9L dissemination of closed Observations/Lessons. At the conclusion of a
review, the A9L AO will update the appropriate tracker/database, e.g. (Formally reviewed by
AFRC/A9L; Date: DD/MM/YYYY; initials). A9L AOs will assist SMEs in overcoming
obstacles as requested.
   A10.3.1. (Added-AFRC) AFRC/A9L will monitor the status of all Observations/issues
   /Lessons currently in the AFRCAF-JLLIS tier and provide analysis of the Lessons Identified
   progress. AFRC/A9L and action officers will keep this database up to date on actions being
   worked on both NIPRNET & SIPRNET.
A10.4. (Added-AFRC) The resolution process successfully concludes when Lessons Identified
(LIs) are determined to have a viable solution that results in a DOTMLPF&P change or that
senior leaders have determined to accept the risk as acceptable and take no further action.
JLLIS is the primary vehicle to disseminate Closed Lessons.
AFI 90-1601_AFRCSUP_I 9 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        43


                               Attachment 11 (Added-AFRC)
                AFRC/A9L SUPPORT TO AFRC CRISIS ACTION TEAM

A11.1. (Added-AFRC) As outlined in AFRCI 10-208, the primary function of the AFRC Crisis
Action Team (CAT) Ops Center is to bring together all individuals needed to respond to higher
headquarters taskings that deploy, redeploy, reconstitute and sustain AFRC forces to combatant
and/or MAJCOM commanders. The objective of CAT Ops Center operations is to provide timely
and appropriate response to all taskings in support of real-world contingencies and exercise
scenarios. Contingencies may be the result of international instabilities or other unforeseen
events of natural or human origin.
A11.2. (AFRC) AFRC/A9 Functional Area Representative (FAR) Duties. The primary
duties of all AFRC CAT FARs are defined by AFRCI 10-208 Crisis Action Team. The A9
FAR‟s primary focus will be coordinating with other A-staff FARs and Functional Area
Managers (FAMs) to facilitate Lessons Learned information data mining, collection and
dissemination. The AFRC/A9 FAR will:
   A11.2.1. (Added-AFRC) Check SIPRNET/NIPRNET JLLIS accounts at least twice daily
   for Lessons Learned.
   A11.2.2. (Added-AFRC) Check SIPRNET/NIPRNET CAT accounts at least monthly for
   connectivity.
   A11.2.3. (Added-AFRC) Accomplish FAR training requirements listed in the AFRCI 10-
   208.
   A11.2.4. (Added-AFRC) Perform “Responsive Pull” actions to mine data for Lessons, after
   action reports, collections associated with event.
A11.3. (Added-AFRC) Disposition and Dissemination of Observations Post Event. AF-JLLIS
is used to collect Observations and disseminate Lessons Learned and After Action Reports from
the AFRC CAT. Guidance and support from CAT leadership (Director and Ops Officer) is
needed to successfully capture and collect Observations. It is also important to coordinate with
the other A9 agencies involved. While AFRC/A9L is the command Lessons Learned program
OPR, it provides a support role to lead organizations during operational or exercise activities.
Close coordination with the OPR is vital to avoid duplication of effort and ensure Observations
are captured at the appropriate level.
