BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AFISRA INSTRUCTION 33-104
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEILLANCE AND                                                                  16 APRIL 2012
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY
                                                               Communications and Information

                                                        MANAGING THE PROCESSES OF
                                                 PRINTING, DUPLICATING, REPLICATING,
                                                 DOCUMENT CONVERSION AND COPYING


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the AF e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR                                               Certified by: AFISRA/A6
                                                                          (Colonel Eric J. Pierce)
                                                                                         Pages: 9


This publication implements AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management. It prescribes and
explains procedures and standards of the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA) Combined Intelligence Publishing Service (CIPS) facility
under the provisions of DoDI 5330.03, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services.
Print plant limitations and the AFISRA copier program. The AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR assures
the intelligence printing, binding, publishing, production, and reproduction of all printed
material. The production and replication of Compact Disk (CD), Digital Video Disk (DVD),
document archiving, microfilm, and microfilm/fiche conversion is accomplished effectively and
efficiently, in a manner conducive to national security and consistent with the authorities and
duties of all governing directives, instructions, and regulations. This publication primarily
applies to AFISRA units and tenant organizations located on Security Hill and Medina Annex.
This publication also applies to AFISRA geographically separated agencies, organizations and
units, to include authorized civilian intelligence counterparts, who are authorized the services of
the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR. Certain elements of this instruction and prescribed forms may be
used at AFISRA field units. This publication does not apply to AFISRA-gained Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System        (AFRIMS)       Records        Disposition    Schedule      (RDS)       located     at
 2                                                               AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012


https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required

1. Responsibilities and Limitations.
     1.1. General Information. The AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR facility is a CIPS entity and is the
     consolidated     organization     for    printing,    bindery,    high-speed,     high-volume
     copying/duplicating, CD, DVD creation/replication, micrographics, micrographic conversion
     and document image conversion and or automation services. The following information
     provides a listing of responsibilities and limitations of this CIPS facility. If an item is not
     covered in this Agency instruction, the Printing Officer will research the item and make a
     decision on the item in question.
     1.2. Advertising. Do not put advertisements or endorsements of civilian organizations or
     sponsors in any government publication.
     1.3. Art Signatures. Remove or reduce signature on freehand art. Do not print products with
     signatures of technical illustrators, designers, typographers, or layout artist when the author’s
     name may be printed.
     1.4. Binding Rules. Avoid unnecessary binding. Use the most cost effective, less expensive
     method possible.
     1.5. Business Cards. Business cards are authorized reproduction for official activities
     “Office of Secretary of Defense, Administration and Management," memorandum entitled
     "Printing of Business Cards, 28 August 1998" using existing software and Agency purchased
     card stock. Business cards are to be used in connection with official activities. Individuals
     requesting business cards must use one of the templates provided by the section. All
     business card requests will be evaluated and approved by the Printing Officer prior to
     production.
     1.6. Copyright Notices. The office of primary responsibility (OPR) for a publication must
     provide a release for copyrighted material. For copyright notices, use a type size that is
     smaller than both text and illustration legends.
     1.7. Courtesy Credit Lines. When non-Government parties contribute or loan un-
     copyrighted materials, credit the source. When several materials come from a single non-
     Government source, credit the source in an un-displayed paragraph using a type size small
     than that of the text and illustration legend.
     1.8. Decals and Other Markings. Obtain decals and markings, such as those for local or
     single MAJCOM applications through the Government Printing Office (GPO). The printing
     officer will evaluate and approve all decal and other markings request. The customer service
     section will accomplish all GPO work requests. The printing officer will confirm with
     AFISRA/HO (History Office) that all emblems are officially approved for use.
     1.9. Die-Cut Windows in Publications. If you have a valid need for a die-cut window on a
     product, your request must be forwarded to the printing officer with a letter of justification
     explaining why your product must have a die-cut window rather than less expensive
     alternatives. The printing officer will be the final approval authority.
AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012                                                                      3


  1.10. Expedite Jobs. Normal production turn-around time is three to five duty days from the
  time the work is approved for printing. Some production projects will take considerably less
  time. In the event that an OPR needs a work request produced with a very short suspense, a
  letter of justification requesting the job be expedited must be forwarded to the printing officer
  along with the work to be expedited.
  1.11. Illustrations. Use illustrations only if they serve the missions interest rather than an
  individual’s interest. Ensure the illustration is the smallest size possible to achieve their end
  purpose. They must show good taste and are non-offensive.
  1.12. Invitations and RSVPs. Invitations and RSVP cards will be produced for Change of
  Command, high-level awards banquets, unit activations/inactivations, and other ceremonies
  that require this type of protocol item. Commanders are required to keep the amount of
  invitations and RSVP cards to a minimum. Electronic invitations and RSVP’s should be
  considered as an alternative to printed media. Printed quantities will be kept to a minimum.
  The Printing Officer will approve all invitations and RSVP requests. Print Plant In House
  Self Help Copier Resource will be used for all other programs with the approval of the
  protocol office and the Printing Officer.
  1.13. Legal and Business Constraints. Customer’s signature on all work orders certifying
  that the printing, duplicating, binding, replication, or digital conversion is for official
  government business for an organization that is authorized the use of a CIPS facility. It is
  illegal to produce or procure work for private individuals, private organizations, or for
  commercial concerns.
  1.14. Mastheads Publications. Mastheads must include the military department, publishing
  command and its issuing unit, the names of all editors involved in the creation of the
  publication.
  1.15. Multicolor Printing. The vastly reduced cost caused by new technology, production,
  publishing, and dissemination process, has made it now cost effective to print more products
  in multicolor. The printing officer will take the total printing cost into consideration to
  ensure all CIPS products are printed in the most efficient and cost effective manner. The use
  of color in the requested product must have operational significance and not used solely for it
  decorative effect.
  1.16. Printing, Duplicating and Replication for Moral Welfare Recreation and Services
  Activities. Moral Welfare Recreation and Services Activities, Non-appropriated Fund
  Instrumentalities (NAFI) and Private Associations are not authorized the use of a CIPS
  facility.
  1.17. Programs will be produced for Official Change of Command, high-level Awards
  Banquets, Unit activations/inactivations and other ceremonies that require this type of
  protocol item. This requirement will be routed through the HQ AFISRA Protocol office to
  ensure compliance with protocol standards. Programs will be kept to two 8.5” X 11” pages
  maximum printed both sides; with the individual pages being 5.5” X 8.5.” Requesters are
  required to keep the total amount requested to a minimum with only ten percent of the
  complete printing request will be printed in color when possible. The remainder of the
  requested should not be printed in color and should be printed in black and white. Programs
  will not be produced for unofficial retirements or promotion ceremonies. Individuals in need
 4                                                              AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012


     of these items are authorized to use desk top publishing stations and are allowed to use the
     self-help copiers within the SCVR section to satisfy this requirement.
     1.18. Standard Paper Stock. To conserve resources all jobs will be printed on both sides of
     the sheet. If a product requires one side only printing, a letter of justification must
     accompany the work request and be forwarded to the Printing Officer for approval. Standard
     Paper Stock size is 8.5” x 11.” This CIPS plant can produce products from business card size
     to poster size.
     1.19. Stationery/Memo Pads. Memo pads are produced only for two letter offices and for
     conference support. These are to be kept generic. Names of individuals are not authorized to
     be placed on memo pads.
2. Government Printing Office (GPO). This CIPS printing plant is authorized to deal directly
with the GPO on requests that cannot be produced in-house. The AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR
customer service center is the focal point for all printing purchase requests from GPO. All
requests will be evaluated for their mission impact and will be approved by the Printing Officer
before printing is purchased through GPO.
3. Managing Micrographics/Micrographics Conversion Operations. The AFISRA/A6 Det
4/SCVR CIPS printing plant is the focal point for all of Micrographic, Micrographics
conversion, Micrographic Fiche, Diazo Fiche, 16mm and 35mm micrographic film production
and management. AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR will also convert existing media into electronic, CD
and or DVD media for ease of archival storage, movement, retrieval and printing.
     3.1. Managing the Document Archival, Micrographics Conversion Program. This CIPS
     printing plant is tasked with the responsibility of converting documents that have been
     identified as needing to be archived into a media that meets the OPR’s needs and satisfies
     archival/retrieval standards.      AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR will also convert existing
     micrographic media into a better and less costly product ensuring that the information is
     easily managed, used, handled, transferred, stored, and preserved to archival standards, with
     ease of retrieval of documents and information. AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR will also be
     tasked to use the best system designs so the end user will have ease of retrieval, viewing,
     printing, replicating, and storing. With a strong emphasis on security, this CIPS facility will
     ensure the converted product is secure, with no window for the information to become
     altered from its original form. A standard will be developed to ensure the program achieves
     a compatible finished product standard in producing a final OPR product. Conversion of
     documents, microfilm, fiche, and reel film will be converted into electronic documents,
     magnetic media, CD and or DVD media. The OPR will absorb all packaging, postage, and
     shipping cost. The OPR will have all hard documents, micrographic fiche, replicated fiche,
     Diazo fiche, 16mm and 35mm micrographic film returned for final disposition.
4. Production/replication of CDs and DVDs. The OPR must ensure the product is not
obtainable through other avenues, i.e., the originator, commercially, other organizations, and that
no copyrighted items are included in the CD or DVD. If an item has copyrighted material, a
written copyright release must be included with the work order. This includes music, photos,
illustrations, etc., which may be used in the product. All CD’s and DVD’s will have a
classification designation printed directly on the media. CD’s and DVD’s produced by the
department of defense must have approval from the originator. Those having an official
AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012                                                                     5


production identification number (PIN) must have written approval from the Defense Audio
Visual Activity, Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania before duplication can be accomplished.
5. Bindery. Bindery operations include collating, cutting, folding, Comb bind, padding, perfect
bind, scoring, shrink wrapped, slip sheet, spiral binding, stapling, tape-bind, and two/three-hole
punch.
   5.1. Tape-bind. Tape binding will be provided on a limited basis to the customer on booklet
   type work request. Because of the high price of tape binding, this type of work request will
   be accomplished on a case-by-case basis. The customer must consider the increased cost
   involved in tape binding products and should consider stapling their product Vs tape binding.
   5.2. Comb bind, perfect bind, and spiral binding will be provided to the customer on a
   limited basis. Because of the increased price associated with this type of work, all requests
   will be accomplished on a case-by-case basis. The customer must consider the increased cost
   involved and should consider stapling their product Vs tape binding.
6. Customer/OPR Responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the customer to ensure the
submitted product is in its final form and ready for production. The submitted product must be
camera ready, error free, and in a format that is compatible with the programs used in
AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR. The customer has the responsibility to make all changes or correct
any items within their product prior to AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR starting the work process. The
customer must also take into consideration the need for work time in the projection of their final
product due date, i.e., pre-press, plating, printing, and bindery/finishing.
   6.1. Submission of Work Orders. Submit a completed AFRISA Form 215, Request For
   Reprographics Service with the entire product to be reproduced to the AFISRA/A6 Det
   4/SCVR customer service desk. Multiple page requests must have an AFISRA Form 216,
   Page Sequence Sheet completed and attached. All routine work orders submitted have a
   standard three to five duty-day turn-around completion schedule. The Printing Officer must
   approve all work orders that require an expedited timetable.
   6.2. OPR Approval. Work orders that must be proofed prior to production require an OPR
   review and approval. The OPR must sign an approval statement prior to the project going to
   production.
   6.3. Work Order Content Format. Products submitted for reproduced must be in a camera-
   ready format, certified error free by the OPR. AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR does not do
   corrections or product manipulation. All product set-ups/manipulation must be accomplished
   by the OPR or the Graphics Section prior to submission of the work order.
   6.4. Multiple Page Work Request. All multi-page work requests will be printed in a duplex
   format and must have a completed AFISRA Form 216 attached. Multiple page work request
   that require single sided printing must have a letter of justification submitted explaining the
   reason for single sided printing. It is not cost effective to print a product single sided. The
   Printing Officer will be the final approval authority for single-sided multiple page work
   request. OPRs will submit a hard copy or an electronic copy of the product to the
   AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR mailbox at AFISRA_Print_Plant_Jobs@us.af.mil).
 6                                                              AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012


7. Items not Authorized for Reproduction. The following items are not authorized for
reproduction in the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR CIPS printing plant.
     7.1. Calendars. Calendars are to be purchased at the Local Purchase Store.
     7.2. Calling and Greeting Cards. Calling and greeting cards are considered a personal
     expense items and appropriated funds will not be used to procure these items.
     7.3. Personal items. Any item that is personal in nature is unauthorized.
     7.4. Private organizations. Work for private organizations is unauthorized and will not be
     produced using appropriated funds.
8. Copier Program.
     8.1. Copiers. Use copiers only when necessary to satisfy mission requirements. For
     products that require more than 30 copies use the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR, Print Plant for
     reproduction or the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR self-help copiers. All organizations wanting to
     purchase a copier must coordinate their efforts through the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR copier
     program manager and the Agency contracting office.
     8.2. Office Color Copiers. All color office copiers within AFISRA must be on file with the
     Agency Copier Manager. All copies made on color copiers will be reported to the Agency
     Copier Manager on a monthly basis. Copier Monitors will ensure production from color
     copiers is used only when there is an operational need for color products.
     8.3. High-Speed Copiers/Duplicators.          The only organization authorized high-speed
     copier/duplicators is the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR print plant.                      A high-speed
     copier/duplicator is defined as a copier that produces 70 or more copies per minute. A unit
     may request a high-speed copier/duplicator by submitting a letter of justification to the
     AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR, Printing Officer. The request will be evaluated and forward a
     recommendation to the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR, Visual Production Chief. If approved, the
     unit will be issued a letter of authorization and the unit will submitting a monthly production
     report to the AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR, Agency Copier Manager no later than the last duty
     day of the month.
     8.4. Responsibilities of Commanders. Commanders must assign a primary and alternate
     copier monitor by letter to manage the organization’s Copier site.
     8.5. Appointment Letters. The primary and alternate’s first, last, and middle name, complete
     organizations name, functional address symbol (FAS), date assigned, projected date expected
     report of station (DEROS), copier information (make, type and model number), copier site
     number, monthly copier production limit, and telephone number. Submit appointment letter
     to: AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR, ATTN: AFISRA Copier Program Manager, 102 Hall Blvd,
     Suite 106, Lackland AFB, TX 78243.
     8.6. Copier Program Manager Responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the Agency Copier
     Manager to ensure the successful operation of all areas of the Agency copier program. This
     responsibility includes but is not limited to; administering day to day operational guidance to
     all copier sites, maintaining a copier site master file on each copier within the Agency,
     accomplishing an annual Staff Assistance Visit to all copier sites, collecting data on all
     assigned copier sites, making payment to contractors for applicable service.
AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012                                                                    7


  8.7. Conduct Annual Staff Assistant Visits (SAVs). Within the first month of the coming
  fiscal year the Agency Copier Manager will establish a SAV schedule for the Agency. It is
  the responsibility of the Agency Copier Manager to ensure all SAVs are documented, with
  follow-up action in regards to discrepancies found.
  8.8. Submission of Monthly Copier Meter Readings. The Agency Copier Manager will
  submit monthly copier site copy production to the vendor and the Printing Officer on the
  established due date.
  8.9. Maintain Copier Sites Records. Information on all copiers assigned to AFISRA and all
  associated units will be maintained by the Agency Copier Manager in a copier record file set.
  This responsibility includes all color, and black and white copiers. Each file will contain:
  Copier Monitor appointment letter; annotation of mandatory copier monitor annual training;
  letter from commander requesting/establishing classification reproduction level of assigned
  copier; annual SAV inspection checklist; annual SAV inspection to include findings;
  monthly meter readings; and miscellaneous correspondence.
     8.9.1. Copier Sites that Produce Classified. The Agency Copier Manager and
     AFISRA/A6S are required to maintain a complete listing of copier sites that produce
     classified material on office copying machinery. This listing will include: organization;
     primary and alternate copier monitors; building number; room number; phone number;
     and the level of classified products produced. The copier site will receive a letter in
     response authorizing the site to produce classified copies. This letter will be maintained
     in the office copier site file.
     8.9.2. Annual Copier Monitor Training. The Agency Copier Manager will accomplish
     an annual copier monitor training session once a year. This is mandatory training for all
     primary and alternate copier site monitors. The annual copier monitor training will
     include all administrative duties of the copier site, all copier operational duty functions,
     management responsibilities of the copier monitor, limitations of the copier monitors, and
     a question and answer session with the monitors. The Agency Copier Manager will
     notify the copier site monitor of the projected training date no less than four weeks before
     the posted training date. With an estimated window of the time the projected SAV will
     be accomplished.
  8.10. Copier Monitor Responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the copier site monitor to
  ensure the successful operation of the unit copier program. This responsibility includes but is
  not limited to, monitoring the copier site production, ensuring all copies are mission related.
  Administering day-to-day operation of the copier site, providing guidance to all copier site
  end users, maintaining a copier site master file, which includes: appointment letter; letter
  from the unit commander designating the copier as a classified copying site; copier monitors
  handbook; monthly production meter readings; equipment downtime ledger; annual staff
  assistance visit correspondence; and copies of all correspondence/miscellaneous. The Copier
  Monitor must also complete and maintain the following forms/visual aids:
     8.10.1. AFISRA Form 217, Copy Machine Limitations and Unlawful Reproduction.
     This form will be posted in plain view of the copier user. The purpose of this form is to
     ensure the copier user adheres to the set number of copies per original as well as
     certifying that the copies do not infringe on any set limitations.
8                                                             AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012


       8.10.2. AFISRAVA 31-402, Stop-Do Not Use This Machine for Collateral or SCI
       Classified Reproduction-Stop, must be placed in plain sight of copiers that are restricted
       from the production of classified material.
       8.10.3. AFISRAVA 31-403, Classified Reproduction Rules must be placed in plain sight
       of copiers that are allowed the reproduction of classified material.
    8.11. Copier Site Meter Readings. Copier monitors will submit monthly copier meter
    readings to the AFISRA Copier Manager not later than the 24th day of the month. The only
    exception to this rule is when the copier contract is about to expire, then the meter reading
    will be taken on 30 September, unless otherwise directed by the copier manager. In that
    instance, the Copier Manager will notify each copier site in writing as to the last day
    production will be allowed and the exact date the meter reading must be turned into the
    Agency Copier Manager’s office.
    8.12. Copier Security. Each Copier Monitor must ensure the copier site is secure, all copies
    being produced are mission related, and the number of copies per original is not being
    abused. The copier monitor must also have their director or commander submit a letter
    requesting the unit copier certified for the production of classified material if classified
    material is to be reproduced on the office copier. This letter must be received by
    AFISRA/A6 Det 4/SCVR and routed to the AFISRA Information Systems Security Manager
    (ISSM). Once submitted and reviewed, a letter authorizing the site to produce classified
    material to the requested level will be issued to the requesting site before any classified
    copies can be produced. This authorization letter will be maintained in the on-site office
    copier file.
    8.13. Escorts/Copier Maintenance/ Equipment Malfunctions. The copier site Copier
    Monitor will ensure escorts are provided for copier service technicians, to include copier
    preventative maintenance, copier repairs, copier upgrades, copier removal, and copier
    installations. For routine maintenance or in the event of a copier failure the Copier Monitor
    will annotate the copy equipment as being down on their AFRISA Form 218, Equipment
    Downtime Ledger.




                                            ROBERT OTTO, Maj Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
AFISRAI33-104 16 APRIL 2012                                                       9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5330.03, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services, 8 February 2006
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFISRAVA 31-402, Stop-Do Not Use This Machine for Collateral or SCI Classified
Reproduction-Stop, 25 January 2008
AFISRAVA 31-403, Classified Reproduction Rules, 25 January 2008
Prescribed Forms
AFISRA Form 215, Request for Reprographics Service
AFISRA Form 216, Page Sequence Sheet
AFISRA Form 217, Copying Machine Limitations and Unlawful Reproduction
AFISRA Form 218, Equipment Downtime Ledger
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CD—Compact Disk
CIPS—Combined Intelligence Publishing Service
DEROS—Date Expected Report of Station
DVD—Digital Video Disk
IAW—In Accordance With
ISSM—Information Systems Security Manager
NAFI—Non-appropriated Fund Instrumentalities
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSVP—Please Reply
SAV—Staff Assistant Visit
