BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                                       36-2805
SURVEILLANCE AND
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                                      26 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/CCF                                                       Certified by: AFISRA/DS
                                                                       (Mr. Kenneth Williams)
Supersedes:   AFISRAI 36-2805, 28 April                                                Pages: 7
              2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Programs and establishes the Headquarters Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance (ISR) Agency (AFISRA) Air Force policy for quarterly awards programs,
annual awards programs and special recognition programs. It outlines responsibilities for awards
programs and specifies how to nominate deserving individuals or units for these awards. This
publication applies to all AFISRA active duty Air Force, AFISRA-assigned Air Force Reserve
(AFRES) and Air National Guard (ANG) members, and civilian employees paid through
appropriated funds assigned to the HQ AFISRA Staff, the Air Force Cryptologic Office (AFCO),
and the Air Force Geospatial Intelligence Office (AFGO). It does not apply to Centers, Wings,
or Groups subordinate either to the Headquarters AFISRA nor to units assigned to these
organizations located in San Antonio, Texas.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Maintain
records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with
(IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.
 2                                                        AFISRAI36-2805 26 OCTOBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes unit of assignment applicability; changes the requirements for board
members (paragraph 5.1); changes method of scoring packages (paragraph 5.2), rescinds the
AFISRA Form 24, HQ AFISRA Awards Score Sheet; and changes the approving authority for
board selections (paragraph 5.2.3). This eliminates the requirement for the Wingman Award (to
be included in the revised AFI 36-2805/AFISRA Supplement). All other changes were
administrative in nature.
1. Award Categories. A professional will be chosen as the HQ AFISRA quarterly and annual
winner in the below categories. In the event the winner is assigned outside of San Antonio,
Texas, a “Staff” winner will also be recognized.
     1.1. Field Grade Officer (FGO) Category. FGOs in grades O-4 and O-5 (excluding O-6
     selects).
     1.2. Company Grade Officer (CGO) Category. CGOs in grades O-1 through O-3.
     1.3. Senior Noncommissioned Officer (SNCO) Category. SNCOs in grades E-7 and E-
     8(excluding E-9 selects).
     1.4. Noncommissioned Officer (NCO) Category. NCOs in grades E-5 and E-6.
     1.5. Junior Enlisted Members (JEM) Category. JEM in grades E-1 through E-4.
     1.6. First Sergeant (1st Sgt) Category. 1st Sgts who have graduated from the USAF First
     Sergeant Academy, been awarded the 8F000 Special Duty Indicator (SDI) and are currently
     performing duty in an authorized/funded position. This is an annual category only.
     1.7. Civilian Categories. Civilians will compete in designated categories based on pay grade
     and supervisory categories as published by the 502nd Air Base Wing.
2. Award Periods.
     2.1. Quarterly Awards. Quarterly awards periods are 1 January through 31 March (1st Qtr),
     1 April through 30 June (2d Qtr), 1 July through 30 September (3rd Qtr), and 1 October
     through 31 December (4th Qtr).
     2.2. Annual Awards. The annual awards period is 1 January through 31 December.
3. Nomination Requirements.
     3.1. Unit of Assignment. Personnel must be assigned to the Headquarters Staff, AFCO or
     AFGO for a minimum of one-half the nomination period to be eligible for consideration in
     HQ AFISRA quarterly or annual awards program.
     3.2. Rank or Grade. Personnel must have served in one of the applicable ranks or grades
     from paragraphs 1.1 through 1.7 of this instruction for a majority of the nomination period
     for the category they are nominated for. Personnel with a promotion sequence number will
     compete with their respective peers in the rank they possess at the last day of the recognition
     period except as noted in paragraphs 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3.
     3.3. First Sergeants. Nominees must have served in the position of First Sergeant and held
     the SDI 8F000 for at least 6-months during the award period.
AFISRAI36-2805 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  3


   3.4. Quality Force Requirements. Nominees must: not be on, nor have been on, the control
   roster during the award period; currently meet minimum acceptable standards on the fitness
   assessment program; not currently be under investigation during the award period; and not
   have had an open/active unfavorable information file (UIF) or Article 15 during the award
   period.
   3.5. Active Duty, Guard and Reserve Airmen are eligible to compete in all military
   categories provided they meet the requirements of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2.
4. Nomination Procedures.
   4.1. Each Two-Letter Directorate, AFCO, and AFGO may submit one nominee in each
   category.
      4.1.1. An endorsement letter signed by the Director/Commander must accompany
      nominations and include the name, email address, fax, and duty phone of the unit POC.
      4.1.2. Nomination write ups must be security reviewed by the AFISRA Security Office
      in person or via JWICS prior to submitting packages to the CCF or A1. A Security
      Office (SO) review statement with the name, date, and phone number of the SO official
      must be included in the endorsement letter. Nomination packages received without
      proper security review will not be accepted.
   4.2. Military nominees will be emailed to the Headquarters First Sergeant
   4.3. Civilian nominees will be emailed to HQ AFISRA/A1 Workflow.
   4.4. Accomplishments must have occurred during the nominated quarter or calendar year.
   4.5. Quarterly award winners are not eligible to compete during consecutive quarters of the
   same calendar year.
   4.6. Use an AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award (latest version), front page only.
      4.6.1. Nominations for civilian and military categories are restricted to 13 single-spaced
      lines (including the headings) for quarterly competition and 30 single-spaced lines
      (including headings) for annual competition.
      4.6.2. Bullet format will be used.
      4.6.3. The following headings are mandatory and will be used on military nominations:
          4.6.3.1. LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY:
          Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the member
          performed assigned primary and additional duties. Define the scope and level of
          responsibilities and the impact on the mission and unit. Include any new initiatives or
          techniques developed by the member that positively impacted the unit/mission.
          Include results of Air Force, MAJCOM, Numbered Air Force-Level inspections
          and/or evaluations. Include awards received (e.g., Lance P. Sijan, and so forth).
          4.6.3.2. Significant Self-Improvement: Show how the member developed/improved
          skills related to primary duties (e.g., formal training, career development, course
          enrollment or completion, on-the-job training, certification, off-duty education related
          to primary duties, and so forth). Include completion of any Professional Military
          Education (PME) as well as awards earned during in-residence attendance. Include
 4                                                      AFISRAI36-2805 26 OCTOBER 2012


            any off-duty education not directly related to primary duties (e.g., class, course,
            degree, enrollment/completion and grade point average). Cite any other relevant
            training or activity that significantly enhanced the member's value as a military
            citizen.
            4.6.3.3. BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT: Define the scope and impact
            of the member's positive leadership and involvement in both the military and civilian
            community. Include leadership, membership, or participation in First Sergeant
            Council, Unit Advisory Councils, Professional Military Organizations, associations,
            and events (e.g., President of Top 3, Enlisted Dining-Out Committee, Member of Air
            Force Sergeants Association, Air Force Association, Sunday School Teacher, and so
            forth).
        4.6.4. The following headings are mandatory and will be used on civilian nominations:
            4.6.4.1. JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY: Describe how well the
            nominee performed assigned primary and additional duties. Define the scope and
            level of responsibilities and the impact on the mission and unit. Also, identify
            recognition of duty performance earned at the unit, installation, command, Air Force
            or DoD levels.
            4.6.4.2. LEADERSHIP        QUALITIES:            Describe    significant  leadership
            accomplishments. Include the development of new techniques contributing to
            increased mission effectiveness. These qualities could be evidenced by supervisors or
            by non-supervisory personnel through management of a project associated with their
            primary duties.
            4.6.4.3. OTHER ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Recognize contributions to the mission
            such as volunteering for on-duty projects in other work centers or units. Include any
            significant self-improvement through off-duty education, training or achievements in
            professional associations directly related to official duties. Include base or
            community involvement.
        4.6.5. A legend will be used at the bottom of the AF IMT 1206 for all acronyms used.
        4.6.6. Signatures on the AF IMT 1206 are not required.
5. Selection Board Composition and Procedures.
     5.1. Board Composition. Board composition will be made up of FGOs, SNCOs, NCOs and
     civilians assigned to HQ AFISRA. A minimum of three members constitute a board as listed
     below; additional voting panel members are authorized. The board president is the senior
     panel member.
        5.1.1. The First Sergeant will populate the boards through DS Workflow tasking to
        ensure equal representation on the panels.
        5.1.2. FGO: Three O-6s or GG-15s.
        5.1.3. CGO: Three O-4 or above.
        5.1.4. SNCO: Three E-9 or E-9 Selects.
        5.1.5. NCO: One E-8 or Select and two E-7s.
AFISRAI36-2805 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                                5


      5.1.6. JEM: One E-7 or equivalent, and two E-5/E-6.
      5.1.7. First Sgt of the Year: The HQ AFISRA/CCC will serve as the board president.
      The board will consist of at least two additional Chief Master Sergeants or Chief Master
      Sergeant Selects.
      5.1.8. Civilian Supervisor. Three O-6s or GG-15s. Civilians must be in supervisory
      positions and equal to or higher grades than the nominees
      5.1.9. Civilian Non-Supervisory Categories. Three O-5s or GG-14s.
   5.2. Conduct of the board. All boards will be records only unless directed otherwise. The
   First Sergeant will determine the method of scoring packages and will be sent out to units
   prior to the board and board members along with packages.
      5.2.1. Award Winner Selection. Panel members and board president scores will be
      counted to determine the winner.
      5.2.2. In the event of a tie, panel members will re-score the tied nominees to determine a
      winner. If after re-scoring the nominees are still tied, the President will determine the
      winner.
      5.2.3. The HQ AFISRA First Sergeant will approve board selections, consolidate all
      board results and notify the AFISRA/CCC of the winners.
   5.3. Recognition.
      5.3.1. The DS will fund the purchase of annual and quarterly awards. The First Sergeant
      is responsible for purchasing the awards.
      5.3.2. The Commander, HQ AFISRA, or the appointed representative, will present
      quarterly and annual awards at a recognition ceremony.
      5.3.3. HQ AFISRA Quarterly Award winners will receive a one-day pass (military) and
      eight hours time off award (civilian). HQ AFISRA Annual Award winners will receive a
      three-day pass (military) and 24 hours paid leave (civilian). Individual directors are
      responsible for submitting time off awards via the human resource liaison.
   5.4. HQ AFISRA quarterly and annual award winners will go forward and compete at the
   Joint-Base Lackland competition. In the event the Headquarters winner is from a unit
   located outside of Lackland AFB, the Staff winner will compete locally.
   5.5. HQ AFISRA military annual winners will be the headquarters nominee to compete in
   the AFISRA annual award program. Each enlisted military annual winner must sign a
   statement of intent agreeing that if selected as an AFISRA nominee, they will obtain the
   required retention to compete at Air Force level. All MAJCOM nominees must have
   sufficient retention to serve on the Air Force Association (AFA) Enlisted Advisory Council
   for a 12-month period commencing the month of their induction (September), if selected as
   one of the 12 Outstanding Airman of the Year (OAY).
6. The Quiet Professional Award.
   6.1. The Quiet Professional award is a tool for directors and commanders to recognize their
   personnel (both military and civil service) for exceptional duty performance, initiative or
   leadership.
 6                                                      AFISRAI36-2805 26 OCTOBER 2012


     6.2. Award criteria. Military and civilian members can be recognized for their achievements
     in five areas of concentration: accomplishment of agency goals or objectives; demonstrated
     exceptional leadership; improved work environment; improved morale; or delivered
     outstanding customer service.
     6.3. Nomination Requirements. Any person within the HQ AFISRA can nominate a military
     or civilian professional for this award by completing and signing AFISRA Form 23, The
     Quiet Professional Award.
6.4. Nomination Procedures. AFISRA employees who nominate an individual for this award
by initiating the AFISRA Form 23 forwarding it to the Directorate’s Executive Officer or the
Headquarters First Sergeant. The AFISRA Form 23 is forwarded to the appropriate 2-Letter
Director or Commander for final approval. Approved awards are forwarded to the First Sergeant
for processing.
     6.5. Recognition. The recipient will receive a Certificate of Recognition signed by the
     AFISRA Commander. Military personnel will be authorized a one-day pass and civilians
     will be awarded an eight hour time off award. Individual directors are responsible for
     submitting time off awards via the human resource liaison.




                                             ROBERT P. OTTO, Maj Gen, USAF
                                             Commander
AFISRAI36-2805 26 OCTOBER 2012                                          7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
AFISRA Form 23, The Quiet Professional Award
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFA—Air Force Association
AFCO—Air Force Cryptologic Office
AFGO—Air Force Geospatial Intelligence Office
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFRES—Air Force Reserve
CGO—Company Grade Officer
FGO—Field Grade Officer
IAW—In Accordance With
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
JEM—Junior Enlisted Member
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
OAY—Outstanding Airman of the Year
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PME—Professional Military Education
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SDI—Special Duty Indicator
SNCO—Senior Non-Commissioned Officer
SO—Security Office
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
