BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE AIR INTELLIGENCE,
AIR INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE                   SURVEILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE
AND RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                AGENCY INSTRUCTION 33-203

                                                                                  25 MAY 2011

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                      THE AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE,
                                                SURVEILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE
                                                    AGENCY TEMPEST AND EMISSION
                                                                SECURITY PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A6SE                                                      Certified by: AFISRA/A6
                                                                             (Col Eric J. Pierce)
Supersedes:   AFISRAI 33-203, 18 March                                                Pages: 34
              2008


This instruction implements AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, AFSSI 7700
Emission Security (EMSEC), and the national TEMPEST program for Sensitive Compartmented
Information Facilities (SCIF) in the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
Agency (AFISRA). It establishes procedures to control compromising emanations (CE) within
AFISRA facilities. It brings AFISRA into compliance with national and Department of Defense
(DoD) TEMPEST policies. It requires compliance with Committee on National Security
Systems Policy (CNSSP) 300, National Policy on Control of Compromising Emanations, and
Department of Defense Directive 5200.19, Control of Compromising Emanations (C). This
TEMPEST instruction and criteria apply to AFISRA and AFISRA subordinate units worldwide,
which operate, maintain, and install systems and equipment used to process National Security
Information (NSI). This instruction also applies to AFISRA-gained Air National Guard and Air
Force Reserve units and Individual Mobilization Augmentees. This instruction also applies to all
AFISRA-collocated units/organizations on Security Hill, Lackland AFB and Port San Antonio
and their respective buildings and facilities. This instruction does not apply to AFISRA
activities whose non-AFISRA hosts provide TEMPEST or technical security. Contact the host's
security officials for guidance. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional's chain of command to AFISRA/A6SE, 102 Hall Blvd, Ste 231, San Antonio TX
78243-7099. Maintain records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in this
 2                                                                                            AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


directory in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of
them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the guidelines for TEMPEST and EMSEC for the Air Force Intelligence,
Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency. The changes reflect the replacement of DCID 6/9 by
ICD 705 and an increased emphasis on the TEMPEST accreditation process. It also includes
new information on smart card readers, digital senders and cryptographic equipment. A
definition of RED processor has been added as well as a reference to the NSA cable installation
standards. Dual monitor separation requirements have also been clarified. The mandatory
TEMPEST CBT requirement has been removed.

Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                      4
       1.1.   The AFISRA TEMPEST Program. ........................................................................                          4
       1.2.   The AFISRA TEMPEST Philosophy. ...................................................................                            4

Chapter 2—HEADQUARTERS FUNCTIONS                                                                                                            7
       2.1.   Authority. ...............................................................................................................    7
       2.2.   Directorate of Communications (AFISRA/A6). ....................................................                               7
       2.3.   Directorate of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AFISRA/A4/7). ......                                             7
       2.4.   The Directorate of Plans, Requirements and Programs (AFISRA/A5/8/9). ..........                                               8
       2.5.   The Security Office (AFISRA/SO): .......................................................................                      8
       2.6.   HQ AFISRA and HQ AFISRA-Collocated Units. .................................................                                   8
       2.7.   Engineering and Installation. .................................................................................               8
       2.8.   Maintenance. ..........................................................................................................       9
       2.9.   Acquisition. ............................................................................................................     9

Chapter 3—UNIT RESPONSIBILITY                                                                                                              10
       3.1.   AFISRA Units. .......................................................................................................        10
       3.2.   Unit TEMPEST Officer. ........................................................................................               10

Chapter 4—PERSONNEL                                                                                                                        12
       4.1.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................        12
       4.2.   When Using Electronic Equipment. ......................................................................                      12
       4.3.   TEMPEST Training Requirement. ........................................................................                       12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             13
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                 3


Attachment 2—INSTALLATION CRITERIA                        17

Attachment 3—VIDEO EQUIPMENT                              22

Attachment 4—SECURE VOICE EQUIPMENT                       23

Attachment 5—ADMINISTRATIVE TELEPHONES                    24

Attachment 6—ENTERTAINMENT AND PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEMS     25

Attachment 7—FIBER OPTIC CABLE                            26

Attachment 8—TACTICAL EQUIPMENT                           28

Attachment 9—FACILITY SHIELDING AND SHIELDED ENCLOSURES   29

Attachment 10—GROUND MAINTENANCE                          30

Attachment 11—WIRELESS DEVICES                            31

Attachment 12—OFFICE EQUIPMENT                            33
 4                                                                AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011



                                             Chapter 1

                                        INTRODUCTION

1.1. The AFISRA TEMPEST Program. This instruction describes the AFISRA TEMPEST
program related to the Air Force, the National Security Agency, Central Security Service
(NSA/CSS) and the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). AFISRA, as a Field Operating Agency
(FOA) of Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (HAF/A2) and a
Service Cryptologic Component of the NSA/CSS, adopts applicable portions of DoD, USAF,
DIA, and NSA/CSS documents to conduct the AFISRA TEMPEST program. The national
policy is contained in Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 705, Sensitive Compartmented
Information Facilities (SCIF), the Committee on National Security Systems Policy (CNSSP)
300, National Policy on Control of Compromising Emanations, and the Committee on National
Security Systems Instruction (CNSSI) 7000, TEMPEST Countermeasures for Facilities (C). The
DoD TEMPEST program is contained in DoD Directive 5200.19, Control of Compromising
Emanations (C), and DoD 51 05.21-M-I, Sensitive Compartmented Information Administrative
Security Manual. The Air Force policy is contained in AFSSI 7700, Emission Security. Portions
of these documents are paraphrased or referenced throughout this document. Note: Collateral
only areas or facilities of AFISRA units must meet the requirements of the AF EMSEC program.
See AFSSI 7700, paragraph 15, for guidance on AFISRA Special Category (SPECAT) facilities.
1.2. The AFISRA TEMPEST Philosophy.
     1.2.1. Risk Management. TEMPEST countermeasures will be employed in proportion to the
     threat of exploitation. Countermeasure assessments will be performed or validated by a
     Certified TEMPEST Technical Authority (CTTA) to determine what protection, if any, is
     required. Expenditure of funds over normal installation costs to meet TEMPEST
     requirements must be approved by a CTTA.
     1.2.2. Perimeter Protection. The prime objective of the TEMPEST program at all levels,
     national to AFISRA and below, is to contain compromising emanations within the
     inspectable space. Compromising emanations are unintentional signals that, if intercepted
     and analyzed, would disclose the national security information transferred, received, handled,
     or otherwise processed by information-processing equipment. These emanations or
     TEMPEST signals are a function of the TEMPEST characteristics of the information
     processing equipment, the way the equipment is installed, the electromagnetic and physical
     characteristics of the facility, and the geographical environment where the facility is located.
     As long as these signals are contained within the inspectable space boundary, the TEMPEST
     risk is deemed acceptable.
     1.2.3. Inspectable Space (IS). IS is defined as the three-dimensional space surrounding
     equipment that processes classified and/or sensitive information within which TEMPEST
     exploitation is not considered practical or the legal authority to identify and/or remove a
     potential exploitation exists and is exercised. The IS may be the base perimeter, a fence
     around the facility, a building, or a room in a building. The means of escape may be spatial
     radiation, or conduction through phone lines, power lines, a transmitter, etc. As long as all
     means of escape are controlled or protected at the perimeter, the area is TEMPEST secure.
     The IS is determined by the SCIF Accreditation Authority's CTTA or the Air Force CTTA
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                        5


  for collateral areas. The IS for most military installations in the continental United States is
  the base perimeter.
  1.2.4. TEMPEST Zone Testing. In cases of very limited IS or uncertainty exists concerning
  the amount of protection needed, TEMPEST zone testing could provide some assurance.
  The TEMPEST Zone Concept considers not only the free space attenuation inherent to the
  facility's IS, but also the attenuation provided by the physical building structure. This
  approach requires radio frequency (RF) attenuation measurements be performed to
  characterize each facility. Subsequent interpretation of the attenuation data according to
  prescribed criteria allows the partitioning of the facility by zone designations. Once a facility
  has been "zoned," the zone assignments may be used in conjunction with TEMPEST test data
  to assure existing equipment and systems are appropriately located and future equipment and
  systems are designed and built to appropriate TEMPEST requirements. This concept has
  proven to be extremely effective. Not only have increased flexibility and substantial savings
  been realized, but most importantly, field testing has shown that facilities using the zoning
  concept have become increasingly more "TEMPEST Secure." However, zoning only
  accounts for spatial radiation. Conducted emanations must be considered separately.
  1.2.5. Good Engineering and Installation Practices. Although the term is imprecise, these
  installation practices are the basis of a quality RED/BLACK installation. Good engineering
  and installation practices are those which provide neat, clean, and orderly installations;
  protect cabling from inadvertent physical damage; provide a degree of cable accountability;
  and enhance the electronic security of AFISRA activities. These practices reduce
  electromagnetic interference, improve operational capability, facilitate ease of operation and
  maintenance and improve the overall appearance of installed systems.
  1.2.6. Separation Distances in National Policy. The separation distances in national policy
  (NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-95A) when used in a SCIF are based on RED signal
  wirelines having one overall shield and are to be used as a minimum. The TEMPEST
  accreditation of a SCIF identifies the specific RED/BLACK separation requirements. If a
  separation is not specified, it is AFISRA's policy to maintain a minimum of 20 inches or 50
  centimeters between any RED processor and BLACK equipment or BLACK signal wirelines
  that exit the inspectable space or are connected to an RF transmitter to ensure there is not any
  physical contact or mutual conduction that would cause a hazard. Contact the AFISRA
  CTTA to obtain a TEMPEST accreditation or if the minimum separation distances cannot be
  achieved.
  1.2.7. Recommended Method of Signal Distribution. Fiber optic cable is the recommended
  method of signal distribution in AFISRA SCIFs. It is AFISRA policy to migrate circuits to
  fiber optic cable whenever feasible. This is based on TEMPEST considerations and future
  requirements for greater data rates requiring larger bandwidths.
  1.2.8. Certification and Accreditation. An important part of Information Assurance (IA) is
  certification and accreditation (C&A). The C&A process addresses vulnerabilities and
  threats with the goal of reducing the risk to an acceptable level. TEMPEST/EMSEC is a
  critical part of the C&A process in both the collateral and SCI environments.
  TEMPEST/EMSEC is essential in the accreditation of information systems and SCI facilities.
     1.2.8.1. For SCI facilities, the accrediting authority (typically DIA or NSA) will provide
     the organization a TEMPEST accreditation message or letter identifying their inspectable
6                                                         AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


    space, TEMPEST countermeasure requirements and the applicable RED/BLACK
    separation recommendation of NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 or 2-95A. Information on
    the       DIA      accreditation    process        can       be     found        at:
    www.dia.ic.govlhomepage/dalsecurity/fieldltempest, or calling DIA/DAC-2B at (703)
    907-1299. Information on the NSA process is available by calling NSA/I7213 at (410)
    854-6611.
    1.2.8.2. For collateral areas, AFSSI 7700, Attachment 2 outlines the EMSEC
    Accreditation Process.
    1.2.8.3. The TEMPEST/EMSEC accreditation document is the authoritative document
    identifying the requirements to contain compromising emanations within the inspectable
    space and is one of the three accreditations required for a SCIF to become operational
    with the other two being physical and information system accreditations.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                     7


                                          Chapter 2

                             HEADQUARTERS FUNCTIONS

2.1. Authority. The Commander, AFISRA (AFISRA/CC) retains the authority to accept the
TEMPEST risk for all AFISRA facilities. The risk must be accepted in writing and submitted to
the appropriate SCIF CTTA.
2.2. Directorate of Communications (AFISRA/A6).
   2.2.1. The Enterprise Security Branch (AFISRA/A6SE):
       2.2.1.1. Manages the TEMPEST program for the AFISRA.
       2.2.1.2. Interprets national and Air Force policy and guidance for the AFISRA.
       2.2.1.3. Provides technical guidance for installing AFISRA mission and mission support
       equipment.
       2.2.1.4. Provides guidance to the Directorate of Plans, Requirements and Programs
       (AFISRA/A5/8/9), Directorate of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
       (AFISRA/A4/7), the 690th Network Support Group (690 NSG), and the 668th
       Alterations and Installation Squadron (668 ALIS) on TEMPEST requirements for new
       system acquisitions, installations, and upgrades.
       2.2.1.5. Evaluates 668 ALIS projects, contractor installations, and in-house projects for
       AFISRA and AFISRA units to ensure they meet AFISRA TEMPEST criteria.
       2.2.1.6. Sends recommendations for the acceptance of the risk of a TEMPEST hazard
       through the AFISRA/A6 to the AFISRA Commander (AFISRA/CC) for approval or
       disapproval based on implementation of CNSSI 7000 and the TEMPEST Accreditation,
       and includes recommendations for corrective action.
       2.2.1.7. Performs program reviews of AFISRA units and collocated units, conducts
       TEMPEST workshops to train new TEMPEST officers and informs current officers of
       the latest changes in TEMPEST policies and practices.
       2.2.1.8. Reviews and coordinates on System Security Plans and System Security
       Authorization Agreements to ensure TEMPEST compliance.
   2.2.2. The HQ AFISRA TEMPEST Program Manager (AFISRA/A6SE) develops,
   implements, and conducts annual TEMPEST program reviews for AFISRA units and those
   Lackland AFB and Port San Antonio collocated units identified in paragraph 2.6. Other San
   Antonio area facilities may also fall under this program as units are relocated. Program
   reviews will be scheduled and conducted throughout the calendar year. TEMPEST
   deficiencies are identified, documented and monitored for correction. Periodic updates as
   defined in the program review report will be submitted to AFISRA/A6SE until all
   discrepancies are closed. AFISRAICL 90-203 is used for these program reviews.
   2.2.3. Recommends to SAF/A6N an individual to serve as the AFISRA Certified TEMPEST
   Technical Authority.
2.3. Directorate of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AFISRA/A4/7).
 8                                                            AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


     2.3.1. Logistics Readiness Division (AFISRA/A4R):
        2.3.1.1. Coordinates with AFISRA/A6 on all planning efforts for new hardware
        capabilities to ensure TEMPEST requirements are identified and adequately addressed in
        the acquisition logistics support planning process.
        2.3.1.2. Coordinates with AFISRA/A6 on all support agreements where TEMPEST is
        involved.
     2.3.2. The Civil Engineering Division (AFISRA/A7C) coordinates with AFISRA/A6 on all
     new systems, facility upgrade requirements, designs and new construction that impact on
     TEMPEST criteria.
2.4. The Directorate of Plans, Requirements and Programs (AFISRA/A5/8/9).
     2.4.1. Ensures all AFISRA policies, directives, and projects consider potential TEMPEST
     requirements through coordination with AFISRA/A6.
     2.4.2. Coordinates with AFISRA/A6 on support agreements where TEMPEST is involved.
2.5. The Security Office (AFISRA/SO):
     2.5.1. Coordinates with AFISRA/A6 on all TEMPEST accreditation matters, technical
     security reports, and surveys for AFISRA-sponsored SCIFs.
     2.5.2. Coordinates with AFISRAlA6 on physical security matters as they pertain to
     TEMPEST within the criteria of ICD 705, DoD 5105.2l-M-l and other SCIF security
     documents.
2.6. HQ AFISRA and HQ AFISRA-Collocated Units. For consistency across the Lackland
AFB and Port San Antonio area including shared spaces, HQ AFISRA directorates and major
staff offices and non-AFISRA units collocated on Security Hill, Lackland AFB and Port San
Antonio, have the following responsibilities for their respective buildings and facilities:
     2.6.1. Each organization appoints a primary and alternate TEMPEST officer to assist the
     AFISRA TEMPEST Program Manager. These TEMPEST officers must submit an
     appointment letter to AFISRA/A6 which includes their names, ranks, office symbols,
     building and room numbers, telephone numbers, NIPRNet and classified (JWICS or
     SIPRNET) e-mail addresses.
     2.6.2. Organizational TEMPEST officers assist the AFISRA TEMPEST Program Manager
     in their annual TEMPEST program review and are responsible for initiating corrective
     actions on any documented discrepancies.
     2.6.3. Each agency follows the TEMPEST security program developed and implemented by
     AFISRA/A6. Organizational TEMPEST officers are responsible for coordinating with
     AFISRA/A6 on any equipment installations or facility modifications that may affect
     TEMPEST security.
     2.6.4. Individual project offices coordinate TEMPEST requirements directly with the
     AFISRA CTTA in AFISRA/A6 for mission systems.
2.7. Engineering and Installation. The 668 ALIS ensures that all 668 ALIS-installed mission
and information systems at AFISRA facilities comply with this TEMPEST instruction.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                               9


2.8. Maintenance. The 690 ISS ensures that all mandatory TEMPEST modifications to
telecommunication and COMSEC equipment are performed, TEMPEST corrective actions are
implemented as required, all telecommunications programming documents encompass
TEMPEST criteria as appropriate, and TEMPEST policies and procedures are incorporated into
COMSEC annexes to plans.
2.9. Acquisition. AFISRA acquisition organizations ensure TEMPEST considerations are
addressed and included in the procurement and life cycle support phases for all hardware
capabilities scheduled for deployment to AF ISR activities.
 10                                                            AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


                                          Chapter 3

                                   UNIT RESPONSIBILITY

3.1. AFISRA Units. The AFISRA unit commander will appoint in writing a TEMPEST officer
and forward a copy of the appointment letter to AFISRA/A6SE. TEMPEST officers must be
appointed at all organizational levels necessary to exercise span of control related to size and
geographic dispersion. In some cases, a higher headquarters collocated with a subordinate unit
may assume TEMPEST responsibilities. The appointment letter will include their names, ranks,
office symbols, building and room numbers, telephone numbers, NIPRNet and classified (JWICS
or SIPRNET) e-mail addresses. Submit updates when changes are required. Recommend that
the appointed unit TEMPEST officer is from a technical career field and has a working
knowledge of electronics. TEMPEST officers can be military, civilian or contractor, but need to
have sufficient rank or authority to enforce the requirements of the program.
3.2. Unit TEMPEST Officer.
   3.2.1. Serves as the focal point for all unit TEMPEST matters including the TEMPEST
   accreditation and reaccreditation of SCIFs.
   3.2.2. Maintains a reference library of TEMPEST publications. As a minimum, the library
   must contain NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-95A, (U//FOUO) RED/BLACK Installation
   Guidance, AFSSI 7700, Emission Security (EMSEC), AFISRAI 33-203, and AFISRAICL
   90-203. For SCIFs include DoD 5105.21-M-1 and ICD 705. The library can be maintained
   electronically. The TEMPEST Accreditation message or letter must be in the reference
   library or readily available to the unit TEMPEST officer.
   3.2.3. Attends Air Education and Training Command (AETC) course L30ARXXXXX-
   OT3A, TEMPEST Fundamentals or the TEMPEST workshop conducted by the AFISRA
   CTTA.
   3.2.4. Periodically reviews TEMPEST documents and stays current with TEMPEST issues
   applicable to the unit's TEMPEST security. Information on the current AF EMSEC program
   is available at https://private.afnic.af.mil/intra/emsec/. Information on the AFISRA
   TEMPEST program can be found at: https://www.intelink.gov/wiki/AF_ISR_ Agency_
   Enterprise Security/TEMPEST.
   3.2.5. Is knowledgeable of all unit programs, including self-help, for installing or removing
   equipment or systems which process national security information electrically and ensures
   TEMPEST integrity is maintained.
   3.2.6. Requests approval for the following items from the SCIF accreditation authority
   through their appropriate security office:
       3.2.6.1. RF transmitters.
       3.2.6.2. Commercial television systems.
       3.2.6.3. Audio systems (with lines that exit the SCIF boundary).
       3.2.6.4. Protected Distribution Systems (PDS).
       3.2.6.5. Multilevel systems.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                     11


Note: Use DoD 5105.21-M-1, Appendix J, TEMPEST Addendum, if a DIA SCIF. Use NSA
TEMPEST Accreditation Worksheet, if an NSA SCIF.
   3.2.7. Inspects new or modified equipment, systems or facility installations, and ensures
   discrepancies are corrected before activation. Signs the AF Form 1261, Command, Control,
   Communications and Computer Systems Acceptance Certificate, and AF Form 332, Base
   Civil Engineer Work Request, as applicable.
   3.2.8. Annually in September performs a TEMPEST program review of local facilities using
   AFISRAICL 90-203 modified to fit their TEMPEST Accreditation and any other local
   requirements. Sends a copy of the completed checklists to AFISRA/A6SE by 31 October
   and maintains a local file copy until superseded by the next annual program review. Per
   paragraph 2.2.2, units in the local San Antonio area will be inspected annually by the
   AFISRA TEMPEST Program Manager. These local program reviews are performed
   throughout the year instead of in September.
   3.2.9. Maintains records of inspections that identify TEMPEST discrepancies and corrective
   actions in unit files until all discrepancies are corrected. Ensures actions for correcting
   TEMPEST discrepancies are reported quarterly to AFISRA/A6SE.
   3.2.10. Provides information and a copy of the inspection results to the AFISRA CTTA if
   host base officials or other accreditation authorities inspect the AFISRA unit.
   3.2.11. Monitors and guides local self-help activities for TEMPEST compliance.
   3.2.12. Guides and assists local staff elements on TEMPEST matters and requests assistance
   from the AFISRA CTT A as required.
   3.2.13. Maintains unit awareness of the TEMPEST program requirements through unit
   training programs, commander's calls, visual aids, etc.
   3.2.14. Submits TEMPEST        testing requirements    or   requests   for   evaluations   to
   AFISRA/A6SE as required.
 12                                                              AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


                                            Chapter 4

                                          PERSONNEL

4.1. Documentation. All AFISRA personnel who prepare or process requirements documents,
operations plans, policies, directives, self-help installation projects, and any other document that
proposes processing classified information electronically will ensure TEMPEST is considered.
This requirement also applies to engineering proposals that result in operating, procuring,
maintaining, or installing AFISRA equipment and systems, which process national security
information. Contact AFISRAlA6SE for appropriate TEMPEST criteria and a standard
statement.
4.2. When Using Electronic Equipment. All personnel will fully comply with TEMPEST
policies and operating procedures when using electronic equipment that processes national
security information.
4.3. TEMPEST Training Requirement. The AFISRA CTTA will periodically provide
TEMPEST user awareness training material to unit TEMPEST officers to ensure users of
classified information systems understand the TEMPEST program and their responsibilities.
Unit TEMPEST officers will ensure material is disseminated to unit personnel and report
completion to the AFISRA CTTA during annual program reviews.




                                              BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Commander
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                  13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, 1 October 1998
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, 19 April 2007
AFMAN 33-214 Volume 1, (S) Emission Security Assessment (U), 15 September 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFSSI 7700, Emission Security (EMSEC), 24 October 2007
AFSSI 7702, Emission Security Countermeasures Review, 30 January 2008
AFSSI 7703, Communications Security: Protected Distribution Systems (PDS), 26 August 2008
AFISRAICL 90-203, Management of TEMPEST Inspections in AF Intelligence, Surveillance
and Reconnaissance Agency Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities, TBD
CNSSP 300, National Policy on Control of Compromising Emanations, April 2004
CNSSI 7000, (U) TEMPEST Countermeasures for Facilities (C), May 2004
DCID 6/9, Physical Security Standards for Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities, 18
November 2002
ICD 705, Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities, 26 May 2010
Joint DoDIIS/Cryptologic SCI Information Systems Security Standards, 1 January 2006
DoDD 5200.19, Control of Compromising Emanations (C), 16 May 1995
DoD 5105.21-M-1, Sensitive Compartmented Information Administrative Security Manual,
August 1998
NSA/CSS Policy 6-15, (U) NSA/CSS Secure Telephone System (C), 31 March 2006
NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-95A, (U//FOUO) RED/BLACK Installation Guidance, 3
February 2000
NTISSI No. 4002, (U) Classification Guide for COMSEC Information (S), 5 June 1986
NSTISSI No. 7001, (U) NONSTOP Countermeasures (S), 15 June 1994
NSTISSI No. 7002, (U) TEMPEST Glossary (S), 17 March 1995
NSTISSI No. 7003, Protected Distribution System (PDS), 13 December 1996
TSG 1, Introduction to Telephone Security, March 1990
TSG-2, TSG Guidelines for Computerized Telephone Systems, March 1990
TSG 6, TSG Approved Equipment, June 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineering Work Request
 14                                                      AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1261, Command, Control, Communications and Computer Systems Acceptance
Certificate

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
C&A—Certification and Accreditation
CE—Compromising Emanations
CNSSP—Committee on National Security Systems Policy
CNSS—Committee on National Security Systems
COMSEC—Communications Security
CSA—Cognizant Security Authority
CTTA—Certified TEMPEST Technical Authority
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
EMSEC—Emission Security
IS—Inspectable Space
ISD—Inspectable Space Determination
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Information Communications System
KVM—Keyboard, Video and Mouse
MAJCOM—Major Command
NIPRNet—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NSI—National Security Information
NSA—National Security Agency
NTSWG—National Telecommunications Security Working Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDS—Protected Distribution System
RF—Radio Frequency
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                       15


SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SCIF—Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility
SIPRNet—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SPECAT—Special Category
TAD—Telephone Answering Device
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Certified TEMPEST Technical Authority (CTTA). An experienced, technically qualified
government employee who has met established certification requirements according to
National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Committee—
approved criteria and has been appointed by a United States Government department or agency
to fulfill CTTA responsibilities.
Cognizant Security Authority (CSA)—. The single principal designated by the Senior Official
of the Intelligence Community to serve as the responsible official for all aspects of security
program management with respect to the protection of intelligence sources and methods.
Collateral Information—. All national security information classified under the provisions of
an executive order, for which special community systems of compartments (e.g., Sensitive
Compartmented Information) are not formally established.
Compromising Emanation. Unintentional signal that, if intercepted and analyzed, would
disclose the information transferred, received, handled, or otherwise processed by any
telecommunications or automated information—systems equipment.
Countermeasures—. 1) That form of military science that by the employment of devices and/or
techniques, has as its objective the impairment of the operational effectiveness of enemy activity;
2) any action, device, procedure, technique, or other means that reduce the vulnerability of an
automated information system.
Countermeasures Review. A technical evaluation of a facility that identifies the inspectable
space, the required countermeasures, and the most cost—effective way to apply required
countermeasures.
Emanation—. Unintended signals or noise appearing external to equipment.
Emission Security (EMSEC). The protection resulting from all measures taken to deny
unauthorized persons information of value that might be derived from communications
systems and cryptographic equipment intercepts and the interception and analysis of
compromising emanations from cryptographic—equipment, information systems, and
telecommunications systems.
Facility. 1) A real—property entity consisting of one or more of the following: a building; a
structure; a utility system, pavement, and underlying land; 2) a physically definable area, which
contains classified national security information-processing equipment.
 16                                                            AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


Hazard—. A measure of both the existence and the compromising nature of an emanation.
Hazards exist if, and only if, compromising emanations are detectable beyond the inspectable
space.
Information Systems—. The organized collection, processing, transmission, and dissemination
of information, in accordance with defined procedures, whether automated or manual. In
information warfare, this includes the entire infrastructure, organization, and components that
collect, process, store, transmit, display, disseminate, and act on information.
Inspectable Space. The three—dimensional space surrounding equipment that processes
classified national security or sensitive information within which TEMPEST exploitation is not
considered practical or where legal authority to identify or remove a potential TEMPEST
exploitation exists and is exercised.
Labeling—. Consists of a tag identifying the signal on the cable.
Marking—. Consists of a color band or similar identifier on a cable to identify the level of
classification of the information on the cable.
National Security Information—. Information that has been determined, pursuant to Executive
Order 12958, Classified National Security Information, April 17, 1995, or any predecessor order
to require protection against unauthorized disclosure, and is so designated.
RED and BLACK Concept—. Separation of electrical and electronic circuits, components,
equipment, and systems that handle classified plain text (RED) information in electrical signal
form from those, which handle unclassified or encrypted (BLACK) information in the same
form.
RED Equipment (Processor)—. A term applied to equipment that processes unencrypted
national security information that requires protection during electrical/electronic processing.
RED processors include monitors, KVM switches, routers, switches, computers and other
devices that process RED signals electronically.
TEMPEST—. A short name referring to the investigation, study, and control of compromising
emanations from telecommunications and automated information processing systems.
TEMPEST—Certified Equipment. Systems or equipment that were certified within the
requirements of the effective edition of NSTISSAM TEMPEST/I-92, Level I, or TEMPEST
specifications as determined by the department or agency concerned.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                      17


                                         Attachment 2
                                INSTALLATION CRITERIA

A2.1. Introduction. For ease of implementation of TEMPEST separation and other installation
criteria, consideration should be given to creating RED and BLACK areas in mission, office and
cubicle environments.
   A2.1.1. Scope. The installation criteria apply to all AFISRA activities and components
   including telecommunications centers, which support these activities. At AFISRA activities
   where the unit is a tenant to another organization, enforce these guidelines to the fullest
   extent the host base allows. Be aware that criteria can be different between collateral and SCI
   areas.
   A2.1.2. Purpose. This guidance is intended to promulgate, clarify, and augment national
   and United States Air Force installation guidance. When this document and NSTISSAM
   TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A or AFSSI 7702 conflict, contact AFISRA/A6SE for guidance.
   A2.1.3. Background.
       A2.1.3.1. In the past, TEMPEST criteria dictated ferrous conduit and ducts, which
       enclosed both RED and BLACK cabling. Accordingly, operations floors and computer
       centers were a maze of special plumbing, which became an installer's nightmare.
       A2.1.3.2. AFISRA could not fully implement the above guidelines because of the nature
       of our large mission areas. In theory, all of the system wiring from the receiver outputs,
       through all processors, recording and printing devices would be RED and all antenna
       cables would be BLACK. One glance inside an AFISRA signals intelligence (SIGINT)
       facility would indicate the impracticality of separately enclosing the hundreds of antenna
       cables, in conduit or duct, throughout their many diverse routings. Accordingly, AFISRA
       established a policy that the (RF) multi-couplers, preamps, etc., satisfactorily acted as
       isolation devices between RED equipment and the BLACK antennas (these devices
       attenuate conducted emanations or stray radiation in the reverse mode, that is, escaping
       the antennas). Periodic TEMPEST testing of entire field stations over the years has
       confirmed this theory and no compromising emanations have been found beyond the
       operations building. Where raised floors are used, AFISRA implemented a requirement
       to place all RED cables under the raised floor, and to install all BLACK cables overhead
       to the extent possible.
       A2.1.3.3. With the change in the world's threat situation and the proliferation of
       commercial-off-the-shelf personal computers in the office environment and in AFISRA's
       large mission areas, previous guidance was no longer practical.
A2.1.3.4. TEMPEST standards such as NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and AFSSI 7702 have
changed to reflect a risk management based approach to security. TEMPEST requirements are
now based on criteria such as threat, amount of inspectable space, equipment type, physical
control, etc.
       A2.1.3.5. The current AFISRA TEMPEST policy is based on good engineering and
       installation practices and all wire line cabling having one overall nonferrous shield.
       Although the term "good engineering and installation practices" is nebulous, it is the
 18                                                              AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


       basis of documents such as NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-95A, MIL-HDBK-419A,
       and AFSSI 7702 which attempt to define and explain these practices. For clarity,
       consider good engineering and installation practices as those which provide neat, clean,
       and orderly installations; protect cabling from inadvertent physical damage; provide wire
       line accountability; and enhance the electronic security of AFISRA activities. These
       practices reduce electromagnetic interference, improve operational capability, facilitate
       ease of operation and maintenance and improve the overall appearance of installed
       systems.
       A2.1.3.6. Specific installation standards for an individual facility are identified in the
       TEMPEST accreditation and usually reference documents such as NSTISSAM
       TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A, DoD 5105.21-M-l and AFSSI 7702. Additional standards are
       included in this instruction.
       A2.1.3.7. In addition to TEMPEST standards, there may be other installation standards
       to consider such as the National Electrical Code, local construction standards, and in
       particular     NSA       installation    standards,     which      can     be    found at
       http://it.org.nsa.ic.gov/procmgmt/standards. Failure to follow these standards can
       result in significant delays, additional costs, and possible denial of services.
A2.2. Signal Distribution and Installation.
   A2.2.1. SCIF Cable Shielding Requirements. All RED metallic wire lines installed in a
   SCIF must have a minimum of one overall nonferrous shield (see NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-
   95, section 6). If a metallic cable does not have at least one overall nonferrous shield, install
   the signal lines in conduit or duct. The AFISRA CITA in coordination with the SCIF
   accreditation authority must approve exceptions to this.
       A2.2.1.1. Fiber Optic Cable. A fiber optic cable is the recommended method of signal
       distribution in AFISRA SCIFs. It is AFISRA guidance to migrate circuits to fiber optic
       cables when feasible. This guidance is based on TEMPEST considerations and future
       requirements for greater data rates requiring larger bandwidths. Fiber optic cable does
       not have an electromagnetic field that would cause a TEMPEST problem and does not
       require shielding or separation.
       A2.2.1.2. Analog Signal Cables. Cables equipped with foil-type shields that generally
       provide adequate shielding for analog signals.
       A2.2.1.3. Digital Signal Cables. Cables carrying digital data signals require a foil or
       braided shield that provides a minimum coverage of90 percent. Connect the shields to
       the RF-tight EMI (electromagnetic interference) connectors on each end so that 360-
       degree continuity between the cable shield and the connector is achieved.
A2.3. Distribution System Requirements.
   A2.3.1. Separate unclassified, collateral, and SCI-signal lines as outlined in NSTISSAM
   TEMPEST/2-95, paragraphs 4.4.2.2 and 6.8.
   A2.3.2. Terminate cable shields directly to the signal ground bus on the Intermediate
   Distribution Frame (IDF) and at the terminal block.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                      19


   A2.3.3. Termination of cable shields should comply with NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95,
   paragraph 4.4.1.2. Incorrect termination of cable shielding and pigtails may induce
   TEMPEST emanations.
   A2.3.4. Do not use cable shields as intentional current carrying conductors or as signal
   returns.
   A2.3.5. Remove all abandoned and unused cables and conduit unless specifically
   programmed for use at a later date.
   A2.3.6. Wireline separation distances for individual locations are found in the applicable
   TEMPEST Accreditation letter or message and NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95A, Section 3.
A2.4. Identification and Marking Requirements.
   A2.4.1. The primary purpose of marking cables is to prevent accidental cross connections
   that could lead to a security incident. Marking consists of a 1/2, to 1-inch wide color band
   around the cable. Use GREEN or BLACK for unclassified, RED for collateral classified and
   YELLOW for SCI. Different color cables or connectors may also be used for marking.
   Marking and labeling requirements also exist in other standards such as NSTISSAM
   TEMPEST/2-95, paragraphs 4.4.2.2 and 4.5. Other color schemes may be used as long as
   they are documented, standardized and well understood by the organization.
   A2.4.2. To standardize marking, control placement of signal lines and maintain an
   accountability of the signal lines between systems. Mark and label all signal lines at both
   ends unless both ends can easily be seen (i.e., short patch cables).
   A2.4.3. Exceptions.
      A2.4.3.1. The above policy applies to lines that run between different racks, hubs,
      switches, patch panels, etc. Lines contained within the racks do not require marking.
      A2.4.3.2. The LADYLOVE operations area will continue to follow the LADYLOVE site
      Installation Standard.
      A2.4.3.3. Other site exceptions are determined on a case-by-case basis and are to be
      approved by the AFISRA CTTA, AFISRA/A6SE.
   A2.4.4. Mark all cables entering or leaving systems or racks containing equipment of
   multiple classifications regardless of where these systems or racks are installed.
   A2.4.5. Mark the duct or conduit approximately every 25 feet and upon entering and exiting
   a wall or ceiling. Alternative methods of marking the conduit, such as paint, are acceptable if
   they clearly identify the highest classification level contained. Before implementing alternate
   schemes, consider the difficulty of changing the marking if the classification level changes
   and specific installation standards for some systems which may include marking
   requirements.
   A2.4.6. Equipment classification is determined by the level of information processed and the
   equipment is typically marked with Standard Form 700 series labels.
   A2.4.7. Typically, office and administrative workspaces have equipment and systems
   (telephone, fax, computer, etc) that are classified at various levels. Mark cables and ducts in
   the office and administrative areas.
 20                                                            AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


A2.5. Patch Panel Requirements. See NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, paragraph 4.5.2 and
Section 6. The requirement to prevent inadvertent cross patching can be met in one of several
ways.
   A2.5.1. Connectors.
       A2.5.1.1. Use different styles of connectors or cabling to distinguish between
       classification levels.
       A2.5.1.2. If using the same connector type for multiple classification levels, different
       colors of connectors and/or cables for each classification level is also a viable option.
   A2.5.2. Separation. Physical separation by a distance, which would eliminate the possibility
   of cross patching.
   A2.5.3. Software. Different software protocol for each level of classified information that
   will not allow interface with other levels.
   A2.5.4. SCI patch panels.
       A2.5.4.1. Separate dedicated patch panels must be used for unencrypted SCI and
       encrypted SCI. BLACK encrypted SCI panel can be used for other BLACK connections.
       A2.5.4.2. SCI patch panels must be uniquely wired, using different style jacks or plugs
       or sufficiently separated from other patch panels to prevent inadvertent cross connects.
A2.6. Separation Requirements:
   A2.6.1. Since TEMPEST requirements are based on the location, inspectable space, type of
   equipment, physical control, etcetera; each unit or facility may have different installation
   criteria. The unit TEMPEST officer identifies criteria particular to their circumstances
   according to NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-95A and as identified in their TEMPEST
   Accreditation. The Accreditation Authority (Defense Intelligence Agency [DIA] or the
   National Security Agency [NSA]) provides the TEMPEST criteria to the unit in a message or
   letter. Keep this letter or message on file. For collateral areas, the Wing IA office will
   identify the separation requirements using the EMSEC process outlined in AFSSI 7700.
   A2.6.2. The separation distances in national policy (NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-
   95A) when used in a SCIF are based on RED signal wire lines having one overall shield and
   are to be used as a minimum. The TEMPEST accreditation of a SCIF identifies the specific
   REDIBLACK separation requirements. If a separation is not specified, it is AFISRA's policy
   to maintain a minimum of 20 inches or 50 centimeters between any RED processor and
   BLACK equipment or BLACK signal wirelines that exit the inspectable space or are
   connected to an RF transmitter to ensure there is not any physical contact or mutual
   conduction that would cause a hazard. Contact the AFISRA CTTA to obtain a TEMPEST
   accreditation or if the minimum separation distances cannot be achieved.
   A2.6.3. There are no physical separation requirements between SCI and collateral systems or
   cables outlined in NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 except those in Section 6. However,
   sufficient precautions must be taken to ensure that no inadvertent cross connections between
   these systems occur.
   A2.6.4. Many separation requirements use the term wirelines exiting the inspectable space to
   identify a subset of cabling that requires separation. For clarity, all cabling should be
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                      21


   separated to the extent possible in the context of good engineering and installation practices,
   but those wire lines that actually exit the inspectable space must be separated because they
   are available to the adversary. The inspectable space is identified in the TEMPEST
   accreditation.
   A2.6.5. A CTTA may modify separation requirements based on a risk assessment.
   A2.6.6. RED processors include monitors, KVM switches, routers, switches, computers and
   other devices that process RED signals electronically.
A2.7. Filters:
   A2.7.1. Generally, power line filters are not required for AFISRA facilities in the CONUS.
   The SCIF Accreditation Authority (DIA or NSA) will specify power line filter requirements
   in the TEMPEST Accreditation.
   A2.7.2. Signal line filters may be required on signal lines exiting the inspectable space on a
   case-by-case basis. The SCIF Accreditation Authority (DIA or NSA) will specify the filter
   requirements in the TEMPEST Accreditation. Optical isolators are the preferred method of
   signal isolation.
A2.8. Protected Distribution Systems (PDS). SCIF accreditation authority (DIA or NSA)
approval must be obtained for a new PDS or to modify an existing PDS, before system
installation or modification begins. For DIA SCIFs, see DoD 5105.21-M-I, Appendix J,
TEMPEST Addendum. For NSA SCIFs, use the NSA TEMPEST Accreditation Worksheet.
Additional PDS installation requirements may be found in NSTISSI Number 7003 or NSA/CSS
Policy 3-12. AFSSI 7703 provides AF PDS policy and installation requirements.
A2.9. Isolation Requirements. Fortuitous conductors, which service or transit the secure area
such as water lines, sewer lines, steam pipes, and any other metallic structures, are considered a
means of escape for classified information. The SCIF Accreditation Authority will specify the
isolation requirements for fortuitous conductors in the TEMPEST Accreditation. These typically
consist of non-conductive breaks or grounding criteria.
A2.10. Cryptographic Equipment. Because the national policy does not address
cryptographic equipment, the AFISRA will follow the installation criteria for cryptographic
equipment located in AFSSI 7702.
 22                                                            AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 3
                                    VIDEO EQUIPMENT

A3.1. Classified. Install secure video equipment as a RED processor according to the
installation requirements of your TEMPEST accreditation, NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A
or AFSSI7702.
A3.2. Unclassified:
   A3.2.1. Ideally, install video equipment in break rooms and other areas where classified
   information is not discussed or electronically processed. Use it strictly for the convenience
   of unit personnel. Do not play classified video media on unclassified equipment.
   A3.2.2. Cable television brought into the SCIF area is BLACK equipment. Install cable
   televisions according to the requirements of NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95. This applies to
   television receivers and associated signal lines.
   A3.2.3. Television receivers within the SCIF must have the incoming antenna or cable
   service isolated to ensure TEMPEST and technical security are maintained. See NSTISSAM
   TEMPEST/2-95A, paragraph 4.9.6 for further details. A video cassette recorder (VCR) or
   DVD player are not acceptable isolation devices. Optical isolation at the SCIF entry point is
   the preferred method.
   A3.2.4. In some cases, as stated in the TEMPEST Accreditation, commercial TV systems
   must be approved by the SCIF accreditation authority (DIA or NSA). For DIA SCIFs, see
   DoD 5105.21-M-I, Appendix J. For NSA SCIFs, use the NSA TEMPEST Accreditation
   Worksheet.
A3.3. Multilevel Systems. Any system that handles multiple classification levels such as video
teleconferencing systems, keyboard-video-mouse switches, display walls, etc. must be
specifically approved by the SCIF accreditation authority. Since these systems handle different
classification levels in close proximity to each other and by various means, the risk of signal
compromise is greatly increased over a system that only handles one classification level.
Separation requirements are sometimes difficult if not impossible to meet. Therefore, these
systems must either be on approved lists such as the NSA Enterprise Solutions List or be
individually evaluated by the cognizant CTTA. The current policy on multi-position peripheral
switches is contained in JDCSISSS, Chapter 19, and NSA/CSS Policy 6-28.
A3.4. Dual Monitors. The use of dual monitors is considered an acceptable risk for facilities
that have at least 20 meters of inspectable space. The monitors should be configured such that
one connects directly to an unclassified computer and the other is connected through an approved
KVM switch. The two monitors must be separated by a minimum of 5 centimeters (2 inches).
Other BLACK equipment, such as administrative telephones, should be placed the required
separation distance from the monitor connected to the KVM switch. Facilities with less than 20
meters or other dual or multiple monitor configurations must contact the AFISRA CTTA for an
assessment.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                  23


                                        Attachment 4
                              SECURE VOICE EQUIPMENT

A4.1. Secure Telecommunications. A Secure Terminal Equipment (STE) is considered a
BLACK processor and should be installed as an administrative telephone.
   A4.1.1. When a STE is connected to a secure fax, computer, or some other classified
   processor; follow the guidance in NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, paragraph 5.5. A4.1.2.
   Single line STEs may be used in SCIFs without additional protection. Plug jacks and
   specialized ringers are not required.
   A4.1.3. Multi-line models may be used in SCIFs under the following conditions.
       A4.1.3.1. Common ringer is used.
       A4.1.3.2. All components and wires of the Key System Unit (KSU) are contained within
       the SCIF. If a telephone instrument connected to the KSU is located outside the SCIF,
       contact a CTTA for appropriate countermeasures.
Note: KSU approved for SCIFs are listed in the Telephone Security Group (TSG) 6, Guidelines
for Computerized Telephone Systems (CTS).
   A4.1.4. Do not use STEs with the speakerphone feature in a SCIF unless retrofitted to
   disconnect the console microphone and speaker. The Cognizant Security Authority (CSA)
   may grant waivers for conference rooms or special offices.
A4.2. NSA Secure Telephone System (NSTS). NSA/CSS Policy 6-15 provides installation
guidance for the NSTS. NSTS telephones are installed as RED processors. NSA installation
standards can be found at http://it.org.nsa.ic.gov/procmgmtlstandards. Failure to follow these
standards can result in significant delays, additional costs, and possible denial of services.
A4.3. Audio Security. Avoid simultaneous use of secure voice equipment and BLACK
telephone equipment. Care must also be taken to preclude inadvertent disclosure of SCI
background conversations or data when using collateral secure voice terminals within an SCI
area.
 24                                                              AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


                                          Attachment 5
                             ADMINISTRATIVE TELEPHONES

A5.1. System and Equipment Installation Requirements.
   A5.1.1. Three options currently exist for telephone instruments in a SCIF.
       A5.1.1.1. Install telephones meeting Telephone Security Group (TSG) Standard 6,
       published by the National Telecommunications Security Working Group (NTSWG)
       A5.1.1.2. Fit TSG 6 telephone isolation devices to each instrument.
       A5.1.1.3. Install a computerized telephone switch in compliance with TSG Standard 2.
   A5.1.2. All components of the telephone system, Key Telephone System or Computerized
   Private Branch Exchange, serving AFISRA facilities should be wholly contained within the
   controlled area of the SCIF. Telephone lines, which egress the facility, are looked at on a
   case by-case basis by a CTTA.
   A5.1.3. Guidance on the use of cordless and cellular telephones in AFISRA SCIFs is
   provided in JDCSISSS Chapter IS and additional restrictions may be imposed by the Special
   Security Office.
A5.2. Separation Criteria.
   A5.2.1. All unclassified administrative telephones are considered BLACK processors and
   are to meet the installation requirements of the TEMPEST accreditation, NSTISSAM
   TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A or AFSSI 7702.
   A5.2.2. Avoid BLACK telephone lines on mission floors and computer and communications
   centers. If the telephone lines are routed under the raised floor with RED cables, totally
   encase the phone lines in ferrous conduit or braided shielded cable. AFISRA/A6SE must
   approve installation of BLACK signal lines under a raised floor.
A5.3. Grounding and Filtering Requirements.
   A5.3.1. Ground all spare telephone wires and cable shields to a ground point established at
   the telephone filter panel or to the equipotential ground.
   A5.3.2. Remove all abandoned cables and conduits unless specifically programmed for use
   at a later date.
   A5.3.3. Do not filter or isolate BLACK telephone lines exiting the SCIF unless specified by
   a CTTA. Any filter requirements will be identified in the facility's TEMPEST Accreditation.
   If filtering is needed, a digital switch or a fiber optic line may provide sufficient protection.
A5.4. Prohibited Equipment. Speakerphones, headsets, and acoustic coupled equipment are
generally prohibited, but may be used if they not do not pass/transmit sensitive audio discussions
when they are idle and not in use and are approved by the telephone security officer or Special
Security Office.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                        25


                                         Attachment 6
                 ENTERTAINMENT AND PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEMS

A6.1. Comfort Music.
   A6.1.1. AM/FM radios or audio amplifiers and associated equipment are used to provide
   entertainment or public address capabilities in areas under AFISRA's security cognizance.
   A6.1.2. Tape recorders or combination radio receivers and tape recorders are prohibited
   unless their recording capability is disabled and/or disconnected. As a minimum, this
   involves disabling the recording head. However, digital voice recorders are allowed for
   official purposes, but must be inspected and approved by the Security Office (SO). Voice
   recorders will be secured and handled at the same classification level as the recordings on the
   device. Users will also comply with all applicable TEMPEST requirements when recorder is
   in use or when stored in an appropriate container. A log will be used to track device usage.
   A6.1.3. Install the system's components (receivers, amplifiers, and speakers) within the
   SCIF's confines. Install extension speakers at entry control points (ECP), outside the
   building, or in any area within the same physically controlled (fenced) area where people
   have at least a SECRET clearance. Contact a CTTA if a signal line exits the controlled area.
   A6.1.4. The system is considered a BLACK processor and is to be installed according to the
   TEMPEST Accreditation, NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A or AFSSI 7702. Use
   shielded cable throughout the system.
Note: Label antenna or speaker cables to identify them as music, television, or public address
system cables.
   A6.1.5. Microphones of some systems are used to provide unclassified public address
   announcements (such as fire, disaster preparedness, etc.).
A6.2. Cover Music. This subject is covered separately in ICD 705.
A6.3. Television Receivers. See Attachment 3.
 26                                                              AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


                                          Attachment 7
                                    FIBER OPTIC CABLE

A7.1. Method of Signal Distribution. Fiber optic cable is the recommended method of signal
distribution in AFISRA SCIFs. Migrating circuits to fiber optic cable as soon as feasible is
based on TEMPEST considerations and future requirements for greater data rates requiring
larger bandwidths.
A7.2. General. A fiber optic system converts an electrical signal to an optical signal, transmits
the signal through an optical cable and reconverts the signal to electrical form at the other end of
the fiber. Optical systems have several significant advantages over conventional cables when
used to transmit RED clear text National Security Information (NSI) within AFISRA controlled
areas. Fiber optic cables that have no metallic content do not conduct extraneous signals and are
unaffected by electromagnetic fields. They are not subject to crosstalk, ground loop problems, or
the transmission of common mode signals. They also do not have an electromagnetic field that
would cause a TEMPEST problem and do not require any shielding.
A7.3. Applications. Fiber optic systems that have no metallic content can be used to prevent
the unintentional transmission of RED information outside the controlled space because they do
not create electromagnetic fields, which could be induced on the BLACK fortuitous conductors.
A BLACK fiber optic cable may exit a RED area without further filtering or isolation. RED
fiber optic cables may be used to traverse BLACK areas when Protected Distribution System
criteria are met.
A7.4. Fiber Optic Cable Separation. Fiber optic cables need not comply with the
RED/BLACK separation requirements of the TEMPEST Accreditation, NSTISSAM
TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A or AFSSI 7702.
A7.5. Cable Strengthening Member. The strengthening member included in some multi-fiber
cables may contain embedded wires or mesh. Note: Any conductive component in the cable can
act as a fortuitous conductor. For this reason, do not use fiber optic cables with metal or
conductive material that egresses AFISRA facilities. Use of this type of cable external to
AFISRA SCIFs will be addressed on a case-by-case basis.
A7.6. Multi-fiber Cables. Do not transmit RED and BLACK information within the same
multi-fiber cable. Use separate cables with appropriate markings. Use separate fiber optic cables
for each classification level (Collateral and SCI) of RED information that is processed. If
allowed to use the same SCI cable for JWICS and NSANet, a distinctive marking and labeling
scheme must be implemented as the fibers are separated out at each end in order to prevent
misconnections.
Note: Large fiber cables that have multiple fiber bundles individually separated by opaque
sheathing may be used to carry multiple classification levels. However, each individual bundle
must carry only one classification level. The use of this method introduces additional risk of
compromise and precautions must be taken to ensure that each bundle is clearly marked and
labeled when the bundles are separated out from each other. The large fiber cable must be
protected and marked in accordance with the highest level of classification carried by the cable.
A7.7. Common Mode Signal Rejection. Common mode rejection is a measure of how well an
electronic device ignores a signal that appears simultaneously and in phase at both the input and
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                     27


output terminals. A fiber optic system with the source and detector powered from different
power supplies or amplifiers will eliminate all common mode signals.
A7.8. Fiber Optic Circuits. Fiber optic cable that has no metallic content exhibits no
electromagnetic radiation characteristics; however, it is possible to damage or tap the optical
fiber. Therefore, the fiber requires physical protection against damage and tampering.
A7.9. Fiber Optic Media Converters. These devices serve as modems, which convert the
electromagnetic signals to light for transmission on fiber optic cables. Install as any other RED
or BLACK equipment.
 28                                                          AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 8
                                TACTICAL EQUIPMENT

A8.1. References. See NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 or AFSSI 7702 for Transportable Systems
in a Tactical Environment.
A8.2. Tactical System Inspections. Use AFISRAICL 90-203 and modify locally according to
NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A or AFSSI 7703 to perform TEMPEST inspections on
tactical systems equipment. These systems are inspected annually or after a deployment,
whichever comes first.
A8.3. Shielded Tactical Systems. Some tactical systems may be fully deployable, self-
contained systems that are housed in a shielded enclosure. These shielded enclosures are
inspected annually or after the system is moved, whichever comes first.
A8.4. Transmitters. Transmitters in tactical systems not meeting the installation requirements
of NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 are required to be evaluated by a CTT A according to NSTISSI
7001 and to meet the requirements of CNSSAM TEMPEST/OI-02.
A8.5. TEMPEST in the Airborne Environment. See NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, Section 8
and ICD 705, for unique aircraft operations and installation.
A8.6. Aircraft Testing. Based on AFSSI 7702, all aircraft carrying AFISRA systems must be
tested according to CNSSAM TEMPEST/O1-02 during airborne system procurements and
modifications unless otherwise specified by a CTTA.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                       29


                                          Attachment 9
                FACILITY SHIELDING AND SHIELDED ENCLOSURES

A9.1. General. The use of shielded enclosures and alternative shielding materials must be
based on the results of an evaluation performed according to CNSSI 7000. The evaluation must
be conducted or validated by the cognizant CTTA. Shielded enclosures are to meet the
requirements of NSTISSAM TEMPEST/l-95.
A9.2. Alternative Countermeasure. It is important to realize that shielded enclosures are only
used when all other countermeasures are impractical or more costly. It is imperative that the
CTTA be involved so that alternative TEMPEST countermeasures are considered before a
shielded enclosure, wall, or facility shielding is used. Contact the AFISRA CTTA before any
facility shielding is installed. Many alternative shielding products are available to meet specific
needs.
A9.3. Window Treatments. Windows are one of the most vulnerable aspects of a facility.
Numerous window treatment products have been developed to provide differing degrees of
attenuation to various forms of wireless transmissions such as radio frequency and infrared. The
TEMPEST Accreditation provided by the cognizant CTTA will identity if window treatments are
required. The installation of window blast protection measures provides an excellent opportunity
to also add wireless attenuation measures with minimal additional cost.
A9.4. Inspections. Shielding materials must be inspected at least annually for shielding
effectiveness.
 30                                                              AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


                                         Attachment 10
                                 GROUND MAINTENANCE

A10.1. Ground System Test. The purpose of a system ground test is to verify effective
grounding exists for proper equipment operation and safety.
A10.2. Ground Plates. Accomplish testing at all ground plates on the interior of external walls
and columns. Measure value at each ground plate in the fractional ohm range (i.e., approximately
1/10 ohm) at the ANIFLR-9 stations with a complete ground grid under the concrete floor. At
non-ANIFLR-9 stations and other facilities without a complete under floor grid (i.e., separate
clusters of ground rods only), the measured value will likely be in the low ohm range (i.e., 1 to 5
ohms).
A10.3. Initial Check. For communication-electronic facilities accomplish the initial check
every 90 days for one year to develop a standard against which to compare future measurements.
after initial measurements, accomplish periodic testing every 21 months and upon completion of
major project upgrades. Erratic readings or problem ground connections should be checked at
more frequent intervals. Communication-electronic facilities and ground check requirements are
defined in AFI 32-1063, AFI 32-1065 and MILSTD-188-124B. For AFISRA, communication-
electronic facilities are those primarily designed for communications purposes including some
mission facilities, communications centers, etc. A communications closet with a phone switch
and some network equipment does not qualify the facility as a communications-electronics
facility. Discussions between the user, base civil engineers and the AFISRA CTTA will be used
to resolve discrepancies between facility designations.
A10.4. Ground Checks. Ground checks are accomplished using appropriate test
instrumentation designed for testing grounds. Additional guidance can be found in MIL-STD-
l88-124B and MIL-HDBK-419A.
A10.5. Ground Checking Responsibilities. Responsibility for the maintenance of exterior
grounds falls under the purview of Base Civil Engineering (BCE), AFI 32-1065, Grounding
Systems. However, the responsibility for checking and validating operations floor and computer
center ground connections rests with the user and is also performed according to AFI 32-1065.
If the unit does not have the proper personnel or equipment to perform the internal ground
checks, contact BCE or a contractor.
A10.6. Ground Check Files. Document results of the initial and periodic readings on a locally
prepared chart specifically tailored to each site's requirements and maintain on file. Design the
chart to easily identify fluctuations in readings over a period of time.
A10.7. TEMPEST Ground. Any ground specifically required for the effectiveness of a
TEMPEST countermeasure (i.e., shielded enclosure, power filter, etc.) or TEMPEST certified
equipment must be checked every 21 months. Although RED/BLACK separation is a
countermeasure, it should not be considered in the context of the TEMPEST ground.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                        31


                                         Attachment 11
                                     WIRELESS DEVICES

A11.1. Purpose. Wireless, especially Radio Frequency (RF), devices and systems pose a
particularly significant TEMPEST hazard if not installed using good engineering practices.
Devices that fall under this category are radio transmitters, receivers, land mobile radios, receive
and transmit pagers, cellular telephones, wireless microphones, cordless telephones, portable
data assistants, wireless local area networks, etc. These devices are generally prohibited in a
SCIF.
A11.2. Guidance. The DoD Portable Electronic Device policy places wireless devices into
high, medium, and low vulnerability categories and provides initial guidance for their use.
Guidance is also given in JDCSISSS Chapter 15. Receive-only pagers and infrared devices that
convey no intelligence data (text, audio, video, etc.) such as mice, remote controls and pointing
devices pose no TEMPEST risk and require no TEMPEST mitigation to be introduced into
AFISRA SCIFs. Coordination with and approval from local security officials is required prior to
introducing wireless devices into a SCIF.
A11.3. Radio Transmitters. Radio transmitters are inherently BLACK equipment; however,
they produce an RF signal that can introduce problems. To preclude these problems, special
attention must be paid to the installation. Transmitters that cannot meet the installation criteria
of this document, the TEMPEST accreditation and NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-95A must
have additional shielding or be evaluated by a CTTA according to NSTISSI 7001 and tested to
meet the requirements of CNSSAM TEMPEST/01-02.
   A11.3.1. It is mandatory to locate the transmitter and antenna a minimum of three meters
   from any RED processor and as close as possible to the point the antenna cable penetrated
   the SCIF.
   A11.3.2. The transmitter will not be powered from the same source as the RED equipment.
   As a minimum, it should have its own power source back to the SCIF main power panel.
   A11.3.3. If the antenna cable exits the controlled space, ensure the RF cables are routed to or
   through the radio frequency multi-couplers, power dividers, or other RF equipment for
   isolation and a ground.
   A11.3.4. The system should have an exceptionally good path to earth ground.
   A11.3.5. When control and signal lines exit the controlled space consult a CTTA.
   A11.3.6. Additional separation requirements for transmitter cabling are identified in
   NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95 and 2-95A.
A11.4. Approval Authority. Approval to install a transmitter in a SCIF shall be obtained
before system installation begins from the SCIF accreditation authority (DIA or NSA). For DIA
SCIFs, use DoD 5105.21-M-1, Appendix J, TEMPEST Addendum. For NSA SCIFs, use the
NSA TEMPEST Accreditation Worksheet
A11.5. Transportable Requirements. When the transmitter equipment is contained within a
shelter or van, see NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, section 7, or AFSSI 7702, Attachment 2.
 32                                                           AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


A11.6. Built-in Wireless Transmitters. Special care must be taken to not introduce devices
with built-in wireless capabilities. In many cases, the user may not realize these capabilities
exist. Client System Technicians and Information Assurance Managers must establish and
enforce procedures to ensure built-in wireless capabilities are disabled or removed prior to
introduction into the SCIF. RED equipment shall not contain any operational RF transmitters,
unless it is an NSA approved radio with embedded encryption.
AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011                                                                  33


                                       Attachment 12
                                  OFFICE EQUIPMENT

A12.1. Purpose. All telephones and telephone systems installed in AFISRA SCIFs must meet
the requirements of ICD 705.
A12.2. Telephone Answering Devices (TAD). TADs can be a Technical and/or TEMPEST
security hazard. Therefore, precautions and prior CSA approval is required for a TAD.
   A12.2.1. The TAD is used in a single occupant office, whereas the occupant has no one to
   answer their telephone or cannot forward the calls when they are absent. Other uses of a
   TAD are addressed on a case-by-case basis.
   A12.2.2. Use the TAD model that does not have remote control capability (i.e., cannot call
   in for messages or have a remote room monitoring capability). As with any telephone
   equipment, the TAD is government-owned and -procured. No personal equipment is
   authorized.
   A12.2.3. Install a TAD only with an administrative BLACK telephone or STE, if
   appropriate. Separation of the TAD from other unclassified or classified information
   processing systems will be according to TEMPEST installation guidelines of NSTISSAM
   TEMPEST/2-95.
   A12.2.4. When no longer needed or defective, destroy the recording media according to
   applicable procedures for destruction of classified media based on the highest level of
   information being processed in the immediate area.
   A12.2.5. Remove the recording media before performing any maintenance on the TAD.
A12.3. BLACK Computers. Unclassified computers, whether stand-alone or networked, are
considered BLACK equipment. Install unclassified computers according to the TEMPEST
accreditation, NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, 2-95A or AFSSI 7702. They are also subject to all
computer security measures.
A12.4. Facsimile Terminals. See JDCSISSS Chapter 16 for operating instructions for
facsimile machines in a SCIF. Install all facsimile machines according to NSTISSAM
TEMPEST/2-95 or 2-95A.
   A12.4.1. Single mode facsimiles no longer require a System Security Plan for secure or
   unsecure facsimile machines. However, facsimiles still require approval from the
   Information Assurance Manager and the security office for operation within a SCIF.
   Operating procedures and the approval to operate letter must be available at the facsimile
   machine.
   A12.4.2. Dual mode facsimile terminals (classified and unclassified) are no longer
   authorized per JDCSISSS, paragraph 16.3.1.1.
A12.5. Copiers. Install copiers as RED or BLACK devices according to the level of material
allowed to process. Newer digital copiers have capabilities, which are detrimental to security
including remote maintenance through modems or RF. Consult with local security officials to
evaluate and possibly disable these capabilities.
 34                                                            AFISRAI33-203 25 MAY 2011


A12.6. Typewriters. Presently, typewriters are rarely used to type classified information.
Because of this, typewriters are not considered a TEMPEST problem and do not require any
additional protection.
A12.7. Microwave Ovens. Microwave ovens do not constitute a TEMPEST hazard if they are
properly installed. Federal health and safety standards, as well as FCC standards, severely limit
microwave emanations from these ovens. Also, the relatively low duty cycles limit TEMPEST
vulnerability.
A12.8. Refrigerators, Coffeepots, Toasters. These items are not radiators and are not
considered a TEMPEST hazard.
A12.9. Unclassified Area. The creation of a de facto unclassified area is advisable for all
equipment not processing classified information. Use partitions, signs, and equipment labels to
denote this area. See NSTISSAM TEMPEST/2-95, paragraphs 4.3 and 4.9.
A12.10. Smart Card Reader. Not considered a TEMPEST hazard. Install for ease of use with
no mandated separation requirements.
A12.11. Digital Senders. Install as either a RED or BLACK processor depending on the
classification of the network it supports.
