BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                                        14-122
SURVEILLANCE AND
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                                          31 AUGUST 2010
                                                                               480TH ISR WING
                                                                                    Supplement
                                                                                28 MARCH 2013

                                                                                      Intelligence

                                                        AIRBORNE SYNTHETIC APERTURE
                                                        RADAR (SAR) IMAGERY ARTIFACTS
                                                                  RESOLUTION PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A3O                                                         Certified by: AFISRA/A3
                                                                         (Col Joseph T. Dinuovo)
                                                                                        Pages: 71
                                           (480ISRW)
OPR: 480 ISR WG/DOO                                                Certified by: 480 ISR WG/DO
                                                                      (Lt Col Dennis H. Howell)
                                                                                        Pages:11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Air Force Intelligence
Planning and Operations dated 2 April 2004. This instruction defines and establishes a
formalized and standardized process for the resolution of artifacts affecting the quality and
exploitability of all Air Force Airborne Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imagery products
collected and processed through the AF Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS)
enterprise, and sets policy and guidance concerning its implementation and incorporation into
existing quality assurance processes implemented for those products. It also establishes the roles
and responsibilities required of all units and organizations subordinate to Air Force Intelligence,
Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA) that are necessary to implement, execute,
and support this process. This instruction is applicable to all AFISRA units and personnel
responsible for the Quality Assurance (QA) of Airborne SAR imagery products and any of its
subordinate units and personnel assigned to or supporting the DCGS enterprise to include
AFISRA-gained Air National Guard (ANG) and AF Reserve Command (AFRC) units. This
instruction is applicable to all units and personnel at or subordinate to the 480th Intelligence,
 2                                                       AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Surveillance and Reconnaissance Wing (ISRW) assigned to perform Imagery
Intelligence/Geospatial      Intelligence/Measurements        and      Signals      Intelligence
(IMINT/GEOINT/MASINT) exploitation of Airborne SAR imagery products obtained from the
DCGS enterprise, and to the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC). Since this
instruction provides only general guidance, supplemental guidance is required to be published
and maintained by all units affected by this instruction IAW publishing requirements outlined in
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. You must forward one copy of your
publication to the AFISRA OPR. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records
managers as required.

(480ISRW) Air Force ISR Agency Instruction 14-122, Airborne Synthetic Aperture Radar
(SAR) Imagery Artifacts Resolution Process, is supplemented as follows. This supplement
applies to all 480 ISR WG staff offices and 480 ISR Wing-subordinate units conducting national
or theater GEOINT operations. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF FM 847,
Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF FM 847s through the appropriate chain
of command. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, 480 ISR WG/CC is the waiver
authority for this instruction. Request waivers through the appropriate chain of command to 480
ISR WG/CCEA, 34 Elm Street, Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA 23665-2092. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

(480ISRW) Contact supporting records managers as required.


       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    4
       2.     Background. ...........................................................................................................        4
       3.     Objectives. .............................................................................................................      4
       4.     Expected Results. ...................................................................................................          5
       5.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        6
       6.     Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution Process. .........................................................                           9
Figure 6.1.   Airborne SAR Process Internal and External Interfaces. .......................................                                14
Figure 6.2.   Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Process. ..........................................................                          18
Figure 6.3.   Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Process. ...................................                                   22
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                                                              3


       7.      Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Procedures. .....................................................                      26
Figure 7.1.    Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Procedure. ......................................................                      28
Figure 7.2.    Exploitation Mitigation (Detected) Procedure. ......................................................                    29
Figure 7.3.    Artifact Identification (Detected) Procedure. .........................................................                 30
Figure 7.4.    Local Artifact Resolution (Detected) Procedure. ...................................................                     30
Figure 7.5.    Exploitation Mitigation (Complex) Procedure. .....................................................                      32
Figure 7.6.    Artifact Identification (Complex) Procedure. ........................................................                   33
Figure 7.7.    Local Artifact Resolution (Complex) Procedure. ..................................................                       34
       8.      Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Procedures. .............................                                34
Figure 8.1.    Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution and Mitigation Procedure. ............................                                36
Figure 8.2.    Artifact Causality Analysis Procedure. ..................................................................               37
Figure 8.3.    Artifact Root Cause Analysis Procedure. ..............................................................                  38
Figure 8.4.    Artifact Data Trend Analysis Procedure. ...............................................................                 39
       9.      Airborne SAR Process Reports and Messages. .....................................................                        39
Figure 9.1.    Artifact Occurrence Report Template. ...................................................................                40
Figure 9.2.    Artifact Occurrence Report Instructions. ...............................................................                41
Figure 9.3.    Artifact Resolution Report Template. ....................................................................               42
Figure 9.4.    Artifact Resolution Report Instructions. ................................................................               43
Figure 9.5.    Artifact RFI Message Template. ............................................................................             45
Figure 9.6.    Artifact RFI Message Instructions. ........................................................................             46
       10.     Airborne SAR Process Analysis Data Worksheets. ...............................................                          46
Figure 10.1.   Collection Data Worksheet. ...................................................................................          47
Figure 10.2.   Target Data Worksheet. .........................................................................................        47
Figure 10.3.   Mission Data Worksheet. .......................................................................................         47
Figure 10.4.   ELINT Data Worksheet. ........................................................................................          47
Figure 10.5.   Sensor Configuration Data Worksheet. .................................................................                  48
       11.     Airborne SAR Process Subject Matter Experts (SME) List. .................................                               48
Table 11.1.    Airborne SAR Artifact Process Subject Matter Experts (SME) List. ....................                                   48
       12.     Adopted Form: .......................................................................................................   49

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         50

Attachment 2—SAR PHENOMENOLOGY AND CAUSALITY OF ARTIFACTS                                                                              52

Attachment 3—(Added-480ISRW) ARTIFACT/ANOMALY IDENTIFICATION
             CHECKLIST                                                                                                                 65
 4                                        AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Attachment 4—(Added-480ISRW) UNIDENTIFIED ARTIFACT/ANOMALY REPORT                                 67

Attachment 5—(Added-480ISRW) UNIDENTIFIED ARTIFACT/ANOMALY REPORT
             GUIDE                                                                                69

Attachment 6—(Added-480ISRW) GEOINT IMAGE QUALITY CONTROL STATUS
             AND TRENDS ANALYSIS REPORT                                                           71


1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to define and establish a process for the resolution
of artifacts and anomalies affecting the quality and exploitability of all Air Force Airborne SAR
imagery products collected and processed through the AF DCGS enterprise, and to set policy and
guidance concerning its implementation and incorporation into existing image quality assurance
and exploitation processes implemented for those products. For the purposes of this instruction,
this process shall be referred to as the Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution Process.
2. Background. The exploitability of any IMINT image product is generally governed by its
overall Image Quality (IQ). The IQ associated with Airborne SAR IMINT/GEOINT/MASINT
products is generally governed by their artifact content. The regular and repeated appearance of
artifacts within current AF Airborne SAR imagery products hampers or prohibits Image Analysts
from performing exploitation by degrading and/or masking the intelligence content available
within those products. As a result, the presence of artifacts within SAR imagery products
impedes the satisfaction of the intelligence requirements on which their exploitation depends and
hinders overall mission accomplishment. Current efforts within the Air Force focus on
attempting to control the IQ associated with Airborne SAR imagery products strictly from a
sensor perspective—ensuring the health, status, and performance of the sensor architecture.
Such efforts manage Airborne SAR IQ by taking a classic sample-and-evaluate Quality
Assurance (QA) approach—sampling image products on a time interval basis, analyzing and
assigning qualitative and quantitative metrics, and utilizing those metrics to assess long-term
trends in the degradation of sensor architecture performance as well as evaluate the performance
of maintenance processes executed on the sensor architecture in the field. While this approach
may be suitable for managing IQ from the sensor architecture perspective, it does not address
degradations in IQ resulting from sources or causes other than the sensor architecture
performance, nor is it effective for identifying issues in sensor architecture performance that are
of an intermittent or causal nature that do not happen to get sampled with that QA approach.
Artifacts affecting SAR IQ can also be present due to numerous other causes, but in particular
are due to irregularities in the motion or attitude of the airborne platform during collection, use
of extreme or out-of-tolerance collection geometries, and occurrences of intentional or
unintentional EMI events in the environment during collection. However, it is possible for a
number of these particular artifacts to be mitigated, compensated, or eliminated through
corrective or mitigating action, provided that these artifacts can be identified and attributed to
their particular causality. This can only be accomplished through a process of artifact resolution.
3. Objectives. The overall objective of the Airborne SAR Process is NOT to attempt to resolve
all the artifacts that can possibly occur within AF Airborne SAR imagery products, but to
improve the overall IQ and resultant exploitability of SAR imagery products through reduction
of only those artifacts that are able to be resolved to causalities that are within Air Force ability
to eliminate, compensate, or mitigate. To this end, the specific objectives of this process are to
identify those artifacts that can be attributed to causalities in which specific courses of action
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                           5


may be taken to: (1) avoid the causal conditions associated with, (2) initiate a process of
mitigation that results in compensation for, or (3) initiate a process of correction that results in
elimination of their occurrence from future SAR imagery product collections. As such, the
specific artifact causalities of interest to this process are those due to: (1) deficiencies in sensor
collection processes, (2) effects of intentional or unintentional EMI, or (3) those intermittent or
selectively causal anomalies in sensor architecture, to include anomalies that are detected
through current existing sensor architecture sample-and-evaluate QA processes and are deemed
necessary to report and investigate.
   3.1. (Added-480ISRW) In addition, this process will help to track trends in artifacts and
   anomalies affecting imagery products. Metrics will be documented, tracked and analyzed for
   use in sensor and processing improvement efforts, as well as the development of improved
   tactics, techniques and procedures for mission planning and execution.
4. Expected Results. As a result of implementation of this instruction, it is expected that
incorporation of this Airborne SAR Process into existing image quality assurance and
exploitation processes for Air Force Airborne SAR imagery products will:
   4.1. Facilitate a comprehensive Quality Management approach to controlling image quality
   that complements and expands constrained areas of the current sensor architecture Quality
   Assurance approaches.
   4.2. Provide a vehicle for incorporating advanced exploitation techniques to mitigate
   artifact-affected image products (when possible) to enable product exploitation without re-
   tasking and re-collection.
   4.3. Use advanced exploitation techniques to develop advanced signatures of artifacts
   characteristic of prior resolved EMI and sensor architecture anomalies that will enable image
   analysts to readily identify and report occurrence of such events for immediate action.
   4.4. Facilitate identification and resolution of artifacts attributable to specific sensor
   architecture operational limitations not evident to sensor collection planners that cause or
   contribute to artifact occurrence so that such limitations and operational practices may be
   avoided, thus reducing artifact occurrence.
   4.5. Enable identification and resolution of artifacts due to causalities resulting from
   unintentional practices in existing TCPED and/or CM processes and the subsequent
   correction of those practices.
   4.6. Augment sensor anomaly resolution processes by performing causality analyses to
   eliminate likelihood of EMI and other causalities which always have to be done in order to
   rule out external causes.
   4.7. Provide a conduit for the identification and migration of tools and techniques developed
   and used in the NTM community to facilitate better product exploitation and artifact
   mitigation from affected products.
   4.8. Enable identification of intermittent and causal sensor architecture anomalies that are
   not reliably identified by current sensor architecture quality assurance processes.
   4.9. Incorporate the collection of detailed metrics that enable analysis and evaluation of the
   impacts that integration of this process has on overall image quality and reduction of artifacts
   in products.
 6                                        AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


     4.10. The enclosed attachments encompassing the Airborne SAR Artifact Recognition and
     Reporting procedures and processes are intended to provide the minimum standards and form
     the baselines for unit specific operating instructions and checklists. They may be refined and
     modified based on real-world mission execution results to improve process efficiency and
     mission effectiveness.
5. Responsibilities.
     5.1. AFISRA/A3 will:
        5.1.1. Maintain overall responsibility for AFISRA subordinate unit implementation of
        this instruction by providing policy and guidance.
        5.1.2. Appoint a lead office (OPR) for oversight and management of the implementation
        of this instruction (AFISRA/A3O).
        5.1.3. Approve instruction revisions and updates as required.
     5.2. AFISRA/A3O will:
        5.2.1. Provide oversight and guidance for integration of the Airborne SAR Artifacts
        Resolution Process into existing image quality assurance processes at the
        Wing/Center/Group/unit level.
        5.2.2. Coordinate participation by all associated image quality assurance process entities
        at the Wing/Center/Group/unit level in any forum to create, update, or amend HQ USAF
        operational or intelligence policy or doctrine as a result of executing the processes of this
        instruction; such as Air Force Instructions or Tactics, Techniques and Procedures.
        5.2.3. Review Wing/Center supplemental publications to verify compliance with this
        instruction. Publications should be received no later than 30 days after date of publication
        or revision.
        5.2.4. Initiate, coordinate, and conduct headquarters staff actions to organize, man, and
        train forces as necessary to execute the processes of this instruction.
        5.2.5. Coordinate on Memorandums of Agreement, Memorandums of Understanding,
        and other support agreements between all associated image quality assurance process
        entities at the Wing/Center/Group/unit level and the external organizations necessary to
        execute the processes of this instruction.
        5.2.6. Review this instruction annually and revise/update as required.
     5.3. 480 ISRW will:
        5.3.1. Establish a Wing OPR to work with the AFISRA OPR. Provide name and contact
        information to the AFISRA OPR and update as needed.
        5.3.2. Apprise the AFISRA OPR of all issues requiring AFISRA attention. The AFISRA
        OPR is the AFISRA entry point for all issues pertaining to the implementation and
        execution of this instruction to ensure that all issues are addressed and resolved.
        5.3.3. Identify, develop, and consolidate requirements for manpower, systems, facilities,
        and resources to implement and execute the processes of this instruction and forward to
        the AFISRA OPR.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                    7


     5.3.4. Publish and maintain supplemental policy and guidance for the implementation
     and execution of this instruction for subordinate units consistent with AFISRA policy and
     guidance. Forward a copy of all supplemental publications to the AFISRA OPR no later
     than 30 days from date of publication and/or revision.
     5.3.5. Review Wing supplemental publications policy and guidance annually, and
     revise/update as required.
     5.3.6. Ensure subordinate units publish and maintain local supplemental publications as
     required for implementation and execution of this instruction. Forward a copy of all local
     publications to the AFISRA OPR no later than 30 days from date of publication and/or
     revision.
     5.3.7. Review subordinate unit local publications annually and direct revisions as
     required.
     5.3.8. Develop and coordinate support agreements with relevant associated image quality
     assurance process entities at the Wing, Group and Unit level, and the Direct Liaison
     Authorized (DIRLAUTH) to external organizations necessary to execute the processes of
     this instruction.
     5.3.9. Identify, develop, and consolidate requirements for training necessary to
     implement and execute this instruction and forward to the AFISRA OPR.
     5.3.10. Develop training specific to mission support requirements and ensure required
     personnel are fully trained to execute the processes of this instruction.
     5.3.11. Implement a training program to ensure forces are capable of executing the
     processes of this instruction.
     5.3.12. Monitor the effectiveness of the 480 ISRW quality assurance processes executed
     from this instruction and provide feedback to the AFISRA/A3O.
     5.3.13. Review this instruction annually and recommend revisions as required.
     5.3.14. (Added-480ISRW) 480 ISR WG/DO will:
        5.3.14.1. (Added-480ISRW) Appoint, in writing, a Wing OPR to maintain program
        accountability, ensure appropriate notification and effective implementation and
        dissemination of all anomaly/artifact guidance.
     5.3.15. (Added-480ISRW) 480 ISR WG/OPR will:
        5.3.15.1. (Added-480ISRW) Have primary responsibility for the Wing Imagery
        Artifact Resolution Program. 480 ISR WG/DOO will assist with management of this
        program.
            5.3.15.1.1. (Added-480ISRW) Coordinate tracking and documentation of
            monthly Image Quality Control Status and Trends Analysis Reports. All reports
            will be compiled and maintained for one calendar year.
        5.3.15.2. (Added-480ISRW) Organize resolution efforts for all Unidentified
        Artifact/Anomaly Reports.
            5.3.15.2.1. (Added-480ISRW) Unidentified Artifact/Anomaly Reports will be
8                                   AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


          coordinated through AFISRA, NASIC and 480 ISR WG resources for further
          analysis and interpretation. Any required resolution will be coordinated as
          necessary with AFISRA and 480 ISR WG entities being notified.
          5.3.15.2.2. (Added-480ISRW) Coordinate status reports regarding Unidentified
          Artifact/Anomaly Reports submitted from units in a timely manner as necessary
          or upon request of the POC/unit.
    5.3.16. (Added-480ISRW) 480 ISR WG Groups will:
       5.3.16.1. (Added-480ISRW) Appoint, in writing, a unit Image Quality Program
       Manager (IQPM) and forward a copy of appointment letter to 480 ISR WG OPR
       within 15 days of implementation.
       5.3.16.2. (Added-480ISRW) Publish and maintain a local supplement as required
       for implementation and execution of AFISRA 14-122. Units will forward a copy of
       all local publications to the Wing OPR and 480 ISR WG/DOO within 30 days from
       date of publication or revision of this supplement.
       5.3.16.3. (Added-480ISRW) Implement a training program to ensure IQPM and
       crew personnel are fully trained to execute the process outlined in this instruction.
    5.3.17. (Added-480ISRW) Unit IQPM will:
       5.3.17.1. (Added-480ISRW) Manage a training program to ensure crew personnel
       are fully trained to identify artifacts/anomalies affecting image quality.
       5.3.17.2. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure analysts are trained to fill in all applicable data
       within the artifact/anomaly field in UNICORN. See Attachment 3, Artifact/Anomaly
       Identification Checklist.
       5.3.17.3. (Added-480ISRW) Implement and document local mitigation process.
       See Attachment 3, Artifact/Anomaly Identification Checklist.
       5.3.17.4. (Added-480ISRW) Use available reference material found at:
       https//intelink.480isrw.langley.af.smil.mil/DO/IQ/Image_Artifacts/SAR/index_files/i
       ndex.htm.
       5.3.17.5. (Added-480ISRW) Implement local artifact resolution efforts IAW
       checklists and provided training.
       5.3.17.6. (Added-480ISRW) Review Artifact Resolution Reports to assist with
       identification/mitigation.
       5.3.17.7. (Added-480ISRW) Create and submit            to   Wing   an   Unidentified
       Artifact/Anomaly Report for un-identified artifacts.
       5.3.17.8. (Added-480ISRW) When requested, IQPM will provide Wing with
       additional information on unidentified artifacts.
       5.3.17.9. (Added-480ISRW) Request status reports for previously submitted
       Unidentified Artifact/Anomaly Reports when needed.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                        9


          5.3.17.10. (Added-480ISRW) Create and submit to Wing OPR a monthly reporting
          of artifacts/anomalies, as identified by analysts. The format and requirements for this
          report are in Attachment 6.
   5.4. NASIC will:
      5.4.1. Establish a Center OPR to work with the AFISRA OPR. Provide name and contact
      information to the AFISRA OPR and update as needed.
      5.4.2. Apprise the AFISRA OPR of all issues requiring AFISRA attention. The AFISRA
      OPR is the AFISRA entry point for all issues pertaining to the implementation and
      execution of this instruction to ensure that all issues are addressed and resolved.
      5.4.3. Publish and maintain supplemental policy and guidance, for the implementation
      and execution of this instruction for subordinate units consistent with AFISRA policy and
      guidance. Forward a copy of all supplemental publications to the AFISRA OPR no later
      than 30 days from date of publication and/or revision.
      5.4.4. Develop and coordinate agreements for analytical support with the Direct Liaison
      Authorized (DIRLAUTH) to external organizations necessary to execute the processes of
      this instruction.
      5.4.5. Monitor the effectiveness of the NASIC quality assurance processes executed
      from this instruction and provide feedback to the AFISRA/A3O.
      5.4.6. Provide analytical support to any image quality assurance process entities’
      executing the processes of this instruction in regards to identification and analysis of
      artifacts within Airborne SAR imagery products.
      5.4.7. Review this instruction annually and recommend revisions as required.
      5.4.8. Identify, develop, and consolidate requirements for manpower, systems, facilities,
      and resources to implement and execute the processes of this instruction and forward to
      the AFISRA OPR.
6. Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution Process.
   6.1. Introduction. This section begins with a background statement discussing the current
   QA processes that are presently in place for Airborne SAR imagery sensors and why these
   QA processes are inadequate toward improving the overall IQ of Airborne SAR imagery
   products. Following this, a brief discussion is presented to describe the phenomenology
   associated with artifacts within SAR imagery products. This discussion defines terminology
   and identifies some key characteristics of artifacts and the associated causes of artifacts that
   can be used as a basis for an artifact resolution process. Following this, the Airborne SAR
   Process is presented in detail.
   6.2. Background. The exploitability of any IMINT image product is generally governed by
   its overall IQ. The IQ associated with SAR imagery products is generally governed by their
   artifact content. The regular and repeated appearance of artifacts within current AF Airborne
   SAR imagery products represents a significant concern to both product IQ and sensor
   architecture performance. Current efforts employed to control the IQ associated with
   Airborne SAR imagery products are only being performed from a sensor architecture
   perspective—ensuring the health, status, and performance of the sensor architecture. Such
10                                      AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


  efforts manage SAR IQ by utilizing a classic sample-and-evaluate Quality Assurance (QA)
  approach—sampling image products on a time interval basis, analyzing and assigning
  qualitative and quantitative metrics, and utilizing those metrics to primarily determine long-
  term trends in the degradation of sensor architecture performance as well as evaluate the
  performance of maintenance processes executed on the sensor architecture in the field. This
  approach is used primarily because the quality to which the sensor architecture produces
  images is a key indicator of sensor architecture performance and is generally the first
  indication of sensor architecture anomaly. This approach is also reflective of the fact that IQ
  first and foremost depends on a sensor architecture that is fully functional and operational.
  However, much of the focus of this QA approach is on detecting anomalous behavior within
  the sensor architecture as a means to maintain the overall IQ performance. While this
  approach may be suitable for managing IQ only from the sensor architecture perspective, it
  does not adequately address degradations in IQ resulting from sources or causes other than
  the sensor architecture. What is necessary for comprehensive management and control of IQ
  is an approach that focuses on IQ factors beyond the limits of sensor architecture
  performance—one that focuses on IQ factors from all causalities and one that is not limited
  by the narrow sampling constraints of the classic sample-and-evaluate QA approach. This
  necessitates an approach that seeks to manage and control Airborne SAR IQ from an artifacts
  perspective.
  6.3. Artifact Phenomenology. Although this concept is not defined in technical literature,
  artifacts have their own distinct phenomena in terms of the characteristics of their visual
  appearance in SAR imagery products as well as in terms of their causality. Unfortunately, no
  uniform or standardized terminology exists to describe the phenomena associated with
  artifacts. For the purposes of this instruction, the following sections attempt to define some
  terminology and concepts for artifacts in particular, two important concepts: artifact signature
  and artifact causality. Their relevance will become apparent when these concepts are used in
  the context of artifact resolution.
     6.3.1. Artifact Signature. In general, the term artifact is used to describe a broad scope
     of visual effects in SAR imagery that do not represent the true target scene content.
     These effects are categorized by their appearance and/or cause. The appearance of the
     artifact may be entities that are located discretely within the image such as points, lines or
     shapes, or the artifact appearance can be an overall visual affect such as defocus or lack
     of contrast. In terms of range of effect, an artifact may have uniform effect or repeated
     occurrence over the entire image or only over a portion of the image with a definite or
     distinctive boundary between its affected and non-affected portions. It also may only
     occur as a singular entity located anywhere within the image. Artifact signature refers to
     the visually observable characteristics and attributes that an artifact exhibits that serve to
     distinguish it from other artifacts within a SAR imagery product. In the case of non-
     unique artifact signatures, an artifact signature may become mistakenly attributed to only
     one of the known possible causes, may be actually attributable to a cause which has yet to
     be known or understood, or may not be resolvable at all from all the known possible
     causes with the information available. A prime example of this is artifact signatures
     produced from EMI events being indistinguishable from potential sensor architecture
     anomalies. Given the existence of these ambiguities, it is clear that artifact signatures
     cannot always be attributed to their associated cause solely from their visual
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                    11


     characteristics observable from a detected SAR imagery product alone. However, artifact
     signatures may be characterized by more than the properties observed from the viewable
     images of both detected and complex SAR imagery products. In exploiting radar
     imagery, one must be able to distinguish between artifacts and phenomenology. Radar
     phenomenology is important to note, because they are not problems with the system, just
     effects that are intrinsic to radar systems. Phenomenology content examples would
     include glint, layover, motion blur (movers), or wind/wave smear.
        6.3.1.1. Artifact Static Signature. All discussion to this point regarding artifact
        signatures has been limited to signatures as observable in the viewable images of both
        detected and complex SAR imagery products. In general, the viewable image of a
        SAR imagery product presents only a static representation of its associated contents.
        As such, a given artifact signature observed from the viewable image of a SAR
        imagery product only presents the static representation of that artifact signature. For
        the purposes of this instruction, this static representation of artifact signature, as
        observed from the contents of a viewable image of a detected or complex SAR
        imaging product, shall be referred to as the Artifact Static Signature.
        6.3.1.2. Artifact Dynamic Signature. In reality, all of the contents of the viewable
        image of a SAR imaging product, both its target and artifacts content, actually
        represent the culmination of all the radar imaging data collected during a SAR
        imaging collection scenario. Given that a SAR image collection actually occurs over
        an extended time period as the SAR platform flies through its collection aperture, the
        final SAR image product can be impacted by effects that have a time-varying or
        dynamic nature. As such, some artifact signatures may have a dynamic character in
        affected SAR imagery products.           This dynamic character is an important
        characteristic of the artifact that can potentially be used as an identifying or
        discriminating characteristic. However, this dynamic character is generally masked
        from view because the viewable image of a SAR imagery product only presents the
        static representation of that artifact signature—the Artifact Static Signature. The
        dynamic representation of artifact signatures, if it exists, can be viewed from a SAR
        Dynamic Imaging (DI) product. Viewing of the dynamic representation of an artifact
        signature, however, may be hampered by the fact that DI products can only be
        generated from complex SAR product sources—detected SAR imagery products are
        not capable of being used to generate DI products. As such, observing this dynamic
        character of an artifact signature from detected SAR imagery products is not possible.
        The lack of the ability to even determine whether or not an artifact signature has a
        dynamic character can be a severely limiting factor in artifact resolution. For the
        purposes of this instruction, the dynamic representation of an artifact signature (if it
        exists), as observed from a SAR Dynamic Imaging (DI) product, shall be generally
        referred to as the Artifact Dynamic Signature.
        6.3.1.3. Artifact Frequency-Phase Domain Signatures. In addition to the dynamic
        characteristics that an artifact signature may exhibit, frequency and phase domain
        characteristics may also appear in artifact signatures. In other words, artifact
        signatures may have frequency and phase domain representations which are not
        detectable from the viewable image of a SAR imagery product. This representation
        can only be viewed with the aid of an image analysis tool, such as CASE Executive.
12                                       AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


         Furthermore, the frequency and phase domain representations of a SAR image
         product can only be generated from complex SAR imagery product sources (i.e.,
         detected SAR imagery products are not capable of being used to view the frequency
         and phase domain representations of a SAR image). As such, artifact frequency and
         phase domain signature characterization from detected SAR imagery products is not
         possible. The lack of the ability to even determine whether or not an artifact
         signature has a frequency and phase domain characteristic can also be a severely
         limiting factor in artifact resolution. For the purposes of this instruction, the
         frequency and phase domain representations of an artifact signature, as observed from
         the Frequency Domain Magnitude Component and Frequency Domain Phase
         Component image representations of the SAR imagery product, shall be referred to as
         the Artifact Frequency and Phase Signatures, respectively.
     6.3.2. Artifact Causality. Artifact causality refers to the one or more causal factors
     involved in the appearance of an artifact within the final image product. Artifacts within
     SAR imagery products are inherent to SAR imagery due to the utilization of radar as a
     basis for image collection. Artifacts occur within SAR imagery products due to
     numerous interrelated factors both internal and external to the sensor platform, which
     include but are not limited to: naturally occurring topography within the imaged scene,
     presence of severe weather and/or atmospheric effects, presence of motion within and in
     the vicinity of the imaged scene, irregularities in the motion and/or attitude of the
     airborne platform during the collection process, collection geometries and constraints,
     problems or limitations in the algorithms within the image formation processes used to
     produce the final image product, presence of electromagnetic interference (EMI) within
     the vicinity of the image target or airborne platform, and/or anomalies experienced in the
     imaging sensor architecture (i.e., hardware and software). This may be further
     complicated by the fact that two or more of any of these factors may be operating
     simultaneously producing multiple and convoluted effects. The inherent complexity
     associated with SAR imagery makes the process of attributing an observed artifact to a
     definitive cause an extremely difficult task—one that sometimes cannot be performed
     without detailed radar engineering and image science analysis, and in some instances,
     experimental verification. Similar to that of artifact signatures, artifact causalities also
     have characteristics in terms of their ability to specifically effect or limit certain static and
     dynamic aspects of the artifact signatures they produce in imagery products. Although
     these discriminating effects cannot be used for causality identification, they can be used
     in many instances to rule out or discriminate between specific causalities of an artifact
     signature based on the probability of whether or not the artifact signature exhibits these
     characterizing effects. As such, these effects can be used as part of a process of
     elimination, and together with other information, may serve to rule out enough of the
     potential causalities to provide a sufficient basis for a specific artifact causality
     attribution.
     6.3.3. Non-Image Derived Information. At this point, it should be clear that causality
     cannot always be attributed to an artifact or phenomenology solely on the basis of the
     characteristics and attributes of the signature alone. As such, additional information is
     required to be able to attribute an artifact signature to its particular causality. As learned
     from the discussion of artifact causality, some artifact causalities may also be
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                       13


     characterized by the circumstances associated with their occurrence or the lack of any
     circumstances attributable to their occurrence. It is these circumstances of occurrence
     that form the basis of the additional information that needs to be collected in association
     with an occurrence of an artifact signature in a specifically collected image product. In
     general, this information can be characterized into the following categories: image
     collection data, target history data, collection mission data, and sensor configuration data.
     6.3.4. Artifact Resolution. Artifact resolution is defined, for the purposes of this
     instruction, as the analytical process undertaken to attribute an artifact to a particular
     causality. As learned from the discussions concerning artifact signatures and artifact
     causality, the ambiguities that exist between and amongst signatures and their potential
     causalities impede the attribution of certain artifacts that may appear in SAR imagery
     products to their true causality, in particular to the causalities that are of primary concern
     in this instruction—collection process factors, intentional or unintentional EMI, and
     sensor architecture anomaly. In cases where an artifact signature is distinctive amongst
     other artifact signatures AND unique to one and only one causality, attribution to that
     causality is straightforward and done with little risk of error from the detected SAR
     imagery product alone. However, in light of the ambiguities possible amongst artifact
     signatures, it is clear that using an artifact signature observed from detected SAR imagery
     products cannot always and reliably be the sole basis for identification and attribution to
     its causality—other methods must be used to determine artifact causality. One such
     method is to utilize the characteristics and attributes of artifact signatures and the
     discriminating characteristics of artifact causalities, in conjunction with the use of non-
     image derived information (e.g., collection meta-data) and deductive reasoning to
     perform a process of elimination of potential artifact causalities progressively toward a
     path of complete resolution. It is this process that is to be employed for artifact resolution
     in this instruction.
  6.4. Airborne SAR Process. The Airborne SAR Process is a comprehensive process for the
  identification, characterization, resolution, and mitigation of artifacts in AF Airborne SAR
  imagery products. Given that this process is to be incorporated into existing image quality
  assurance and exploitation processes implemented for those products, this necessitates the
  overall Airborne SAR Process to be decomposed into distinctive quality assurance and
  exploitation components as well. As such, the Airborne SAR Process is comprised of two
  component processes: an Artifacts Reporting (AR) Process, to be incorporated into existing
  image product exploitation processes, and an Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Process
  (AR&M), to be incorporated into existing image quality assurance processes. The primary
  objective of the Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Process is to identify artifacts from SAR
  imagery products requiring further resolution that cannot be performed by image analysts
  without affecting production requirements associated with current imagery exploitation
  processes. Such artifacts are reported to image quality assurance personnel engaged in the
  Airborne SAR AR&M Process. The primary objective of the Airborne SAR AR&M Process
  is to obtain reports of artifacts from image exploitation personnel engaged in the AR Process
  and take actions as required to resolve the artifact to its associated causality and, if possible
  to either mitigate or correct its occurrence in future product collections.
     6.4.1. Airborne SAR Process Internal and External Interfaces. The relationship between
     the Artifacts Reporting Process and the Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Process is
 14                                    AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


      primarily one of information flow, as depicted in Figure 6.1. As well as information flow
      between these component processes, the figure also depicts the information interfaces
      between the component processes and external entities outside the overall Airborne SAR
      Process.

Figure 6.1. Airborne SAR Process Internal and External Interfaces.




          6.4.1.1. Airborne SAR Process Internal Interfaces.         The following internal
          information interfaces within the Airborne SAR Process are defined:
             6.4.1.1.1. Artifact Reporting Requirements. Artifact Reporting Requirements
             establish requirements for the repeated and continued reporting of both currently
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                    15


          unresolved and prior resolved artifacts from the AR Process to the AR&M
          Process. In general, Artifact Reporting Requirements reflect the relative priorities
          and reporting needs of artifact resolution activities in the AR&M Process.
          6.4.1.1.2. Artifact Occurrence Reports. Artifact Occurrence Reports are the
          means by which artifacts are reported from the AR Process to the AR&M Process.
          Artifact Occurrence Reports are generated based on the Artifact Reporting
          Requirements established by the AR&M Process. In general, Artifact Occurrence
          Reports will be required to be generated as a result of first time observance of all
          newly unresolved artifacts identified in the AR Process. Subsequent reporting of
          repeated occurrences of prior observed unresolved artifacts is then governed by
          Artifact Reporting Requirements from the AR&M Process based on whether or
          not the unresolved artifact is in the process of resolution or is determined to be
          ignored as a result of priorities or other factors. Artifact Occurrence Reports
          document all of the characteristics of the artifact being reported, to include but not
          limited to: a general description of the artifact, the imagery product in which the
          artifact was observed (annotated if necessary), any supporting DI image products
          identifying potential artifact dynamic signature, any supporting Frequency/Phase
          Domain images identifying potential artifact frequency and phase signatures,
          image collection parameters, rationale for reporting the artifact (if first time
          observance), and any other supporting information used to identify and
          characterize the artifact.
          6.4.1.1.3. Artifact Resolution Reports. Artifact Resolution Reports are the means
          by which the results of artifact resolution activities are reported from the AR&M
          Process to the AR Process. Artifact Resolution Reports document all the
          information relevant to the AR Process for the resolution of the artifact, or for an
          artifact that is in the process of resolution. Artifact Resolution Reports may take
          the form of either final reports or interim reports. Final Reports identify artifacts
          that have completed the resolution process. Conversely, Interim Reports are used
          to document artifacts that are in the process of resolution, and in some cases, this
          process may take a long duration of time as many factors are examined as
          possible causes of the anomaly. Interim Reports also are used to support the need
          to communicate artifact resolution progress and other relevant information to the
          AR &M Process, and facilitates the initiation of performing increasingly refined
          artifact signature identification and verification, performing specific local artifact
          resolution, and supporting requirements for further reporting and/or potential
          artifact exploitation mitigation techniques. Artifact Resolution Reports may also
          be generated for artifacts which are unresolved and are expected to remain
          unresolved in the foreseeable future, as well as fully resolved artifacts, in order to
          communicate the same relevant information as conveyed by interim reports.
          6.4.1.1.4. Metrics Collection Requirements. Metrics Collection Requirements
          establish requirements for the repeated and continued recording of both image
          quality and artifact occurrence metrics collected from the AR Process and
          reported to the AR&M Process. In general, Metrics Collection Requirements
          support the ability to perform unresolved artifact impact assessment and to assign
          or modify the relative priorities to be assigned to artifact resolution activities in
16                                AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


        the AR&M Process. They also support the ability to evaluate the overall
        effectiveness of the Airborne SAR Process in affecting SAR image product
        quality.
        6.4.1.1.5. Image Quality / Artifact Metrics. Image Quality/Artifact Metrics are
        collected by the AR Process and reported to the AR&M Process to evaluate the
        overall effectiveness of the Airborne SAR Process in affecting SAR image
        product quality. They are also used as a basis for the assessment of the impacts
        that artifact occurrences have on image exploitation processes as well as a basis
        for the assignment or modification of the relative priorities to be assigned to
        artifact resolution activities in the AR&M Process.
     6.4.1.2. Airborne SAR Process External Interfaces.           The following external
     information interfaces are defined:
        6.4.1.2.1. Collection Tasking.         Collection Tasking refers to specific
        IMINT/GEOINT/MASINT tasking for Airborne SAR imagery sensors.
        Collection Tasking takes different forms depending on whether it is from the
        Airborne SAR AR Process or the Airborne SAR AR&M Process. When it is from
        the Airborne SAR AR Process, it takes the form of tasking to re-collect a SAR
        imagery product that cannot satisfy exploitation requirements. This tasking may
        be modified from the tasking of the original collection so as to mitigate artifact
        occurrence in subsequent collection. When it is from the Airborne SAR AR&M
        Process, it may take the form of either tasking to generate imagery products with
        repeated artifact occurrence in order to verify a particular artifact causality or as
        part of a coordinated collection plan in conjunction with ELINT Tasking in order
        to confirm EMI causality or disprove sensor anomaly causality associated with a
        particular artifact.
        6.4.1.2.2. ELINT Tasking. ELINT Tasking is created from the Airborne SAR
        AR&M Process. ELINT Tasking is generally used as part of a coordinated
        collection plan in conjunction with specific Collection Tasking
        (IMINT/GEOINT/MASINT) for Airborne SAR imagery sensors in order to
        confirm EMI causality or disprove sensor anomaly causality associated with a
        particular artifact.
        6.4.1.2.3. Artifact Request for Information (RFI) / Response. The Artifact
        RFI/Response interface refers to the specific requesting and obtaining artifact
        identification and characterization support from NASIC. Support from NASIC
        Subject Matter Experts may be used in both Airborne SAR AR and AR&M
        Processes.
        6.4.1.2.4. EMI RFI / Response. The EMI RFI/Response interface refers to the
        specific requesting and obtaining EMI verification support from the ELINT
        Community.
        6.4.1.2.5. Air Force Spectrum Interference Resolution (AFSIR) Reporting.
        AFSIR Reporting is a general term for the reporting of EMI events in accordance
        with the reporting procedures of AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution
        Program. The EMI Report specified by AFI 10-707 is used for this purpose.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                 17


            6.4.1.2.6. Anomaly Request for Information (RFI) / Response. The Anomaly
            RFI/Response interface refers to the specific requesting and receiving of anomaly
            verification support from the Sensor Program for the particular sensor involved.
            This interface should allow for the transfer of anomaly metrics, and any other
            pertinent requirements or data requests from the Sensor/Sustainment Program to
            aid in troubleshooting and/or investigation efforts of artifact/anomaly events.
            6.4.1.2.7. Sensor Deficiency Report (DR). A DR is the general mechanism for
            the reporting of sensor anomalies in accordance with the reporting procedures of
            the Sensor Program for the particular sensor involved. Sensor Deficiency Reports
            may be generated from either of the Airborne SAR AR or AR&M Processes.
            6.4.1.2.8. Sensor Report. Reporting generated from the sustainment support out
            of AFMC/WR – Senior Year Quality Assurance Program (SYQAP) focusing on
            ASARS-2A Image Quality within the DCGS enterprise. The Sensor Reporting
            effort, the AR, and the AR&M processes should have the ability to feed each
            other in support of information and data flow for image quality/artifact metrics
            collection, along with artifact/anomaly resolution or mitigation.
     6.4.2. Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Process. The Airborne SAR Artifacts
     Reporting Process is shown in Figure 6.2. The overall objective of this process is to
     identify SAR imagery artifacts requiring further resolution, attempting to resolve them
     through locally available information and resources, and reporting those locally
     unresolveable artifacts to personnel implementing the Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution
     & Mitigation Process. The process begins with Airborne SAR imagery products that are
     affected by artifact content—for those SAR imagery products that have no artifact
     content, normal exploitation processes will be performed.
 18                                  AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 6.2. Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Process.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                    19




        6.4.2.1. Product Exploitation Assessment. The objective of Product Exploitation
        Assessment is to assess the overall exploitability of the artifact-affected SAR imagery
        product with respect to the Exploitation Requirements (ERs) and Collection
        Requirement (CR) Essential Element of Information (EEI) set for the collected
        product. If the product can be exploited as is with its artifact content present—
        artifacts that do not interfere with the specific exploitation requirements associated
        with the collected product, it is referred directly to Product Exploitation. However, if
        the artifact content does interfere with product exploitation but appears to be
        potentially exploitable if the artifact content were able to be mitigated in some
        fashion, the product is referred to Exploitation Mitigation. If the imagery product is
        so marred by artifact content that it is not exploitable at all or cannot be improved
        with Artifact Mitigation, the product is directly referred to Collection Mitigation.
        6.4.2.2. Exploitation Mitigation. The objective of Exploitation Mitigation is to
        attempt to use locally available tools and/or advanced exploitation techniques to
        mitigate the artifact content affecting the imagery product specific to its associated
        exploitation requirements. However, such tools and techniques are generally limited
        to certain types of artifact content as well as the specific type of SAR imagery
        product involved—detected or complex. In the case of a detected imagery product,
        mitigation is limited to using tools (if available) that manipulate the final detected
        image directly, affecting the overall content of the image product, both artifact and
        intelligence content. When such tools are able to be utilized, the resulting mitigated
        product must be further assessed to determine the severity to which the intelligence
        content of the product was affected, and whether or not the effects degraded the
        associated intelligence content sufficiently to impede satisfaction of exploitation
        requirements. In the case of a complex imagery product, the imagery analyst may
        have access to both tools and advanced exploitation techniques depending on the type
        of artifact content present. If such tools or techniques can be applied, the resultant
        artifact mitigated product must also be assessed as to whether or not it was effective
        in mitigating the specific artifact content that was interfering with exploitation. In
        either case, if the artifact mitigation was effective in mitigating the artifact content
        affecting exploitation and was able to provide a resultant product that preserves the
        intelligence content sufficiently to meet exploitation requirements, the resultant
        mitigated product is referred to Product Exploitation. However, if the artifact
        mitigation was not effective at all or was not able to provide a resultant product
        acceptable for exploitation, Collection Mitigation is required to be performed.
        6.4.2.3. Product Exploitation. The objective of Product Exploitation is to perform
        exploitation of either the original image product with its artifact content present or
        with the mitigated product(s) obtained from Exploitation Mitigation. If exploitation
        is performed successfully and completely, the product(s) is (are) referred to Artifact
        Identification for the handling of its residual artifact content—artifacts that did not
20                                 AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


     affect exploitation of the original product. However, if the original or mitigated
     imagery products are still unable to be exploited to the extent necessary to fully meet
     exploitation requirements, Collection Mitigation will also still be required.
     6.4.2.4. Collection Mitigation. The objective of Collection Mitigation is to
     determine whether or not modification of specific aspects of the original collection
     tasking is required to be changed in order to mitigate the artifact content from
     subsequent collection. If the artifact content within the affected imagery product is
     assessed as most likely a result of unfortunate or coincidental circumstances, the
     product may be referred for re-collection with no modification of collection
     parameters. If, however, the artifact content in the affected imagery product is
     assessed to be due to collection geometry issues, then the image product must be
     analyzed to determine the appropriate or optimal imaging azimuth and/or collection
     geometry that should be used in subsequent collection to eliminate or mitigate artifact
     occurrence. Other artifact causalities may be attributed to the sensor architecture
     operating at or beyond its capabilities or limitations for acceptable and reliable image
     quality, which could be a direct result of deficiencies in Air Force TPED, Collection
     Management, and/or sensor operational collection processes. Collection Mitigation
     requires direct coordination with the Collection Manager for the particular sensor
     involved to mitigate collection tasking parameters.
     6.4.2.5. Artifact Identification. The objective of Artifact Identification is to identify
     all artifact content within affected imagery products as required for the Local Artifact
     Resolution and Metric Collection process elements. Artifact identification is to be
     performed to the level that is required according to the requirements established for
     artifacts metrics collection from the AR&M Process. To facilitate this, image
     analysts will utilize local information resources, exploitation techniques, and/or the
     support of NASIC Subject Matter Experts to discriminate between and identify the
     specific artifact contents within the affected product. Support from NASIC Subject
     Matter Experts is accomplished through the exchange of Artifact RFI / Response
     Messages.
     6.4.2.6. Local Artifact Resolution. The objective of Local Artifact Resolution within
     this AR Process is to perform artifact resolution at the lowest possible level within the
     constraints and limitations of personnel performing image exploitation processes.
     The purpose of artifact resolution in this context is NOT to perform artifact causality
     analysis to resolve artifacts to their associated causality (as performed in the AR&M
     Process), but to use the results of the AR&M Process, in the form of Artifact
     Resolution Reports, as a basis for the identification and reporting of repeated or
     continuing occurrences of artifacts that either have been resolved prior to or are in the
     process of resolution. Artifact Resolution Reports will also be used as the basis for
     distinguishing new artifacts that have not been observed during previous observations
     of resolved or unresolved artifacts. The chief function of Local Artifact Resolution in
     the AR Process is to distinguish between resolved and unresolved artifacts in imagery
     products to be used as a basis for the generation of Artifact Occurrence Reports in
     Artifact Reporting and for the collection of artifact metrics in Metrics Collection. Its
     function is also to use the Artifact Resolution Reports of artifacts resolved to prior
     EMI events and sensor anomalies as a basis for their identification and direct and
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                      21


        immediate reporting of occurrences of such events and anomalies solely from the
        observance of their distinctive artifact signatures in current imagery product.
        6.4.2.7. Artifact Reporting. The objective of Artifact Reporting is to generate
        Artifact Occurrence Reports according to the Artifact Reporting Requirements
        established from the AR&M Process. Artifact Reporting Requirements establishes
        the reporting requirements for unidentified, ambiguous, and unresolved artifacts
        observed in current imagery products.
        6.4.2.8. EMI Reporting. The objective of EMI Reporting is to conduct reporting of
        EMI events in accordance with the reporting procedures of AFI 10-707. Only those
        artifacts observed in current imagery product with sufficiently distinct artifact
        signature and prior verified EMI resolution shall be used as the basis for initiation of
        this reporting.
        6.4.2.9. Anomaly Reporting. The objective of Anomaly Reporting is to conduct
        reporting of sensor anomaly events in accordance with the anomaly reporting
        procedures associated with the sensor involved. The function of Anomaly Reporting
        is to produce a Sensor Deficiency Report (DR) only for those artifacts observed in
        current imagery products with sufficiently distinct artifact signatures, and resolution
        processes indicate the cause is related to the sensor architecture.
        6.4.2.10. Metrics Collection. The objective of Metrics Collection is to collect
        metrics on overall image quality with respect to artifact occurrence and metrics on
        specific artifact occurrence rates. Metrics are to be collected in accordance with the
        Metrics Collection Requirements established from the AR&M Process. Image
        Quality/Artifact Metrics form the basis for determining the relative priorities that
        specific artifact resolution activities within the AR&M Process are to be conducted.
        These metrics also determine the overall effectiveness of the Airborne SAR Process
        in improving Image Quality, as well as determining the overall utility of artifact-
        riddled SAR imagery products.
     6.4.3. Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Process. The Airborne SAR Artifacts
     Resolution & Mitigation Process is shown in Figure 6.3. The overall objective of this
     process is to obtain reports of unresolved artifacts from the Airborne SAR Artifacts
     Reporting Process, assess the unresolved artifact for its validity, assess its overall impact
     to image exploitation and assign resolution priority, perform whatever analysis activities
     are required to resolve the artifact, and initiate or perform whatever mitigation activities
     are necessary to eliminate the artifact from future occurrence or mitigate its impact on
     current image exploitation processes. The process begins with the reporting of an
     unresolved artifact affecting SAR imagery products from the Airborne SAR Artifacts
     Reporting Process. As stated previously, the process is primarily one of information flow
     and should include AFISRA, NASIC and the Sensor Program in the circulation of all
     reports, even if for informational purposes.
 22                                     AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 6.3. Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Process.




          6.4.3.1. Unresolved Artifact Verification. The objective of Unresolved Artifact
          Verification is to verify the artifacts reported in Artifact Occurrence Reports from the
          Airborne SAR AR Process as being truly unresolved artifacts (either new or currently
          existing). To facilitate this, image quality assurance personnel may utilize local
          information resources, exploitation techniques, and/or the support of NASIC Subject
          Matter Experts. Support from NASIC Subject Matter Experts is accomplished
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                      23


        through the generation of Artifact RFI / Response Messages. Once the unresolved
        artifact has been verified, the process proceeds to Artifact Impact Assessment &
        Resolution Prioritization. At times there is a fine line discerning between an artifact
        and an anomaly, therefore it is recommended to include the Sensor Program,
        especially during an event of troubleshooting or resolution.
        6.4.3.2. Artifact Impact Assessment & Resolution Prioritization. The objective of
        Artifact Impact Assessment & Resolution Prioritization is to assess the overall
        impacts of the unresolved artifact with respect to imagery exploitation processes,
        determine if its impacts warrant resolution, and to assign a relative priority to its
        resolution so that ongoing resolution activities can be conducted according to mission
        priorities. This assessment generally involves an evaluation of the overall effect the
        artifact has to image product exploitation production versus its occurrence rate as
        observed in repeatedly collected imagery products. Factors for consideration in this
        assessment include, but are not limited to: the degree to which the artifact affects
        exploitation when it occurs in imagery products, the degree to which collection
        production is affected as a result of repeated collection, the degree to which the
        artifact affects overall intelligence production and/or impacts mission requirements,
        and whether or not exploitation mitigation techniques can be used to mitigate imagery
        product exploitation. If the occurrence rate as observed in imagery products is
        exceedingly low, the artifact may not be cost effective for resolution. If the artifact is
        new, as in a first time observance, this assessment and prioritization will have to be
        postponed until its occurrence in more imagery products can be observed. Metrics
        collected from the Airborne SAR AR Process (IQ/Artifact Metrics) are necessary for
        this assessment and prioritization. Should the impact to exploitation or collection
        processes be assessed as high or exceeding a certain threshold, the artifact is to be
        assigned a resolution priority. The 480 ISRW supports an activity for anomalies by
        submitting mission data into the Sensor Program to measure items such as anomaly
        occurrence rates in their Sensor Reports. This information should also be leveraged
        as part of the resolution prioritization effort determining what impacts warrant
        resolution (which includes deciding when to engage the Sensor Program on a
        Suspected Anomaly). Should the artifact not be of sufficient impact to warrant
        resolution, it is referred directly to Artifact Exploitation Mitigation. As a result of
        this impact assessment, the Metrics Collection Requirements may also need to be
        updated to include or exclude the artifact in/from Airborne SAR AR Process metrics
        collection. This assessment and prioritization may be repeated as often as necessary
        if occurrence rates of the artifact in imagery product appreciably change, as reflected
        in collected IQ/Artifact Metrics.
        6.4.3.3. Artifact Impact Assessment & Resolution Prioritization. The objective of
        Artifact Impact Assessment & Resolution Prioritization is to assess the overall
        impacts of the unresolved artifact with respect to imagery exploitation processes,
        determine if its impacts warrant resolution, and to assign a relative priority to its
        resolution so that ongoing resolution activities can be conducted according to mission
        priorities. This assessment generally involves an evaluation of the overall effect the
        artifact has to image product exploitation production versus its occurrence rate as
        observed in repeatedly collected imagery products. Factors for consideration in this
24                                  AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


     assessment include, but are not limited to: the degree to which the artifact affects
     exploitation when it occurs in imagery products, the degree to which collection
     production is affected as a result of repeated collection, the degree to which the
     artifact affects overall intelligence production and/or impacts mission requirements,
     and whether or not exploitation mitigation techniques can be used to mitigate imagery
     product exploitation. If the occurrence rate as observed in imagery products is
     exceedingly low, the artifact may not be cost effective for resolution. If the artifact is
     new, as in a first time observance, this assessment and prioritization will have to be
     postponed until its occurrence in more imagery products can be observed. Metrics
     collected from the Airborne SAR AR Process (IQ/Artifact Metrics) are necessary for
     this assessment and prioritization. Should the impact to exploitation or collection
     processes be assessed as high or exceeding a certain threshold, the artifact is to be
     assigned a resolution priority. The 480 ISRW supports an activity for anomalies by
     submitting mission data into the Sensor Program to measure items such as anomaly
     occurrence rates in their Sensor Reports. This information should also be leveraged
     as part of the resolution prioritization effort determining what impacts warrant
     resolution (which includes deciding when to engage the Sensor Program on a
     Suspected Anomaly). Should the artifact not be of sufficient impact to warrant
     resolution, it is referred directly to Artifact Exploitation Mitigation. As a result of
     this impact assessment, the Metrics Collection Requirements may also need to be
     updated to include or exclude the artifact in/from Airborne SAR AR Process metrics
     collection. This assessment and prioritization may be repeated as often as necessary
     if occurrence rates of the artifact in imagery product appreciably change, as reflected
     in collected IQ/Artifact Metrics.
     6.4.3.4. Artifact Causality Analysis. The objective of Artifact Causality Analysis is
     to perform trend and root cause analyses to attribute an unresolved artifact to its
     associated causality. Artifact causality analyses are conducted according to the
     priorities set for the unresolved artifact relative to all other ongoing resolution
     activities. If specific collection is required to support causality analysis, conduct
     Collection Planning. If causality analysis results in suspected EMI, perform EMI
     Verification & Reporting. If causality analysis results in suspected sensor anomaly,
     perform Anomaly Verification & Reporting. Resolved artifacts resulting from
     causality analysis are referred to Causality Impact Assessment. Unresolved artifacts
     for ongoing, long term analyses are referred to Artifact Exploitation Mitigation.
     6.4.3.5. Collection Planning. The objective of Collection Planning is to support
     Artifact Causality Analysis with the development and preparation of Collection
     Tasking and/or ELINT Tasking where additional IMINT/GEOINT/MASINT
     collection or coordinated IMINT/GEOINT/MASINT and ELINT collection is
     required to verify or disprove artifact causality hypotheses in support of artifact
     resolution.
     6.4.3.6. EMI Verification & Reporting. The objective of EMI Verification &
     Reporting is to support Artifact Causality Analysis with obtaining ELINT data from
     the ELINT Community that may be required to test (verify or disprove) artifact EMI
     causality hypotheses in support of artifact resolution. Should EMI causality be
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                     25


        proven, this process element will also conduct reporting of the verified EMI event(s)
        in accordance with the reporting procedures of AFI 10-707.
        6.4.3.7. Anomaly Verification & Reporting. The objective of Anomaly Verification
        & Reporting is to support Artifact Causality Analysis by coordinating with the Sensor
        Program to obtain data that may be required to test or verify artifact sensor anomaly
        causality hypotheses in support of artifact resolution. In cases where sensor anomaly
        is suspected or highly probable, this process element is responsible with coordinating
        with the Sensor Program on its activities to verify that an anomaly actually exists in
        the sensor architecture. This process element is also responsible for sharing with the
        Sensor Program the supporting evidence obtained from Artifact Causality Analysis
        that led to the reasons to suspect that a sensor anomaly may exist as well as
        supporting the Sensor Program in examining and testing specific sensor architecture
        anomaly causality hypotheses against that supporting evidence through further
        iterations of Artifact Causality Analysis. This process element may also directly
        generate a Sensor DR based solely on the supporting evidence obtained from Artifact
        Causality Analysis and the information obtained from the Sensor Program when that
        evidence is conclusive.
        6.4.3.8. Causality Impact Assessment.           The objective of Causality Impact
        Assessment is to assess the overall impacts of the resolved artifact causality with
        respect to future imagery collection and imagery exploitation processes. This
        generally depends on whether or not the artifact causality itself is correctable, and if
        not correctable, whether or not collection and/or exploitation processes can be
        mitigated to address and/or minimize its repeated occurrence in future collection.
        Factors for consideration in this assessment include, but are not limited to: is the
        causality correctable; if the causality is correctable, will it actually be corrected and
        how long will it take for the corrective action to be accomplished; if the causality is
        not correctable or will not be corrected, is there some operational causality mitigation
        that can be employed to minimize its occurrence; and will an exploitation mitigation
        be required to be developed and employed on an interim or permanent basis. The
        results of this assessment shall be used as a basis for determining whether or not
        exploitation mitigation and/or operational causality mitigation will be required to be
        developed.
        6.4.3.9. Artifact Exploitation Mitigation. The objective of Artifact Exploitation
        Mitigation is to identify any possible tools or advanced exploitation techniques that
        may be used in the Airborne SAR AR Process to facilitate exploitation of imagery
        products with the subject artifact present. Such mitigation may be required due to the
        artifact being not of sufficient impact to warrant artifact resolution, being not
        resolvable at this point in time, being resolved but not correctable, or being resolved
        and correctable but not in sufficient time to mitigate its impact to current exploitation
        and collection processes. The artifact mitigation strategy that is developed as a result
        of this process element is to be referred to Artifact Resolution Reporting for
        incorporation into the subsequent Artifact Resolution Report to be generated for the
        artifact.
        6.4.3.10. Artifact Resolution Reporting. The objective of Artifact Resolution
        Reporting is to produce an Artifact Resolution Report which documents the
 26                                      AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


          resolution activity performed on the subject artifact. The Artifact Resolution Report
          documents all the information relevant to the AR Process for the resolution of the
          artifact, or for an artifact that is still in the process of resolution. Artifact Resolution
          Reports may take the form of either final reports, for artifacts that have completed the
          resolution process, or interim reports, for artifacts that are in the process of resolution.
          The use of interim reports are for unresolved artifacts that require a long period of
          time to resolve and support the need to communicate artifact resolution progress and
          other relevant information to the AR Process, especially with respect to information
          that the AR process may need to perform more refined artifact signature identification
          and verification, perform specific local artifact resolution, and any specific
          requirements for further reporting, and/or potential artifact exploitation mitigation
          techniques. Artifact Resolution Reports may also be generated for artifacts that are
          not able to be resolved at the present time or foreseeable future, as well as for fully
          resolved artifacts, to communicate the same relevant information as for interim
          reports.
7. Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Procedures.
   7.1. General. This attachment defines procedures and identifies techniques for the resolution
   and reporting of artifacts affecting the exploitability of electronic soft-copy imagery products
   collected and produced by Air Force Airborne SAR platforms. It provides detailed guidance
   for the implementation of standardized technical and management processes for artifact
   reporting and resolution actions for affected airborne ISR imagery products. The procedures
   and techniques are provided as baseline tools to assist image exploitation personnel in the
   Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Process performing artifact resolution and reporting in a
   timely and efficient manner.
   7.2. Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Process. The overall objective of the Airborne SAR
   Artifacts Reporting Process is to identify artifacts within SAR imagery products requiring
   further resolution, attempting to resolve them with locally available information and
   resources, and reporting the artifacts that cannot be resolved locally to personnel
   implementing the Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Process. The process
   begins with Airborne SAR imagery products affected by artifact content—for those SAR
   imagery products that have no artifact content, normal exploitation processes will be
   performed.
   7.3. Assumptions and Constraints. The following assumptions and constraints affect
   implementation of the procedures set forth in this attachment into existing SAR imagery
   exploitation and reporting processes.
      7.3.1. Assumptions:
          7.3.1.1. Existing SAR Exploitation Processes. This instruction does not circumvent
          existing techniques and procedures for exploitation of SAR imagery products.
          7.3.1.2. AFI 10-707 AFSIR Implementation. This instruction assumes that processes
          for AFSIR are implemented IAW AFI 10-707.
      7.3.2. Constraints: Availability of Complex SAR Imagery Product. Not all Air Force
      Airborne SAR imagery sensors have the ability to produce complex SAR imagery
      products. Use of detected imagery products exclusively for these processes represents a
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                   27


     severe constraint on the effectiveness to which identification, reporting, resolution, and
     mitigation can be performed.
  7.4. Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Procedures. The Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting
  Procedure is presented in Figure 7.1. The procedure presented in the figure represents a
  generalized procedure for both detected and complex imagery products. However, individual
  procedures for detected and complex imagery products differ in terms of availability of
  artifact signatures that each product has and how they can be employed in various stages of
  the process. As such, separate procedures are required for each detected and complex
  imagery product. The following sections present the detailed procedures for each, detected
  and complex imagery product.
 28                                 AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 7.1. Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Procedure.




      7.4.1. Detected SAR Imagery Product Procedures. The following figures depict the
      specific procedures for Artifact Reporting specific to detected imagery products.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                   29


Figure 7.2. Exploitation Mitigation (Detected) Procedure.
 30                                    AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 7.3. Artifact Identification (Detected) Procedure.




Figure 7.4. Local Artifact Resolution (Detected) Procedure.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                          31




     7.4.2. Complex SAR Imagery Product Procedures. The following figures depict the
     specific procedures for Artifacts Reporting specific to complex imagery products.
 32                                  AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 7.5. Exploitation Mitigation (Complex) Procedure.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                  33


Figure 7.6. Artifact Identification (Complex) Procedure.
 34                                      AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 7.7. Local Artifact Resolution (Complex) Procedure.




8. Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Procedures.
   8.1. General. This section defines procedures and identifies techniques for the resolution
   and mitigation of artifacts affecting the exploitability of electronic soft-copy imagery
   products collected and produced by Air Force Airborne SAR platforms. It also provides
   detailed guidance for the implementation of standardized technical and management
   processes for artifact reporting, resolution, and mitigation actions for affected airborne ISR
   imagery products. The procedures and techniques are provided as baseline tools to assist
   image quality assurance personnel in the Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution and Mitigation
   Process performing artifact resolution and mitigation in a timely and efficient manner.
   8.2. Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Process. The overall objective of the
   Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution and Mitigation Process is to obtain reports of unresolved
   artifacts from the Airborne SAR Artifacts Reporting Process, assess the unresolved artifact
   for its validity, assess its overall impact to image exploitation and assign resolution priority,
   perform whatever analysis activities are required to resolve the artifact, and initiate or
   perform whatever mitigation activities are necessary to eliminate the artifact from future
   occurrence or mitigate its impact on current image exploitation processes. More generally,
   the objective of this process is to NOT necessarily resolve artifacts to the actual technical
   cause per se, but to resolve artifacts to the circumstances of their associated causalities that
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                        35


  may be verified either by confirmation with the sensor program involved or by experimental
  evidence observed through continuing collected imagery products.
  8.3. Assumptions and Constraints. The following assumptions and constraints affect
  implementation of the procedures set forth in this section into existing SAR imagery quality
  assurance processes.
     8.3.1. Assumptions: AFI 10-707 AFSIR Implementation. This instruction assumes that
     processes for AFSIR are implemented IAW AFI 10-707.
     8.3.2. Constraints: Resolvability of Artifacts. Not all artifacts are resolvable, nor will this
     process attempt to resolve all artifacts observed in SAR imagery product.
  8.4. Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Procedures. The Airborne SAR
  Artifacts Resolution & Mitigation Procedure is presented in Figure 8.1. The following figures
  represent a step-by-step process for artifact resolution and mitigation. These procedures
  represent a generalized procedure for both detected and complex imagery products.
 36                                 AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 8.1. Airborne SAR Artifacts Resolution and Mitigation Procedure.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013            37




Figure 8.2. Artifact Causality Analysis Procedure.
 38                                  AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 8.3. Artifact Root Cause Analysis Procedure.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                 39




Figure 8.4. Artifact Data Trend Analysis Procedure.




9. Airborne SAR Process Reports and Messages.
   9.1. Artifact Occurrence Report. The template for the Artifact Occurrence Report is
   presented in Figure 9.1, and the report template instructions are presented in Figure 9.2.
 40                                 AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 9.1. Artifact Occurrence Report Template.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                    41




Figure 9.2. Artifact Occurrence Report Instructions.




   9.2. Artifact Resolution Report. The template for the Artifact Resolution Report is presented
   in Figure 9.3, and the report instructions are presented in Figure 9.4.
 42                                  AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 9.3. Artifact Resolution Report Template.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013              43


Figure 9.4. Artifact Resolution Report Instructions.
 44                                     AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


9.3. Artifact RFI Message. The template for the Artifact RFI Message is presented in Figure 9.5,
and the message template instructions are presented in Figure 9.6.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013    45


Figure 9.5. Artifact RFI Message Template.
 46                                  AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 9.6. Artifact RFI Message Instructions.




10. Airborne SAR Process Analysis Data Worksheets.
   10.1. The worksheets referenced in this document were intended to be embedded objects
   (Microsoft Excel files) to be used for data collection and analysis. Due to AF document
   publishing guidelines, the embedded files/objects are not accepted or allowed at this
   publication. A copy of the Data Collection worksheets with Field Definitions (Microsoft
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                47


   Excel files) will be provided to the 480 ISRW and NASIC/DAG for use and storage. Copies
   can also be obtained from AFISRA/A3O. A sample portion of each worksheet is presented
   below. Not all fields in the worksheet are shown due to document page size.

Figure 10.1. Collection Data Worksheet.




Note: Not all fields in the worksheet are shown due to document page size limitations.

Figure 10.2. Target Data Worksheet.




Note: Not all fields in the worksheet are shown due to document page size limitations.

Figure 10.3. Mission Data Worksheet.




Note: Not all fields in the worksheet are shown due to document page size limitations.

Figure 10.4. ELINT Data Worksheet.
 48                                     AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


Figure 10.5. Sensor Configuration Data Worksheet.




11. Airborne SAR Process Subject Matter Experts (SME) List.
   11.1. Organizations for Subject Matter Experts and points of contact (POC’s) needed to
   support the Airborne SAR artifact reporting, resolution and mitigation process is presented in
   Table 11.1. Note: This table is provided as a template only, with primary SME/POC
   organizations listed. A detailed/populated SME/POC list will be provided separate from this
   document to the AFISRA OPR and shall be distributed as deemed appropriate keeping
   security and classification in mind.
   11.2. The SME/POC list should be updated on a routine basis and distributed accordingly.

Table 11.1. Airborne SAR Artifact Process Subject Matter Experts (SME) List.
   Contact           Org             Phone                             Email
                 AFISRA/A3O       DSN:              SIPR:
                                  COM:              JWICS:
                                                    JWICS:
                 480 ISRW         DSN:              SIPR:
                                  COM:              JWICS:
                                                    JWICS:
                 NASIC/DAM        DSN:              SIPR:
                                  COM:              JWICS:
                                                    JWICS:
                 480              DSN:              SIPR:
                 ISRW/TDA         COM:              JWICS:
                 (SYQAP)                            JWICS:
                 AFMC 560         DSN:              SIPR:
                 ACSG/CCO         COM:              JWICS:
                                                    JWICS:
                 NASIC/DAI        DSN:              SIPR:
                                  COM:              JWICS:
                                                    JWICS:
                 NASIC/DASE DSN:                    SIPR:
                            COM:                    JWICS:
                                                    JWICS:
                 NSA/CCS          DSN:              SIPR:
                                  COM:              JWICS:
                                                    JWICS:
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                   49


12. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                       BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                       Commander

                                       (480ISRW)

                                       JEFFREY A. KRUSE, Colonel, USAF
 50                                    AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFISRAI 14-121, Geospatial Intelligence Exploitation and Dissemination Quality Control
Program Management, 30 October 2009
(Added-480ISRW) AFISRAI14-122, Airborne Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) Imagery
Artifacts Resolution Process, 31 August 2010
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
CJCSI 3320.02B1, Classified Supplement to the Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR)
Instruction, 27 Jan 2006
CJCSM 3320.02A, Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR) Procedures, 16 Feb 2006
AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 20 June 2005
AFTTP 3-1.6, Tactical Employment – Distributed Common Ground System, 22 June 2006
Sensor Report: ASARS-2A monthly SYQAP performance report
Airborne Product Exploitation Artifacts Handbook, U2 ASARS-2A Artifacts and Phenomenology,
This softcopy/CD handbook presents information and samples of known SAR image artifacts, to
include causation and in some cases a recommended course of action. Initially, the handbook
will be hosted on the 480 ISRW/DO/ImageQuality website.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFSIR—Air Force Spectrum Interference Resolution
(Added-480ISRW) AOR—Artifact Occurrence Report
AR—Artifacts Reporting
AR&M—Artifacts Resolution and Mitigation
ASAR—Advanced Synthetic Aperture Radar
BE—Basic Encyclopedia
CDP—Collection Data Period
CM—Counter-measures
CR—Collection Requirement
DCGS—Distributed Common Ground Station
DGS—Distributed Ground Station
DR—(Sensor) Deficiency Report
EEI—Essential Element of Information
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                 51


ELINT—Electronic Intelligence
EMI—Electromagnetic Interference
ER—Exploitation Requirement
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
GRP—Ground Reference Point
IAW—In Accordance With
IFP—Image Formation Processor
IID—Image ID, Image Identifier
IMINT—Imagery Intelligence
IQ—Image Quality
(Added-480ISRW) IQPM—Image Quality Program Manager
JSIR—Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution
MASINT—Measurement and Signature Intelligence
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
QA—Quality Assurance
SAR—Synthetic Aperture Radar
RFI—Request for Information, Radio Frequency Interference
RWAC—Rapid Worldwide Area Collection
(Added-480ISRW) SYQAP—SENIOR YEAR Quality Assurance Program
TCPED—Tasking, Collection, Processing, Exploitation, and Dissemination


Terms

Anomaly/Artifact—Broad scope of visual effects in SAR imagery that do not represent the true
target scene content.
 52                                      AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


                                         Attachment 2
             SAR PHENOMENOLOGY AND CAUSALITY OF ARTIFACTS

A2.1. Fundamentals of Synthetic Aperture Radar.
   A2.1.1. Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) is capable of producing high quality images of the
   earth’s surface that avoid the daylight and weather limitations of traditional electro-optical
   imaging systems. SAR imaging systems belong to the class of active sensors in that it
   produces its own source of energy for scene illumination. Electro-optical imaging systems,
   on the other hand, belong to the class of passive sensors that are all commonly limited based
   upon their reliance on the use of external sources of scene illumination—the sun as a source
   of reflected electromagnetic energy or the energy of heat that is stored and dissipated from
   imaged materials. Such systems are also subject to the occluding and/or distorting effects of
   rain and cloud-cover in the atmosphere that interfere with airborne collection in virtually all
   optical-based systems. SAR circumvents these limitations primarily due to the operating
   wavelengths from which they typically operate.
   A2.1.2. Aside from providing its own source of scene illumination, SAR systems exhibit one
   further advantage over all passive imaging systems in its ability to take advantage of coherent
   illumination in its image formation process. Coherent illumination enables an imaged scene
   to be illuminated by a single point source of radiation using a limited band of frequencies and
   aligned in phase. This is distinct from non-coherent or incoherent sources of illumination,
   such as the sun, which in reality consists of a virtually infinite quantity of independent point
   sources of radiation representing a full spectrum of frequencies. Coherent illumination
   enables SAR systems to utilize standard signal processing techniques in its image formation
   process as well as use the principals of interferometry to produce some unique derivative
   imagery products that incoherent imaging systems cannot—such as digital terrain elevation
   maps (DTED), coherent change detection (CCD) images, and the like.
   A2.1.3. SAR Collection Modes.
      A2.1.3.1. Modern SAR systems are capable of producing images from a variety of
      collection modes. Although each SAR system uses its own naming conventions,
      fundamentally the operable collection modes come down to variations of two basic
      modes: Strip Map and Spot-Light. A further third collection mode of SAR often also
      exists which combines the properties of both Strip Map and Spot-Light modes, generally
      referred to as Scan mode. Strip Map mode consists of the SAR imaging sensor pointing
      its antenna at a constant orientation and illuminating a patch of ground as the sensor
      platform traverses in a straight line direction such that the illuminated patch traces out a
      long linear strip parallel to the flight path of the platform for as long as the radar is
      engaged. Spot-Light mode consists of the SAR imaging sensor pointing its antenna at a
      fixed ground location as the sensor platform traverses its flight path requiring the SAR
      antenna to be constantly slewed to maintain illumination on the fixed ground patch for as
      long as the radar is engaged. Strip Map mode images suffer from one distinct
      disadvantage from virtually all other modes of SAR collection in that they are of limited
      resolution, determined by the azimuth beam width of the SAR antenna; a particular point
      on the ground within the imaged strip is illuminated by the SAR antenna beam for only as
      long as the point remains in the antenna azimuth beam width while the SAR platform
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                         53


     traverses the strip. Spot-Light mode images, on the other hand, are capable of much
     greater resolution due to the fact that the antenna continually slews to keep the targeted
     patch of ground illuminated as the SAR platform traverses its flight path. Spot-Light
     mode image azimuth resolutions are only limited by the length of the synthetic aperture
     flown by the SAR platform during collection. Although the range resolution of both
     Strip Map and Spot-Light mode collections are tied to the band width of the SAR sensor,
     they are not dependent on antenna beam width or length of the synthetic aperture flown
     by the SAR platform. Modern Spot-Light mode images are capable of producing
     imagery with spatial resolutions that begin to approach that of remote optical imagery.
     A2.1.3.2. Scan mode combines the ability of the SAR system to capture an image in the
     form of a strip but avoids the limitations of Strip Map mode that only collects in a fixed
     orientation with respect to the SAR platform (i.e., image strips parallel to platform flight
     path) and with constrained azimuth resolution. Scan mode utilizes the slewing abilities of
     the SAR antenna like that of Spot-Light mode to enable the SAR system to collect
     images of ground patch strips of arbitrary orientation with respect to the flight path of the
     SAR platform as well as to allow the SAR antenna beam to utilize longer dwell times
     traversing through the targeted ground patch strip to increase the azimuth resolution of
     the collected image. Scan mode overcomes the dependence of azimuth resolution on
     azimuth beam width and SAR platform motion of conventional Strip Map mode,
     however, at the expense of much greater complexity in the image formation process. In
     general, Scan mode collections produce images of arbitrary geographic areas and in
     greater resolution than Strip Map mode but at resolutions still below that of Spot-Light
     mode.
     A2.1.3.3. Modern SAR systems generally contain collection modes in one form or
     another from the fundamental Strip Map, Spot-Light, and Scan modes. Each of these
     modes has common as well as unique characteristics, advantages, and limitations, each
     worth detailed discussion in their own right. Although the scientific and technical
     principles that are used to form images from these individual collection modes have some
     commonality in principle, the specific techniques that are utilized in each case are
     distinctly different and the elaboration of the specific techniques involved in each mode
     is beyond the scope of this document. Spot-Light mode, however, is normally the
     dominant mode used in virtually all military imaging applications. As such, all further
     discussions here shall be limited to the Spot-Light Mode of collection using airborne
     platforms.
  A2.1.4. SAR Collection Process. The typical geometry of an Airborne SAR Spot-Light
  mode collection consists of the antenna beam of the radar looking out of either side of the
  SAR aircraft platform, in a direction that is nominally pointed orthogonal to its flight path.
  This direction of radiation propagation is generally referred to as the range direction, whereas
  the direction that is nominally parallel to the flight path is referred to as the azimuth or cross-
  range direction. In a typical airborne platform collection, the SAR system periodically
  transmits a modulated pulse of microwave energy toward a targeted ground patch as the
  aircraft traverses along its flight path. As the transmitted microwave energy impinges upon
  the targeted ground patch, the reflective materials illuminated within the patch reflect the
  transmitted pulse back to the SAR where the aggregated pulse returns are received,
  demodulated, and stored. The typical Airborne SAR transmits only one pulse at a time and
54                                      AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


  waits for reception of the aggregated pulse returns from all the electromagnetically reflective
  materials within the illuminated ground patch before the transmission of the next subsequent
  pulse in the collection. As the SAR platform proceeds along its flight path trajectory, the
  SAR antenna continually slews its antenna beam maintaining its orientation on the same
  targeted ground patch. The flight path through which the SAR platform traverses while
  transmitting and collecting SAR pulse data is referred to as the synthetic aperture of the
  collection. The assemblage of the received and demodulated pulse data collected is
  commonly referred to as the Phase History Data. Once the collection is complete, this phase
  history data is then forwarded to an Image Formation Processor (IFP) for the SAR system for
  image construction. Based on the storage and processing capabilities of the particular SAR
  platform collecting, the image formation processor may be on board the platform itself or be
  located on the ground, in which case the collected phase history data must be down linked to
  a mission ground station processing facility. At completion, the image formation processor
  produces as output a reconstruction of the electromagnetic reflectivity of all the geographic
  points contained within the illuminated ground patch in the form of a two-dimensional non-
  literal image corresponding to the range and azimuth dimensions of the collection. The
  detailed process by which this collected SAR pulse data is transformed into this non-literal
  image representation of the targeted scene electromagnetic reflectivity is the result of
  complex signal processing techniques.
  A2.1.5. SAR Phenomenology. The theoretical means by which images may be constructed
  from a pulsed radar system is enabled by virtue of three principal factors: the
  electromagnetic phenomenology of natural and man-made materials to reflect incident
  electromagnetic radiation, the principles of radar in utilizing complex modulated pulsed
  signals to capture and preserve range and Doppler information within reflected pulsed signal
  returns, and the ability of the SAR system to use advanced signal processing techniques and
  algorithms to process the pulsed signal returns reflected from such materials in a manner that
  preserves their spatial distribution from the targeted ground patch and interpret them to fine
  resolution. In essence, a SAR image is a two-dimensional representation of the spatially
  distributed electromagnetic reflectivity of the reflective materials contained within the three-
  dimensional scene imaged by the radar.
     A2.1.5.1. Reflectivity of Electromagnetic Radiation. The phenomenon which enables
     imaging to be performed with a SAR system is the physical property of materials in the
     imaged environment to reflect electromagnetic radiation. Electromagnetic radiation is
     generally characterized by its frequency content, energy intensity, and electromagnetic
     polarization. From a technical point of view, the operating principles by which radiation
     reflects from materials are generally consistent across the electromagnetic spectrum.
     When electromagnetic radiation encounters a material in the environment, either through
     the medium in which it is traversing or its incidence upon the surface of a distinct
     physical object, it undergoes one or more of the processes of reflection, penetration, or
     absorption. When absorbed into an encountered material, electromagnetic radiation is
     generally transformed into heat energy within the material. When penetrating through
     the surface of an encountered material, the direction in which the electromagnetic
     radiation travels is generally altered by process known as diffraction. When reflected
     from a surface of an encountered material, the same operating principles that are
     commonly understood about visible light generally also apply to all radiation across the
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                      55


     electromagnetic spectrum—angle of incidence equals angle of reflection. The specific
     manner in which radiation reflects from the surface of an encountered material, as may be
     observed in reflected energy, depends on the reflectivity property of the material itself, as
     well as the physical size of, the contours within, and the orientation of the surface of the
     material it impinges upon with respect to the wavelength and direction of the incident
     radiation.
        A2.1.5.1.1. Electromagnetic Reflectivity of Materials.            The electromagnetic
        reflectivity of a given material governs the relative amounts of energy reflected from,
        penetrated through, and/or absorbed into the material from incident radiation. The
        reflectivity of a material is a fundamental property of matter and generally depends
        upon its molecular composition as well as the physical state of the matter.
        Electromagnetic reflectivity is also frequency dependent—the relative amounts of
        energy reflected, penetrated, and/or absorbed varies based on the frequency content of
        the incident radiation upon the material. Consequently, a material that happens to be
        a good reflector in one frequency range may be a poor reflector in another frequency
        range. In general, the frequency content and polarization of radiation undergoes no
        alteration in the reflection process due to the reflectivity of the material. However,
        the intensity of the energy reflected from that of the incident radiation is typically
        affected by the processes of penetration and/or absorption as a function of the
        reflectivity of the material.
        A2.1.5.1.2. Physical Surface Size. Aside from the reflectivity of the material itself,
        the most important factor in determining whether or not a material will reflect energy
        at all is the size of its surface compared to the wavelength of the incident direction of
        the radiation. The incident surface of the material must be at near the same size or
        larger than the wavelength of the radiation impinging upon it in order for energy to be
        reflected. Surfaces or objects of size less than this threshold will not reflect any
        incident radiation at all regardless of how good of an electromagnetic reflector its
        material composition may be. In general, the polarization of incident radiation has no
        affect on the reflection of energy from reflective materials with respect to the physical
        size of the material surface. The only exception where polarization does affect
        reflection is when the surfaces of special linearly-oriented surface geometries happen
        to precisely align orthogonal to the polarization orientation of the incident radiation.
        In such cases, little or no energy reflects from such material surfaces. As a rule,
        vertically polarized radiation tends to reflect more from surfaces with more vertically
        oriented geometry and less from surfaces with more horizontally oriented geometry
        relative to the direction of the radiation. The converse tends to be true for
        horizontally polarized radiation with respect to surfaces with horizontally and
        vertically oriented geometries respectively.
        A2.1.5.1.3. Surface Contour Relief. Once the electromagnetic reflectivity and
        surface physical size criteria of a material have been met, the specific manner in
        which radiation reflects from a surface of a reflective material is mostly governed by
        the contour relief present on the surface of the material incident to the radiation.
        When the wavelength of the incident radiation is large compared to the relative height
        differences of the contour features within the surface, the surface acts as a mirror-like
        reflector and creates what is referred to as a specular reflection. When its wavelength
56                                     AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


        is small compared to such contour feature height differences, the surface causes the
        reflected energy to be scattered and create what is referred to as a diffuse reflection.
        The amount of scattering present in a diffuse reflection is governed by the relative
        distribution and severity of the contour relief present in the surface. As such, it is
        possible for a surface to exhibit relative amounts of both specular and diffuse
        reflection. A specular reflection typically results in the reflected energy retaining its
        polarized nature intact from the original incident radiation. A diffuse reflection
        typically results in the reflected energy being depolarized as well as being scattered,
        the degree to which is governed by the severity of the contour relief features present
        in the surface. Surfaces with extreme and densely distributed contour feature content
        typically result in complete depolarization whereas surfaces with less extreme or
        dense contour feature content cause only partial depolarization of the reflected energy
        (i.e., some polarization of the incident radiation retained). Diffuse reflection is
        generally referred to as backscatter.
     A2.1.5.2. Principles of Radar Applied to Imaging.
        A2.1.5.2.1. The basic principles of radar underlie all of the phenomenology
        associated with SAR and have implications in all phases of collection, processing,
        and interpreting of the images producible by a SAR system. In fundamental terms, a
        SAR system is a radar system at its core and is governed by the basic principles of
        radar. Radar systems detect objects by transmitting signals and listening for their
        echoed returns. Radar determines the distance to which an object is located by
        measuring the time the signal takes to reach, reflect, and return from the object back
        to the radar. In radar terminology, this is referred to as radar range. Radar
        determines the velocity or the range rate to which an object is moving by measuring
        the difference between the transmitted and received signal frequencies and calculating
        object velocity based on the Doppler Effect. In radar terminology, this is referred to
        as radar Doppler. Although velocity and range rate in essence refer to the same
        phenomenon, the use of which term in a given situation is governed by the specific
        application of radar. When the radar is stationary with respect to a target that is in
        motion, the term velocity generally applies. In applications were the radar is moving
        with respect to a target that is stationary, as in the case of airborne radar imaging, then
        the term range rate generally applies. In order for radar to simultaneously determine
        target range and velocity or range rate, the radar signal waveform must embed both
        timing information—for range determination, and frequency information in order to
        detect Doppler frequencies.
        A2.1.5.2.2. In order for radar to be employed for imaging, there must be some means
        employed by the radar to enable the mapping of each radar signal return reflected
        from a material at a specific geographic location on the ground to a relative position
        within the produced image such that the spatial relationships to all of the remaining
        geographic locations on the ground within the illuminated scene are preserved in their
        resultant positions in the image. This is generally accomplished in SAR by exploiting
        the unique geometry associated with radar signal phase and Doppler as it applies to
        radar.
        A2.1.5.2.3. Phase and Doppler Geometry. A key enabling principle by which radar
        can be used for imaging within a SAR system is how the individual geometries
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                     57


        associated with the phase and Doppler of a radar signal are exploited to transform the
        data collected by the radar into a non-literal SAR image. The geometry associated
        with radar signal phase is somewhat different than that associated with radar signal
        Doppler. The combined geometries associated with phase and Doppler is typically
        referred to in radar terminology as the phase and Doppler space. It is these
        geometries which a SAR must exploit in order to transform the data collected by the
        radar into a two-dimensional image.
        A2.1.5.2.4. Geometry of Radar Signal Phase. If an airborne radar was capable of
        generating its signal in all directions surrounding its location without obstruction, the
        phase of the radar signal would radiate out uniformly spherical from its point of
        origin such that any distance from the platform at any given instant of time would be
        represented by sphere with its center at the platform location itself. If one were to
        imagine a three-dimensional geometrical grid of radar signal phase surrounding the
        platform at a fixed instant of time, it would consist of a series of concentric spheres
        surrounding the platform, all centered at the airborne position of the platform.
        Furthermore, if this three-dimensional grid was to intersect with the ground,
        represented by a simple geometric plane, it would be transformed into a two-
        dimensional grid in the form of a series of concentric circles all centered at the nadir
        point of the platform position on the ground. In such a scenario, each individual circle
        in the grid would represent a particular distance from the airborne platform and
        subsequently a particular phase of the radar signal. This is the general geometry
        associated with radar signal phase.
        A2.1.5.2.5. Geometry of Radar Signal Doppler.
           A2.1.5.2.5.1. The geometry associated with radar signal Doppler is somewhat
           different from that associated with radar signal phase. If an airborne radar
           platform was capable of generating its signal in all directions surrounding its
           location without obstruction and from a stationary point in space without motion,
           the frequency of the radar signal would also radiate outward in a uniformly
           spherical pattern like that for radar signal phase—constant in all directions.
           However, airborne radar platforms are not stationary, and the specific manner in
           which the frequency of a radar signal radiates out in any specific angular direction
           relative to the direction of the moving platform behaves according to the Doppler
           Effect. For a given radar signal radiating out in a particular angular direction
           relative to the direction of platform motion, its frequency will exhibit a
           determinably fixed Doppler shift based on the relative velocity of the platform as
           would be observed along that angular direction. Such would also be true for any
           orientation of that angular direction around the axis of platform flight trajectory.
           As such, if that same angular direction were to be orthogonally rotated around the
           platform along the axis of its flight trajectory, it would form the geometric shape
           of a cone with the apex of the cone located at the platform position. This is what
           is generally referred to in radar terminology as the Doppler cone, with the angle
           used to form the cone at the apex being referred to as the Doppler cone angle.
           Just as in radar signal phase with values of constant phase being observable on
           every point on the surface of a sphere, all points on the surface of a particular
           Doppler cone will exhibit the same Doppler shift in frequency for a radar signal
58                                AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


        observed to be radiating in the direction that follows along the surface of that cone
        directed from its apex.
        A2.1.5.2.5.2. In general, the lesser the Doppler cone angle with respect to the
        direction of platform motion, the smaller the Doppler cone becomes and the more
        positive the Doppler shift will be as experienced by a radar signal observed at any
        point on the surface of that cone, until reaching zero degrees where the Doppler
        cone becomes transformed into a line directly aligned with the direction of
        platform motion and the Doppler shift experienced by the radar signal becomes at
        its positive maximum. As the Doppler cone angle increases up to 90 degrees, the
        larger the Doppler cone becomes and correspondingly the smaller the positive
        Doppler shift will become as experienced by a radar signal observed at any point
        on the surface of that cone. When the Doppler cone angle reaches 90 degrees, a
        direction that is perpendicular to the direction of platform motion, the Doppler
        cone ceases to be a cone and becomes transformed into a flat plane centered at the
        platform location and the Doppler shift experienced by the radar signal becomes
        zero. When the Doppler cone angle increases beyond 90 degrees relative to the
        direction of platform motion, the Doppler cone becomes large again, but in the
        direction opposite to the flight direction of the platform, and the Doppler
        experienced by the radar signal begins to shift in the negative direction because
        the platform is observed to be moving away from that angular direction. As the
        Doppler cone angle increases from beyond 90 degrees up to 180 degrees, the
        Doppler cone becomes decreasingly smaller and the corresponding Doppler shift
        experienced by the radar signal observed at any point on the surface of that cone
        continues to get more negative until reaching exactly 180 degrees, where the
        Doppler cone again becomes transformed into a line directly aligned away from
        the direction of platform motion and the Doppler shift experienced by the radar
        signal becomes at its negative maximum.
        A2.1.5.2.5.3. If one were to imagine a three-dimensional geometric grid of
        Doppler surrounding the platform at a fixed instant of time, it would consist of a
        series of concentric Doppler cones surrounding the platform along its forward and
        reverse directions of travel, each with its apex at the airborne position of the
        platform. Furthermore, if this three-dimensional grid was to intersect with the
        ground, represented by a simple geometric plane, it would be transformed into a
        two-dimensional grid in the form of a series of concentric hyperbolas fanning out
        in both directions from nadir point of the platform position on the ground. In such
        a scenario, each individual hyperbola in the grid would represent a particular
        value of relative range rate from the airborne platform, and subsequently a
        particular value of Doppler shift as would be observed in a radar signal anywhere
        along that grid line. This is the general geometry associated with radar signal
        Doppler.
     A2.1.5.2.6. Phase and Doppler Geometry in Space. If the individual geometries
     associated with radar signal phase and Doppler are overlaid into the same volume of
     geometric space surrounding the position of an airborne radar platform, the combined
     three-dimensional geometric space would consist of concentric spheres interlaced
     with concentric cones centered at the position of the airborne radar platform in that
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                      59


        space. Attempting to use this combined phase and Doppler geometry in three-
        dimensional space, however, can produce some unusual affects in terms of radar
        signal interpretation. For example, when the geometry associated with a particular
        radar signal phase—the sphere representing points of equidistant phase, intersects
        with the geometry associated with a particular radar signal Doppler—the Doppler
        cone representing the points of equal Doppler shift, the net intersection is a circle
        with its center and orientation located along and perpendicular to the path of travel of
        the airborne platform. As such, all of the points on this circle represent a possible
        instance of a radar signal with the exact same phase and Doppler shift characteristics.
        If a radar signal were to intercept with and reflect from an object located at any point
        on this circle, the reflected radar signal would have the exact same signal phase and
        Doppler-shifted frequency characteristics. This makes it impossible for a reflected
        radar signal having a particular combination of signal phase and Doppler-shifted
        frequency characteristics to be attributable to a unique spatial position. This is
        generally known in radar terminology as ambiguity. Ambiguity represents problems
        in any radar application because it prevents a specific radar signal return to be
        uniquely attributed to whatever physical quantity the radar is measuring (i.e., range,
        velocity, location, etc.). All applications of radar inherently have ambiguities. In
        SAR, the ambiguity scenario described above generally explains the presence of
        signatures within SAR imagery such as the layover effect from elevated targets and
        the affects of objects in motion within or near the target imaged area. The challenge
        of using radar in any application generally requires the radar to be used in a manner
        which reduces or at least limits its inherent ambiguities.
        A2.1.5.2.7. Phase and Doppler Geometry in the Ground Plane. Although the
        combined geometry associated with radar signal phase and Doppler is entirely
        unsuitable when applied to the three-dimensional space surrounding an airborne radar
        platform due to the nature of the radar ambiguities it presents, it becomes more
        suitable when it is limited to applying to the intersecting two-dimensional ground
        plane of the earth. Such an intersection produces onto the ground plane a grid of
        concentric circles interlaced with concentric hyperbolas, all centered at the nadir point
        of the airborne radar platform projected onto the ground. This grid can in effect be
        used to represent a two-dimensional coordinate system of radar signal phase and
        Doppler on the ground plane. This limited geometry of radar signal phase and
        Doppler applied to the ground plane in effect enables every point in the ground plane
        relative to the airborne radar position to have an almost unique radar signal phase and
        Doppler associated with it. The reason why radar signal phase and Doppler is not
        entirely unique, however, is due to a residual radar ambiguity produced by the
        curvature of the phase and Doppler lines within the composite phase and Doppler
        grid. This grid curvature results in exactly two spatial points on the phase and
        Doppler grid for every unique coordinate value of signal phase and Doppler,
        positioned symmetrically equidistant on each side of the nadir line the path and
        motion that the airborne platform makes onto the ground plane. This is not
        detrimental if the radar onboard the airborne platform is employed to collect from
        only either side of the platform at a time with respect to the nadir line associated with
        its path of motion. In doing so, the ground plane is essentially split into two parts, one
        on each side of the airborne platform, and thus eliminating the radar ambiguity. This
60                                    AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


        is the fundamental reason which SAR collections are only performed from the
        perpendicular sides of collection platforms relative to its direction of travel. Doing so
        allows for each unique coordinate value of radar signal phase and Doppler to be
        attributable to one and only one unique spatial point in each half plane. As a result,
        the limited geometry of radar signal phase and Doppler applied to each ground half
        plane in effect enables every point in each half plane relative to the airborne radar
        position to have an unambiguously unique radar signal phase and Doppler associated
        with it.
     A2.1.5.3. Phase and Doppler Content of Radar Signal Returns.
        A2.1.5.3.1. Radar Signal Phase and Doppler Content Preservation. Another key
        enabling principle by which radar can be used for imaging within a SAR system is
        how complex modulated pulsed signals incorporate and preserve the range and
        Doppler information within reflected pulsed signal returns. In the typical air-to-
        ground airborne radar collection scenario, as a radar signal generated from the
        platform radiates toward a particular geographic position on the ground, the position
        and motion of the platform relative to that ground position at the exact instant the
        signal was generated causes the frequency content of the radar signal to be shifted in
        frequency according to the Doppler Effect. As such, when the radar signal reflects
        from a material surface at that particular ground position and returns back to the
        platform, it does so retaining its distinctive Doppler-shifted frequency content.
        Together with the amount of the time necessary for a generated radar signal to
        propagate to and return from a particular ground position, the specific phase and
        Doppler information embedded and retained within a reflected radar signal facilitates
        its direct attribution to that specific geographic position on the ground relative to the
        exact position, velocity, and direction of travel at the exact time the radar signal was
        generated.
        A2.1.5.3.2. Radar Signal Segregation. Aside from the preservation of the spatial
        relationships amongst imaged scene content, the detection of embedded phase and
        Doppler information content from reflected radar signal returns is also critical to SAR
        for radar signal return segregation. In the typical SAR collection scenario, a SAR
        generates a single pulsed signal and collects the aggregated signal returns reflected
        from materials in the illuminated target area. Because most of the materials within
        the illuminated target area are collocated, the signal returns reflected from those
        materials are overlapping with respect to both time and frequency. Without any
        ability to segregate the overlapping radar signals returned from such a collection,
        image formation would be impossible. Since the geometry of radar signal phase and
        Doppler on the ground plane causes each distinct geographic position with the ground
        plane to have a unique and unambiguous signal phase and Doppler characteristic in
        the reflected radar signal return, each of the reflected signal returns in the aggregated
        return have unique and unambiguous embedded signal phase and Doppler
        information content. This unique and unambiguous embedded phase and Doppler
        information content enables the radar to distinguish each individual return from each
        other with the use of signal processing techniques.
        A2.1.5.3.3. Imaging Radar Signal Waveform. Radar is capable of detecting both
        phase and Doppler information from reflected radar signal returns provided that
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                   61


        sufficient phase and frequency content is encoded into the signal used by the radar.
        The choice of the signal waveform to be used in a radar system is perhaps the single
        most governing property in determining its resolution capabilities and limitations.
        The typical modern SAR system utilizes a specially modulated pulse, called the
        Linear FM Chirp, as its transmitted pulse waveform. The Linear FM Chirp is
        characterized as a signal waveform where the frequency starts at some starting value
        and increases in a linear fashion until reaching an end value. The rate with respect to
        time to which frequency increases is referred to as the Chirp Rate of the signal. The
        Linear FM Chirp signal belongs to the class of Coded Waveforms in Signal
        Processing that have their own associated set of signal processing techniques. The
        Linear FM Chirp represents one kind of coded waveform known as a Dispersed
        Waveform and its associated signal processing technique known as Pulse
        Compression. The Linear FM Chirp represents one way to encode a radar signal with
        greater effective bandwidth that can be effectively used to achieve high range
        resolution without the negative radar system consequences of attempting to use CW
        burst pulse waveforms. The utility of using the Linear FM Chirp waveform,
        especially in imaging radars, comes about because the duration of this signal can be
        made long compared to that of a CW burst pulse signal, yet have the same effective
        bandwidth. The Linear FM Chirp is perhaps the most utilized of large time-
        bandwidth product waveforms in imaging radars. Given that the range resolution of a
        radar is determined by the bandwidth of the transmitted waveform, use of the Linear
        FM Chirp waveform in place of the CW burst pulse achieves the same effective
        resolution, but with more energy per pulse, which translates to a corresponding
        increase in signal-to-noise ratio in the captured radar image and a corresponding
        increase in image quality such as contrast.
     A2.1.5.4. Image Formation Process.
        A2.1.5.4.1. Fundamentally, the content within a SAR image is controlled by how the
        SAR image formation processor interprets the demodulated pulse data returned to the
        radar during the collection process. As such, the quality and accuracy of that SAR
        image content in representing the true electromagnetic reflectivity of the targeted
        scene being imaged is dependent upon the quality and accuracy to which the pulse
        data returned to the radar is preserved in all of the processes in the image processing
        chain starting from pulse signal reception at the antenna all the way through to
        production of the final image. A SAR imaging system is fundamentally a radar
        system, and as such, is subject to the same imperfections as most electronic systems
        are, to which the disciplines of engineering and manufacturing attempt to manage and
        control. Given the current state-of-the-art, such imperfections are unavoidable, but
        are managed within the context of the system design to be within limits that are
        acceptable such not to impact performance of the overall system so long as the
        operating constraints for which the imperfections were mitigated to are observed and
        adhered. Some imperfections are static in nature and are only mitigated through the
        static design of the system. Other imperfections are dynamic in nature and have to be
        managed through special one-time or continuing calibration to control and
        compensate for the imperfections to keep them within the tolerable limits necessary
        for proper and expected system operation. Those imperfections which cannot be
62                                     AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


         mitigated through static design or dynamic management are generally mitigated only
         by direct manipulation of the actual collected data through the means of algorithmic
         compensation (i.e., performed in the image formation processor). Nonetheless, even
         with proper system design and calibration, system imperfections may still arise from
         time to time to levels that impact operation of the system due to fatigue and/or failure
         of system components, calibration drift, or unforeseen conditions for which designed
         mitigations cannot manage or control. Note: All of these factors have the potential to
         affect the quality and accuracy of the contents of the final image product from a SAR
         imaging system.
         A2.1.5.4.2. Beyond these aforementioned issues associated with SAR imaging
         system hardware, there are also potential issues associated with the image formation
         process—the term that is generally used to represent the set of complex algorithms
         utilized to transform returned radar pulse data into SAR images—that also must be
         addressed.
         A2.1.5.4.3. In addition to transforming the collected radar pulse data into the final
         SAR image product, these algorithms must also perform tasks such as manipulate the
         collected pulse data into a form that facilitates its processing with conventional signal
         processing techniques, compensate for the errors in collected radar pulse data induced
         from SAR system hardware imperfections (as mentioned previously), compensate for
         the residual signal processing errors resulting from demodulation of collected radar
         pulses, compensate for effects on collected radar pulse data induced from
         imperfections in SAR platform flight path trajectory encountered during collection,
         compensate for imperfections inherent in the specific image formation algorithm
         chosen for image formation processing, compensate for the resultant geometric
         distortion present as a result of collection geometry, and perform transformation
         processes designed to negate the defocusing effects of collection geometry and
         improve the overall focus and/or quality of the final image product.
  A2.1.6. SAR Image Interpretation.
     A2.1.6.1. Radar images have properties that are distinctly different from those of optical-
     based images. Proper interpretation and information extraction from SAR images
     requires a fundamental understanding and appreciation of at least some of these
     properties. SAR image properties fundamentally fall into two types or categories:
     extrinsic—where properties of the scene being imaged produce effects in the resultant
     image independent of the radar system, and intrinsic—properties that are generated
     purely by the radar system itself and the signal processing involved in the image
     processing chain.
     A2.1.6.2. All properties have some effect in the quality of the resultant image product,
     some more than others. System intrinsic properties are significant in their ability to affect
     the extrinsic image properties generated by the external world. The SAR system can
     modify, distort, or produce uncertainties in the extrinsic properties of the scene being
     imaged. Further distinction must also be made between intrinsic properties of the SAR
     imaging system, which cannot be overcome, and artifacts produced by errors or
     inadequacies in the behavior of the imaging system and its associated signal processing.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                     63


     A2.1.6.3. In terms of SAR systems, only reflections from specular surfaces with
     orientations perpendicular to the pulsed signal generated by the radar return to the radar.
     Such reflections appear as light areas within a SAR image—the stronger the return, the
     whiter the area in the image. Given that electromagnetic energy reflections from all other
     specular surface orientations relative to the radar is reflected away from the radar, such
     reflections appear as completely dark areas within a SAR image. Diffuse surfaces with
     all but extreme surface orientations away from the radar all provide some backscatter
     signal energy returned to the radar. Diffuse reflections are usually appear as various
     tones of gray in SAR images, with darker tones representing weak signal returns and
     lighter tones representing stronger signal returns. Not much exploitation value can be
     gained from interpreting the specific shade or tone of gray represented in an image as the
     electromagnetic reflectivity, surface texture, and surface orientation all play a part in
     determining the amount of backscatter energy returned in a reflection from a diffuse
     surface, and these factors cannot be distinguished from one another without a priori
     knowledge of the content of the imaged scene. In general, the diffuse reflections
     represented in a SAR image generally bring context to the specular reflections
     represented in an imaged scene. As for surfaces or objects with surfaces that are small
     compared to the wavelength of the SAR system, such surfaces do not reflect
     electromagnetic energy, regardless of electromagnetic reflectivity of the material
     involved. The consequences for a SAR imaging system are that surfaces of such size
     would not be visibly apparent in SAR imagery products because they are not discernable
     to the radar.
     A2.1.6.4. In regards to polarization, specular reflections from surfaces which happen to
     alter the polarization orientation of the returning electromagnetic energy, either from
     direct or multi-path reflection, may negate the ability of the SAR system to collect the
     returned pulse by the fact that the polarization of the antenna prevents or attenuates its
     detection based on how the polarization was modified in the reflection process. Such
     surfaces may in effect appear as an absorber or diffuser of electromagnetic energy to the
     SAR system rather than the true specular reflector that it actually is. As a result, some
     SAR systems are designed with the ability to generate both vertically and horizontally
     polarized radar signals, as well as the ability to collect in cross-polarized configurations
     (i.e., transmit in one polarization and receive in the other) in order to enhance collection
     capability. Typically, Airborne SAR systems possess the capability to operate in one
     polarization only, and that polarization tends to be vertical.
     A2.1.6.5. In general, SAR systems are designed to operate in the radio frequency (RF)
     portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, most predominantly in the X-Band frequency
     range (8.5-10.6 GHz) with wavelengths near 3 cm (actual 2.8-3.5 cm). In terms of
     electromagnetic reflectivity at these wavelengths, man-made surfaces and structures
     made from metal and masonry are good specular reflectors. Surfaces such as roads or
     runways turn out to be highly specular reflective surfaces due to their surface textures
     being smooth in comparison to a 3 cm wavelength. This is contrasted to the appearance
     of roads and runways as diffuse reflections in EO systems which operate in the regions
     around the visible light portion of the electromagnetic spectrum with wavelengths at
     around 0.4 to 0.7 micrometers. Water in its liquid form as in bodies of water is also a
     highly specular reflector. This is contrasted with water in vapor form (as in clouds) or in
64                                    AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


     light to moderate rain, which is for all practical purposes reflectively invisible at RF
     wavelengths. Wavelength is the primary reason that enables SAR systems to penetrate or
     look through cloud cover and forms of moderate weather. Wood, if extremely dry, as
     well as other dry materials such as canvas and netting, are poor reflectors and generally
     transparent to SAR. However, should structures or surfaces of poor reflectors should
     become wet or subjected to a film of dirt, oil or debris, they can become excellent
     reflectors.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                          65


                               Attachment 3 (Added-480ISRW)
                 ARTIFACT/ANOMALY IDENTIFICATION CHECKLIST

Upon observation of on artifact/anomaly, the following actions will occur. The Analyst will:

1. Identify whether the artifact/anomaly affects ability to exploit the image:
a. If YES, proceed to 2.

b. If NO, exploit the image and create required products before proceeding to 3.

2. Artifact/anomaly affects exploitation:

a. Coordinate with appropriate entity to request a retask of the target.

b. Retask as needed/able until platform has RTB’d or otherwise directed by mission supervisor.

c. If unable to retask or retask does not provide exploitable image, use available enhancement
tools to attempt to mitigate image quality issues.

d. If above steps provide an image that is exploitable, see 1.b.

e. If above steps do not provide an exploitable image, notify appropriate persons before
proceeding to 3.

3. Identifying artifact/anomaly:

a. Using available working aids and training materials, and coordinating with other analysts,
attempt to identify the artifact/anomaly.

b. Update Unicorn as needed. Using the artifact/anomaly field, provide as much detail as
possible concerning the artifact/anomaly and its effects on the image quality and the analyst’s
ability to exploit this target. When possible, identify type of anomaly/artifact (i.e. twizzler,
azimuth streak, missing blocks, etc.). Also provide detail on any steps taken (see 2.) to
address/correct artifact/anomaly.

The IQPM will:

1. Search Unicorn for all instances of artifacts/anomalies annotated by analysts from your
unit(s).

2. For artifacts/anomalies that the analyst was unable to identify, review imagery to confirm or
adjust the call-out. Use all available resources, to include other analysts, when attempting to
further identify artifacts/anomalies.
 66                                       AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


3. After reviewing the call-outs, document all identified artifacts/anomalies for trends analysis
purposes, reporting any new unidentified artifacts/anomalies through the appropriate channels.

4. In the event of an unidentified artifact/anomaly, use the Unidentified Artifact/Anomaly
Report in Attachment 4 to provide as much detail as possible and forward the report to the Wing
OPR for mitigation.

5. At the end of each month, use statistics from search to compile monthly Image Quality
Control Status and Trends Report, as shown in Attachment 6.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                  67


                             Attachment 4 (Added-480ISRW)
                   UNIDENTIFIED ARTIFACT/ANOMALY REPORT

1. Date: _____________

2. Artifact Description: ___________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

3. Mission Data for Affected Image: ________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________

4. Collection Parameters: _________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

5. Target Information: ____________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

6. File Name: ___________________________________________________________


7. Post Mission Summary: ________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

8. Product Exploitation Impact: ____________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

9. Exploitation/Collection Mitigation Employed and Effectiveness: ________________
_______________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

10. Resource Checklist:

a. ____ Compared imaged in question with prior airborne imagery from image archives.

b. ____ Compared image in question with prior NTM from image archives.

c. ____ Referenced U2 ASARS-2A Artifacts and Phenomenology e-book, or other
training materials.

(https://intelink.480isrwglangley.af.smil.mil/DO/IQ/Image_Artifacts/SAR/index_files/index.htm
)
 68                                       AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013


d. ____ Referenced “image artifacts” WIKI.

(http://www.intelink.ic.gov/wiki/Airborne_Image_Artifacts,
http://www.intelink.ic.gov/wiki/Image_Artifacts)

e. ____ Verified that no known aircraft or sensor architecture problem existed from Post
Mission Report.

f. ____ Reviewed local weather at time of imagery.

g. ____ Obtained NASIC SME support.

1. Sources Contacted: ____________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

2. Additional Comments: _________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________

3. POC:

a. Name/Title:

b. Unit/Duty Section:

c. Phone (DSN):

d. E-mail:

Note: Please attach image to report if able. If this is not possible, please provide location to
access image.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                            69


                                Attachment 5 (Added-480ISRW)
                UNIDENTIFIED ARTIFACT/ANOMALY REPORT GUIDE

1. Date: Date report submitted.

2. Artifact Description: Provide as much detail as possible regarding the artifact/anomaly, its
appearance and how it affects exploitation.

3. Mission Data for Affected Image: Mission number, mission date, platform, tail number,
sensor, etc.

4. Collection Parameters: Mode image was shot in and any other details the Sensor
Planner/contractor can provide regarding planning and collection.

5. Target Information: Provide information from the target deck, as well as any additional
information or target history that could be applicable.

6. File Name: Please provide file path/file name to facilitate identification.

7. Post Mission Summary: Any pertinent information from the PMS, to include sensor
issues/malfunctions, maintenance or weather issues, etc.

8. Product Exploitation Impact: Details regarding how the artifact/anomaly affected
exploitation capabilities.

9. Exploitation/Collection Mitigation Employed: Any steps taken to mitigate artifact/anomaly
impact to exploitation (i.e. retask, shot from a different angle, software tools, etc.) as well as their
effectiveness at resolving the issue (no improvement, mild improvement, fixed issue, etc.)

10. Resource Checklist: Please check next to all resources that were used in this instance.

a. ____ Compared imaged in question with prior airborne imagery from image archives.

b. ____ Compared image in question with prior NTM from image archives.

c. ____ Referenced U2 ASARS-2A Artifacts and Phenomenology e-book, or other training
materials.

(https://intelink.480isrwglangley.af.smil.mil/DO/IQ/Image_Artifacts/SAR/index_files/index.htm)

d. ____ Referenced “image artifacts” WIKI.

(http://www.intelink.ic.gov/wiki/Airborne_Image_Artifacts,
http://www.intelink.ic.gov/wiki/Image_Artifacts)
e. ____ Verified that no known aircraft or sensor architecture problem existed from Post
Mission Report.
 70                                       AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013



f. ____ Reviewed local weather at time of imagery.

g. ____ Obtained NASIC SME support.

1. Sources Contacted: Provide details and contact information of any outside sources/POCs
contacted in regards to this artifact/anomaly.

2. Additional Comments: Any additional information that is pertinent to the report.

3. POC:

a. Name/Title: Person submitting report

b. Unit/Duty Section: Assigned office and unit of person submitting report

c. Phone (DSN): Best number to reach person submitting report

d. E-mail: Best e-mail address to reach person submitting report

Note: Please provide contact information commiserate with security requirements. For example,
if submitted report is classified SECRET, please provide a SIPR e-mail and SVOIP contact
number. If person submitting report does not have access to these systems, please provide
additional POC and their contact information.
AFISRAI 14-122_480ISRWSUP_I 28 MARCH 2013                                                           71


                               Attachment 6 (Added-480ISRW)
GEOINT IMAGE QUALITY CONTROL STATUS AND TRENDS ANALYSIS REPORT

A2.1. (480ISRW) Quality          Control      statistics    results     for    the     month/year
of: __________________
A2.2. (480ISRW) Total SAR targets exploited: ____________
A2.3. (480ISRW) Total artifacts/anomalies observed: ____________
A2.4. (480ISRW) Total artifacts/anomalies identified: ____________
A2.5. (480ISRW) Artifacts/Anomalies identified, by type: 1. Twizzlers__________
2. Fuzzballs__________

3. Radar Range Streaking__________

4. Azimuth Streaks/Bands__________

5. Defocus__________

6. Illumination Taper__________

7. Low Contrast__________

8. Missing Block__________

9. Uncompensated Sensor Motion__________

10. Urban Saturation__________

11. Other__________
A2.6. (480ISRW) Total unidentified artifacts/anomalies: ____________
A2.7. (480ISRW) Total unidentified artifacts/anomalies resulting in unsatisfied target
status: _______________________________________________________________________
______
Identify any trends by types of artifacts and anomalies, sensor, tail number, mission type, etc.:

______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
Note: Please provide any additional information/details that would be helpful in tracking trends
in the comments section above.
