BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                               INSTRUCTION 31-105
SURVEILLANCE AND
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                                           18 JULY 2012

                                                                                   SECURITY

                                                             FACILITY ESCORT PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A7CM                                                   Certified by: AFISRA/A4/7
                                                                            (Col Eric J. Payne)
Supersedes:   AFISRAI 31-105, 14 April                                                 Pages: 9
              2011


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Physical Security, AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation
Security Program, and DoD 5105.21, Department of Defense, Sensitive Compartmented
Information Administrative Security Manual which relates that non-indoctrinated personnel
entering a Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) facility will be escorted at all times. It
provides standard processes and procedures and sets forth responsibilities for effective
management and control of HQ Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
(AFISRA) Facility Escort Program. This instruction establishes procedures for assigning,
managing and scheduling facility escort program requirements in Buildings 2000 and 2007 at
Lackland Air Force Base, Texas. It applies to all AFISRA units/staff and organizations with
offices located in Buildings 2000 and 2007. It also applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) personnel assigned on extended orders to organizations within
Buildings 2000 and 2007. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Maintain records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
publication in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact
supporting records managers as required.
 2                                                                  AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes scheduling requirements for AFISRA Project Officers overseeing projects
within the AFISRA compound (paragraph 1.8), and minor administrative changes.
1. Policy.
     1.1. The facility escort program facilitates miscellaneous maintenance, repairs and deliveries
     in buildings 2000 and 2007 by uncleared personnel. Success of the program requires the
     combined efforts of unit commanders/staff office directors, unit/staff office facility escort
     monitors, the Facility Management Office (FMO), the Facility Escort Program Manager
     (FEPM), and facility escorts.
     1.2. The FMO is responsible for maintenance of buildings 2000 & 2007 and the FEPM
     program for those facilities.
     1.3. Facility escorts will accompany all uncleared vendors, contractors, and maintenance
     workers who perform renovations, construction, installations, and service requirements in
     common areas of Buildings 2000 and 2007. Examples of escort duty requirements in
     common areas are lawn maintenance, ATM machine, air conditioning/heater maintenance,
     etc. Project escorts are provided by unit/staff offices the project is being accomplished for.
     Escorts will maintain positive control and constant surveillance of uncleared personnel while
     in the SCIF. The number of individuals a facility escort can escort at one time is based on
     the known trustworthiness of the visitors and the ability of the facility escort to reasonably
     control. The number escorted visitors will not exceed eight persons per escort official at any
     time.
     1.4. Facility escort personnel will not support modular furniture installation or office moves.
     Individual unit/staff offices will provide escorts for visitors required for their own projects, to
     include, but not be limited to, renovations, construction, installations, and service
     requirements. The number of escorts required for an individual office project may not be
     subtracted from the number tasked for general facility escorts.
     1.5. Unit/staff offices will provide facility escorts as tasked by the FEPM. Taskings are
     based upon: personnel in the grades of E-6 and below and GG-07/or equivalent DCIPS pay
     band or below who possess either an AFISR 325 (Green Picture) or AFISR 326 (Red Picture)
     badge whose primary place of duty is within building 2000 or 2007. Personnel exempt from
     the strength report are listed in paragraph 1.7.6. Facility escorts are at the discretion of the
     unit/staff office and may be military or civilian in any grade. Escort duty is not restricted to
     the grade levels used to determine quotas. Strength reports are submitted by appointed
     unit/staff office escort monitors to the FEPM. It is the responsibility of the unit escort
     monitor to ensure accurate and timely information is reported.
     1.6. Facility escorts that possess a AFISRA 325, Green Picture badge may escort anywhere
     within the confines of the building 2000 and 2007 compound. Escorts with an AFISRA 326,
     Red Picture badge may escort in the exterior restricted area outside of buildings 2000 and
     2007. They may also escort in building 2000 lobby area or by entering through the courtyard
     doors into the Heritage Center as far as the Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
     cafeteria and back out. Escorts possessing a red entry badge will not enter in other hallway
     of building 2000. Note: Escorts tasked to perform escort duties in possession of a temporary
AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012                                                                      3


  badge may not escort visitors and will require a replacement to be assigned by the unit escort
  monitor.
  1.7. Duty hours.
     1.7.1. Day shift facility escort duty hours for military members are 0700 - 1600, or until
     released by the FMO, whichever is later for military members. Duty hours for unit
     civilian escorts are their normal duty hours; they will remain available for duty for eight
     hours, plus a lunch break. Full-time escorts will relieve detailed escorts upon completion
     of their current escort duties. The FEPM will make every attempt to ensure facility
     escorts are not on duty for an extended period of time. Last minute or emergency facility
     escorting during non-duty hours will be handled on a case-by-case basis. All hours of
     duty are subject to change without notice if mission requires it.
     1.7.2. Evening facility escort duty hours are based on the needs of the uncleared visitors
     and last until escorted personnel depart the compound for the evening. Evening escorts
     will report to the FEPM NLT 1400 of the day assigned. The FEMP will provide the
     escort with the reporting instructions for that evening. If at the time of reporting there is
     no scheduled work, the evening escort will remain on standby status until 0600 hours of
     the next day. Generally, evening escort duty hours should not extend past 12 hours, or
     substantially beyond midnight, but are subject to the needs of the uncleared visitor.
     Civilian employees will not be made to work after duty hours unless the employee agrees
     to the hours and the unit scheduling the civilian employee will pay for the extra hours
     worked.
     1.7.3. Weekend facility escort duty hours are from 0700 and will last until escorted
     personnel depart the compound for the day. Actual hours will be based upon the needs of
     the contractor. Weekend escort hours should not extend substantially beyond 1930 hours.
     Civilian employees will not be made to work on weekends unless the employee agrees to
     the hours and the unit scheduling the civilian employee for weekend escort will pay
     overtime for the extra hours worked.
     1.7.4. Facility escort duty is a mandatory formation for military personnel and all quotas
     will be filled as tasked. Unit commanders/staff office directors will be notified by memo
     when their personnel sign in late or fail to report.
     1.7.5. Uniform requirement for military escorts will be the ABU. Civilians are
     encouraged to wear casual clothing that takes into account environmental and safety
     factors for tasks being assigned.
     1.7.6. The unit commander or staff director may exempt the following individuals from
     their monthly unit/staff office strength reports: shift workers, honor guard members,
     personnel who have not been issued a green or red picture entry badge, personnel on
     temporary duty (TDY) more than 15 consecutive days, personnel on leave more than 15
     consecutive days, military personnel that possess a medical profile which precludes them
     from performing escort duties. All organizations providing facility escorts are required to
     maintain an organizational spreadsheet or other document as indicated in paragraph 2.3.7.
     1.7.7. Requests from escort monitors for exemption for reasons other than those stated in
     paragraph 1.7.6 must be submitted in writing, with appropriate justification, to the
 4                                                               AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012


        Director of Staff (AFISRA/DS). Note: Exemptions, if approved, are allowed only on a
        temporary basis.
        1.7.8. The Civilian Escort Program was approved by the Commander, AFISRA and
        provides seven civilian employees assigned to the FMO for full-time facility escort
        functions within the common areas of buildings 2000 and 2007. Escort taskings will be
        assigned to these employees first then additional escort requirements are assigned to
        military/civilian escorts designated by each organization in accordance with this
        instruction.
     1.8. Requesting Escort Support.
        1.8.1. Project Managers that oversee projects within the common areas of the AFISRA
        compound requiring escort support will provide at least 30 days advanced notice to the
        FEMP. Requests will include project timeline, scope of work, and contractor duty hours
        to allow the FEMP to determine the number of escorts required and develop a schedule
        accordingly.
        1.8.2. For projects of long duration (i.e. one week or longer), project managers will
        provide weekly work schedules at least one week in advance. Any deviations from
        schedules already submitted to the FEPM may result in limited escort availability.
        Project managers must notify the FEPM of any changes to the work schedule
        immediately.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Facility Management Office.
        2.1.1. The FEPM will provide appointed escort monitor or unit commanders/staff office
        directors NLT the 20th of each month, the number of facility escorts required for the
        following month.
        2.1.2. Notify appointed escort monitor or unit commanders/staff office directors, NLT
        1300 on the last duty day of the week, if a weekend/holiday facility escort requirement
        exists. (FEPM will not contact the named escorts to inform them if they have or don’t
        have escort duty).
        2.1.3. Coordinate any last minute or emergency facility escort requirements during non-
        duty hours, as required.
        2.1.4. Provide written notification to unit commanders/staff office directors when one of
        their appointed facility escorts reports late or fails to report for duty.
        2.1.5. Provide a sign-in roster for facility escorts and ensure they understand their escort
        responsibilities and prohibited item requirements.
        2.1.6. Provide a safety briefing to each escort.
        2.1.7. Assign each facility escort the appropriate equipment as needed for the day.
        2.1.8. Assign taskings as facility escorts become available to fill existing requirements.
        Issue appropriate safety items if necessary.
AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012                                                                    5


     2.1.9. Notify the unit/staff escort monitor when there is a no-show NLT 0900.
     Document the day the no-show occurred or the next duty day for escorts performing
     evening or weekend escorts.
     2.1.10. Provide safety checks on escorts periodically throughout the duty day paying
     particular attention to those working on the roof or in the tunnel. A tracking log will be
     maintained and kept on file by the FEPM to document completed safety checks.
     2.1.11. Ensure all escorts are protected from the elements by having umbrellas, portable
     chairs, and water containers available for their use in the outside areas of the restricted
     area.
     2.1.12. Appropriate safety equipment will be issued to all escorts as required by safety
     regulations. All personnel entering the tunnel area beneath building 2000 must wear a
     hard hat.
  2.2. Unit Commanders/Staff Office Directors.
     2.2.1. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate facility escort monitor. Furnish a copy
     of the appointment memo to the FEPM.
  2.3. Unit/Staff Office Facility Escort Monitors.
     2.3.1. Ensure appointed facility escorts return issued equipment. In the event of loss,
     damage or destruction of equipment ensure AF Form 1168, Statement of Loss is
     accomplished. Unit/staff offices/individuals may be responsible for replacement cost of
     equipment.
     2.3.2. Ensure personnel assigned to facility escort duty are aware of sign-in and
     availability requirements and ensure escorts are aware of escort procedures.
     2.3.3. Assign a qualified substitute when a scheduled facility escort does not report or
     cannot meet the facility escort tasking because of duty or emergency requirements.
     Coordinate with FEPM when there is an emergency or substitution requirement.
     2.3.4. Provide FEPM a strength report, by the 20th of each month, of all unit/staff office
     military/civilian personnel (E-6/GG-07 and below), to include Reservists who are on
     extended orders or have been recalled to active duty, with green or red picture entry
     badge available for duty the next month when there is a change to the strength report.
     Personnel listed in paragraph 1.7.6 may be excluded from the strength report.
     2.3.5. Provide the FEPM names of escorts for afternoon, evening, and weekend/holiday
     escorts. For weekend/holiday escorts, provide the escort’s home phone number and
     supervisor’s name (or alternate contact) and home phone number. All information must
     be submitted NLT 1200 hours on the first day of the new monthly schedule.
     2.3.6. Maintain a spreadsheet or other document that contains information on all
     personnel that meet the grade requirements for escort duty (E-6/GG-07 and below).
     Information that should be included, but not limited to, is rank/grade, name, if person is
     present for duty or exempt and reason for exemption. The commander or director will
     certify the spreadsheet or other document each month.
     2.3.7. The unit/staff office escort monitor or the escort’s chain of command must handle
     all scheduling conflicts. The FEPM will not settle individual escort scheduling issues.
6                                                              AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012


    2.4. Facility Escort Personnel.
       2.4.1. Military escorts will report to the FMO, building 2001, and sign in for duty IAW
       the duty hours outlined in paragraph 1.7. Civilian escorts will report to the FMO at the
       start of their normal duty hours to sign in for escort duties. They will not be tasked for
       more than eight hours and should not agree to escort personnel past this time unless
       approved by the FEPM.
       2.4.2. Report to work center after signing in unless immediately tasked to perform
       facility escort duty. Weekend/holiday escorts will sign in and wait for the contractor at
       the Security Forces Entry Control Point at building 2001 (escort will not go to their duty
       section to wait for contractors). If the contractor fails to show after one hour of the
       appointed time, the escort is relieved of tasking. The escort will notify his/her escort
       monitor the next duty day of the contractor failing to show. Escort monitors will in turn
       notify the FEPM.
       2.4.3. Do not leave the general vicinity of the AFISRA restricted area compound, to
       include lunch breaks, without coordinating with the FEPM. Escorts must be able to
       report to the FMO within 10 minutes of notification to report. Failure to report to the
       FMO within a timely manner will cause undue delays and will be reported to the unit
       commander/staff office director for appropriate action.
       2.4.4. Do not leave a facility escort assignment without authority from the FMO.
       Leaving assigned escort assignment without authority will be reported to the unit
       commander/staff office director for appropriate action.
       2.4.5. While performing escort duty, if at any time an escort feels he/she is in an unsafe
       environment, the escort should bring the uncleared visitors back to the FMO in an
       attempt to resolve the situation.
       2.4.6. When performing facility escort duty, lunch breaks will correspond with personnel
       being escorted. If the escorted personnel do not stop for lunch, contact the FMO to
       request a replacement to be sent. If unable to contact the FMO, return escorted personnel
       to the FMO for a replacement.
       2.4.7. At the end of assigned duty all issued equipment will be returned to the FMO.
       Entry credentials for uncleared visitors will be returned to the issuing agency. If the
       FMO is closed, facility escort personnel will maintain possession of the equipment issued
       and return it to the FMO the next duty day. Missing/damaged equipment may result in
       the unit being held responsible for replacement costs. Note: Equipment and entry
       credentials will not be left with Security Forces personnel at the entry control point.
       Ensure when returning equipment obtained by using an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue
       Receipt request that the original copy is returned to you.
       2.4.8. Reading materials are authorized provided the escort maintains proper visibility
       and control of the escorted personnel at all times.
       2.4.9. Report any misconduct by escorted personnel to the FEPM immediately. If at any
       time personnel under escort attempt to gain entry into areas they are not authorized or
       cannot be controlled, declare an emergency situation and have personnel in the
       immediate area contact Security Forces.
AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012                                                                 7


     2.4.10. Notify unit/staff office facility escort monitor in advance if unable to perform
     facility escort duty because of scheduled leave, TDY, appointment, luncheon, sick call,
     etc.
     2.4.11. Coordinate with unit/staff office facility escort monitor when mission
     requirements or an emergency prohibits performance of facility escort duties.




                                         ROBERT P. OTTO, Maj Gen, USAF
                                         Commander
 8                                                       AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2007
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
DoD 5105.21-M-1, Department of Defense, Sensitive Compartmented Information
Administrative Security Manual, August 1998
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1168, Statement of Loss
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
AFISRA Form 325, Entry Credential-Green
AFISRA Form 326, Entry Credential-Red

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
FEPM—Facility Escort Program Manager
FMO—Facility Management Office
IAW—In Accordance With
NLT—Not Later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
VCC—Visitor Control Center
AFISRAI31-105 18 JULY 2012                          9


                             Attachment 2
                   SAMPLE TEMPORARY ISSUE RECEIPT
