BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                                        10-202
SURVEILLANCE AND
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                                           1 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                      Operations

                                                   CONTINGENCY RESPONSE TEAM FOR
                                                           AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE,
                                                 SURVEILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE
                                                                   AGENCY (AFISRA)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A3OI                                       Certified by: AFISRA/A3 (Colonel Joseph
                                                                                  T. DiNuovo)
Supersedes:    AFISRAI 10-202, 21                                                     Pages: 7
               February 2008


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, and establishes procedures and guidelines
for establishing a Contingency Response Team (CRT) for Headquarters Air Force Intelligence,
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Agency (AFISRA). This instruction applies to AFISRA
Directorates and Staff Offices only. This instruction does not apply to AFISRA subordinate
organizations, or AFISRA-gained Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve units. Security Hill
tenants (Joint Information Operations Warfare Center (JIOWC), 688th Intelligence Operations
Wing, AFOSI, 67th Network Warfare Wing, and 24th Air Force) are welcomed to participate to
ensure situational awareness. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Maintain records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in
this directory in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose
of them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect updated guidelines and procedures. In this revision, Crisis
Action Team (CAT) was changed to Contingency Response Team (CRT); in reference to the
relationship of the Crisis Action Team (CAT) and ICC, states there will be only one “CAT” per
 2                                                          AFISRAI10-202 1 AUGUST 2011


base; with the establishment of Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA), AETC/A3 eliminated the term
CAT to describe the command & control functions within the Agency during contingencies as
AFISRA/CC deems necessary.
1. Situation. For all contingencies involving US military forces, the Department of Defense
relies on a secure worldwide network of facilities, staffs, and communications systems to provide
assured command and control of military forces, materiel, and activities. As part of that
command and control network, AFISRA plays a critical role in the preparation, execution,
sustainment, and reconstitution activities across the entire spectrum of contingencies from
natural disasters to general war. AFISRA must be able to focus any or all of its resources in
support of contingency operations. The AFISRA Commander (CC) will activate the
Contingency Response Team (CRT) as required; Security Hill tenants will be invited. This plan
also incorporates Emergency Management (EM) planning requirements for AFISRA.
2. Mission. The responsibility of the Contingency Response Team is to provide timely,
integrated support to the Commander, AFISRA, for the execution of command and control
responsibilities. The CRT Staff directs actions supporting AFISRA's mission from local area to
world-wide scenarios. As the focal point for Agency-wide notification and operation, the CRT
Staff receives and sends orders, information, and requests pertinent to the assigned task. They
will ensure command and control for AFISRA resources in response to a variety of peacetime
and wartime contingencies that include, but are not limited to: limited or total war, changes in
Force Protection Condition (FPCON), natural disaster, major accident response, and resource
protection issues. CRT operations will be established and conducted as needed, at the direction
of the Commander, AFISRA.
3. Execution. The AFISRA Emergency Action Plan (EAP) contains the actions required for
many types of contingencies. Refer to the appropriate annex of the EAP for CRT activities and
appropriate follow-up actions.       The EAP is available digitally on SIPRNet at
(http://www.afisra.af.smil.mil/homepage/a58/a8y/plans.cfm)          and      JWICS          at
(http://www.afisra.ic.gov/homepages/cat).
4. Contingency Response Team.
     4.1. The Commander’s Senior Staff will consist of the Commander (chair), Vice
     Commander, Executive Director, Director of Staff, and A-Staff Directors/deputies and/or
     designated representatives that are knowledgeable of Directorate operations and
     responsibilities. The Command Duty Office (CDO) will maintain a list of primary Senior
     Staff members. The Commander, Air Force ISR Agency will designate an individual to
     serve as the Commander’s Senior Staff Chief. The composition of the Commander’s Senior
     Staff may be tailored to the specific situation by the Commander’s Senior Staff Chief.
     4.2. CRT members must be knowledgeable and capable of keeping abreast of complex
     situations, anticipating potential requirements, providing advice, and directing tasks to
     enhance the Agency’s ability to meet requirements.
     4.3. The primary CRT location is at the Schulte Video Teleconferencing Center, Room 219.
     Alternate locations are listed in the EAP, COOP Phase I, or as directed by CC.
5. Contingency Response Team Chief.
AFISRAI10-202 1 AUGUST 2011                                                                      3


   5.1. The CRT Chief is designated by the AFISRA Commander and represents the
   Commander for tasking and information during on-going crises or contingencies and is
   responsible for directing all CRT actions in response to a crisis or higher headquarters’
   taskings. The CRT Chief, in concert with the senior staff, will approve all issues, changes to
   procedures, concepts, execution-planning considerations, or taskings to outside agencies. The
   CRT Chief, as the Commander’s direct representative, has tasking authority over all CRT
   personnel during emergencies operations. Additional support may be pulled from other
   Directorates and functional communities within AFISRA to support the CRT. The CRT
   Chief will:
       5.1.1. Present required situation and shift-change briefings.
       5.1.2. Manage the CRT Staff by providing policy, direction and determining staffing
       levels.
       5.1.3. Coordinate activities with other agencies to expedite the crisis action process.
       5.1.4. Notify the Commander immediately of significant events or message traffic
       requiring priority action.
       5.1.5. Release outgoing messages and screen incoming messages.
       5.1.6. Advise the Commander when to deactivate the CRT.
       5.1.7. Provide information and support to the Agency’s Mission Partner Team (MPT)
       representative to facilitate the reporting of personnel status and the impact the crisis and
       response actions are having on the Agency mission.
6. Contingency Response Team Executive Officer (referred as CRT Executive).
   6.1. The Commander’s CRT Executive (CRT Exec) is designated by the CRT Chief. The
   CRT Exec will be in the grade of E-8, O-3/O-4, and will have a minimum of six months on
   station with a retainability of at least one year. The Director of Staff (DS) office will
   maintain a list of eligible personnel to serve as CRT Exec. The DS will determine the
   required training necessary for personnel to be considered as eligible for the position. The
   CRT Exec will:
       6.1.1. Ensure that briefings are prepared and delivered on time.
       6.1.2. Ensure that briefing times are published to the CRT Staff and the AFISRA staff.
       6.1.3. Follow standard CRT templates maintained in the CRT Exec book for briefing.
       6.1.4. Ensure that tasking suspenses are completed on time.
       6.1.5. Hold checklists for each scenario and update them every quarter to ensure
       accuracy.
       6.1.6. Advise CRT Chief of current status; review each step in the reaction checklist.
       6.1.7. Advise the CRT Chief when next status is attained in the response checklist.
       6.1.8. Assist the CRT Chief with posting/updating event log as information changes and
       prior to scheduling the CRT meeting.
7. Recall or Notification of Personnel.
4                                                         AFISRAI10-202 1 AUGUST 2011


    7.1. When a situation requires recall or notification of AFISRA personnel, the recall is
    initiated at the direction of the AFISRA/CC, and/or designated representative through the
    CDO Office.




                                           BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
AFISRAI10-202 1 AUGUST 2011                                                         5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24 January
2007
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 October 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 October 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CDO—Command Duty Office
COOP—Continuity of Operations
CRT—Contingency Response Team
DS—Director of Staff
EAP—Emergency Action Plan
EM—Emergency Management
EXEC—Executive Officer
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
JBSA—Joint Base San Antonio
JIOWC—Joint Information Operations Warfare Center
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Information Communications System
NIPRNET—Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
NASIC—National Air & Space Intelligence Center
 6                                                             AFISRAI10-202 1 AUGUST 2011


Terms
Crisis—An incident or situation involving a threat to a nation, its territories, citizens, military
forces, possessions, or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates a condition of such
diplomatic, economic, political, or military importance that commitment of military forces and
resources is contemplated to achieve national objectives.
Contingency Response Team—A Command and Control function normally activated for a
specific incident to oversee the mission operation of the installation.
Contingency—An emergency involving military forces caused by natural disasters, terrorists,
subversives, or by required military operations. Due to the uncertainty of the situation,
contingencies require plans, rapid response and special procedures to ensure the safety and
readiness of personnel, installations, and equipment.
Emergency Management (EM)—The single, integrated Air Force program to coordinate and
organize efforts to prepare for, prevent, respond to, recover from, and mitigate the direct and
indirect consequences of an emergency or attack. The primary missions of the Air Force EM
program are to (1) save lives, (2) minimize the loss or degradation of resources, and (3) continue,
sustain, and restore combat and combat support operational capability in an all-hazards physical
threat environment at Air Force installations worldwide. The ancillary missions of the Air Force
EM program are to support homeland defense and civil support operations and to provide
support to civil and host nation authorities IAW DOD directives and through the appropriate
Combatant Command. The Air Force EM program is managed by the Office of The Civil
Engineer, AF/A7C.
Force Protection (FP)—Actions taken to prevent or mitigate hostile actions against Department
of Defense personnel (to include family members), resources, facilities, and critical information.
These actions conserve the force's fighting potential so it can be applied at the decisive time and
place and incorporate the coordinated and synchronized offensive and defensive measures to
enable the effective employment of the joint force while degrading opportunities for the enemy.
Force protection does not include actions to defeat the enemy or protect against accidents,
weather, or disease. Also called FP. (JP 1-02) [An integrated application of offensive and
defensive actions that deter, detect, pre-empt, mitigate, or negate threats against or hazards to Air
Force air and space operations and assets, based on an acceptable level of risk.] (Definition in
brackets applies only to the Air Force and is offered for clarity.)
Command Duty Office—The CDO is the communications focal point for the Air Force
ISR Agency support and participation in local exercises and real world events initiated by the
Joint Base San Antonio Command Post (CP), Battle Staff or HAF.
Natural Disaster—An emergency situation posing significant danger to life and property that
results from a natural cause.
Major Accident—An accident involving DoD materiel or DoD activities that is serious enough
to warrant response by the installation Disaster Response Forces. It differs from the minor day-
to-day emergencies and incidents that installation agencies typically handle
Mission Partner Team— A team made up of representatives from the tenant units on a base.
Base leadership and emergency management work with the MPT to disseminate crisis and
AFISRAI10-202 1 AUGUST 2011                                                                      7


exercise information to tenant units and to collect information from tenant units concerning crisis
response and mission impacts.
