BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                                       31-402
SURVEILLANCE AND
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                                             29 JULY 2011

                                                                                        Security

                                               DISINTEGRATION AND DESTRUCTION OF
                                                    CLASSIFIED MATERIAL AND MEDIA
                                                                      DEGAUSSING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A6 DET4SCVS                                    Certified by: AFISRA/A6 (Col Eric J.
                                                                                       Pierce)
Supersedes:   AFISRAI 31-402, 17 March                                               Pages: 7
              2008


This instruction implements AFPD 31-4, Information Security and AFI 31-401, Information
Security Program Management. It provides guidance for the destruction of classified and
sensitive unclassified material. It also provides guidelines for the data removal from magnetic
storage devices (i.e., hard drives and magnetic tapes utilizing the HD-1T Bulk Degausser prior to
turn-in to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Organization (DRMO) or local government
recycling center; and compact discs (CD) utilizing the Security Engineered Machinery (SEM)
Model-2). It applies to all internal and external customers of the Air Force Intelligence,
Reconnaissance and Surveillance Agency (AFISRA) Document Disintegration System (DDS)
facility, building 2000, to include, but not limited to AFISRA staff offices, collocated units,
tenant units, AFISRA subordinate units in the San Antonio area, and AFISRA-gained Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve units. This instruction immediately applies to any
AFISRA activity that operates, or will operate, a DDS facility or employs the use of degaussing
and declassifying equipment. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Maintain records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in
this directory in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose
of them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.
 2                                                                  AFISRAI31-402 29 JULY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision outlines operational procedures for the destruction of classified and sensitive
unclassified material.   It implements procedures for the Information System Security
Manager/Officer (ISSM)/(ISSO) and/or the Information Technology Asset Management
Equipment Custodians (EC) in the utilization of the HD-IT Bulk Degausser and the Security
Engineered Machinery (SEM) 2 for the proper sanitation and disposition of classified magnetic
media, hard drive and compact discs.
1. Disintegration Responsibilities.
     1.1. AFISRA/A6 DET 4/SVCS will:
        1.1.1. Supervise all DDS operations.
        1.1.2. Inspect DDS operations to ensure compliance with governing directives.
        1.1.3. Advise using agency chiefs when their activities violate procedures, so corrective
        action can be taken.
        1.1.4. Ensure that a user education program is in effect.
     1.2. Users will:
        1.2.1. Ensure that only paper products are placed in bags with an affixed AFISRA Form
        3, Paper Waste Bag label and plastic products are placed in bags with an affixed AFISRA
        Form 4, Plastic Waste Bag label.
            1.2.1.1. Place only the internal magnetic media in the ―PLASTIC‖ DDS bags (media
            is removed from the casing, placed in DDS bag and the outer casing is discarded as
            regular trash). Security classification markings must be removed from the casings
            prior to being discarded as regular trash. Users must hand-carry plastic waste to the
            DDS facility and give to DDS personnel (do not use the chutes for plastic material).
        1.2.2. Remove all metal objects (i.e., fasteners, clips, staples, etc.) before placing
        material in bags identified for the DDS facility.
        1.2.3. Verify that objects such as staplers, staple removers, scissors, keys, letter openers,
        etc, have not been inadvertently placed inside of the bag. Use other designated facilities
        for disposal of office trash. The DDS is not a general refuse facility.
        1.2.4. Prepare an AF Form 310, Document Receipt and Certificate of Destruction; AF
        Form 143, Top Secret Register Page, or AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt and Destruction
        Certificate; if required before putting material in bags destined for the DDS. In item 10,
        AF Form 310, select ―committed to central destruction facility on‖ for material being
        destroyed by the DDS staff. Certifying and witnessing officials are not required to be
        present when their material is destroyed. DDS personnel do not provide receipts for
        classified material delivered for disintegration.
        1.2.5. Use the drop chutes, located on second and third floors, for lightweight ―PAPER
        ONLY‖ bags. Do not drop heavy or bulky bags into the chute because the bags may
        burst on impact and create an additional, unnecessary workload. Do not use the chutes to
        drop ―PLASTIC ONLY‖ bags; hand carry ―PLASTIC ONLY‖ bags to the DDS facility.
AFISRAI31-402 29 JULY 2011                                                                       3


       1.2.6. Deliver special project material to the DDS by appointment only. Call the DDS
       operators at extension 977-2610 if this material requires additional disintegration service.
       1.2.7. Ensure using agency chiefs take the necessary corrective action, to include
       disciplinary actions (if needed), to prevent unauthorized material from being placed in
       DDS bags. This action ensures the safety of DDS personnel and provides a trouble-free
       operation of the DDS facility.
       1.2.8. Organizations located outside buildings 2000 and 2007 will deliver their
       classified/sensitive waste paper and plastic products to the DDS by the most appropriate
       means. Classified DDS bags must be transported in a covered vehicle by an authorized
       courier.
       1.2.9. Label all bags destined for the DDS facility using the AFISRA Form 3 or AFISRA
       Form 4, whichever is applicable.
       1.2.10. When the doors to the chutes are locked or when the DDS facility is temporarily
       closed, do not leave DDS bags unattended in the halls by the chutes or DDS facility.
       Secure your DDS bags until the DDS facility or chutes are reopened.
       1.2.11. COMSEC custodians must remain with their material to adhere to COMSEC
       material destruction requirements.
2. Degaussing Responsibilities.
   2.1. AFISRA/A6 DET 4/SVCS will:
       2.1.1. Provide degaussing equipment capability for the Information System Security
       Office (ISSO), the Information System Security Manager (ISSM) and Equipment
       Custodian (EC) as customers of the DDS.
       2.1.2. Provide access to the degausser and document training/instructions on how to
       degauss hard drives.
   2.2. The ISSM/ISSOs, Equipment Custodian (EC).
       2.2.1. May be accompanied by the ISSM/ISSO and/or the Information Technology Asset
       Management EC for the account of the equipment being sanitized to assist in the
       degaussing process. This will ensure strict custody of the material at all times.
       2.2.2. Will contact the AFISRA/A6 DET 4/SVCS, 977-2610 to make an appointment to
       degauss magnetic storage media. The ISSM/ISSOs, ECs will transport only hard drives
       that can be degaussed by the HD-IT Bulk Degausser as indicated on the annual NSA
       Product Listing. Remove the metal shielding or mounting bracket material, which may
       interfere with magnetic fields, from the hard drives. Do not remove the platters from the
       hard drives.
       2.2.3. Will transport media for degaussing on Monday – Friday. DDS personnel will
       allow ISSM/ISSO, EC’s transporting material for degaussing access to the HD-IT Bulk
       Degausser.
   2.3. DDS Operators will:
       2.3.1. Follow existing directives and operating instructions for the operation and
       maintenance of the DDS facility.
 4                                                             AFISRAI31-402 29 JULY 2011


        2.3.2. Accept material according to established procedures.
        2.3.3. Segregate, store, and destroy the material according to applicable security
        directives.
        2.3.4. Provide training on the use of the HD-1T Degausser to each ISSM/ISSO, EC’s as
        required.
        2.3.5. Notify Chief, Communications Section when unauthorized materials are
        discovered in classified waste bags. The Chief, Communications Section will have the
        prerogative to inform higher echelon personnel of any negative trends that might
        jeopardize the safety of DDS personnel or cause damage to the equipment.
        2.3.6. Separate the microfiche for central shipping to the National Security Agency
        (NSA).
        2.3.7. Take apart and ship to NSA for disposal magnetic tapes that do not fit into the
        cavity of the degausser or the HD-IT Bulk Degausser.
        2.3.8. Personnel will offer degaussing and destruction services to customers on a case-
        by-case basis. DDS operators will accept hard drives from customers and will degauss
        and destroy hard drives using prescribed methods.
3. Procedures for the ISSM/ISSO.
     3.1. CDs/DVDs.
        3.1.1. Place CDs and DVDs into destruction bags with AFISRA Form 4 identifying them
        as ―PLASTIC‖ waste prior to delivering to the DDS facility.
        3.1.2. Hand deliver plastic waste bags to DDS personnel (do not use the chutes).
        3.1.3. Do not place any other type of material in plastic waste bags. DDS personnel will
        properly dispose of contents.
     3.2. Hard Drives.
        3.2.1. Remove and discard all steel shielding materials from the hard drives (i.e.,
        cabinets, casings, and mounting brackets) prior to degaussing. Platters and plastic need
        not be removed for degaussing.
        3.2.2. Remove the platter for degaussing in the rare event that the need arise to degauss
        drives larger than 3.5 inches (from a very old computer). The degausser will degauss
        hard drives 3.5 inches or smaller.
        3.2.3. The individual(s) degaussing will count and document the total weight of the hard
        drive prior to placing in degausser.
        3.2.4. Remove any classified stickers prior to placing a completed AFISRA Form 5,
        Degaussing Label, on each degaussed hard drive prior to removing degaussed hard drives
        from DDS upon completion of the degaussing procedure. Review at least one percent of
        total sanitized hard drives for media as a representative sampling.
        3.2.5. DDS staff will maintain stock of blank AFISRA Form 5 labels.
     3.3. Magnetic Tapes. The tape will be sent to NSA for disposal.
AFISRAI31-402 29 JULY 2011                                                                5


  3.4. Computer/Printer Memory Chips/Memory Sticks. All computer/printer memory
  chips must be transported to the DDS in a properly labeled classified container or bag for
  return to NSA for destruction, as required.
  3.5. Toner Print Cartridges: Toner print cartridges must be cleared IAW ICD 705. If
  unable to remove residual from the cartridge drum, transport cartridge to the DDS in a
  properly labeled classified container or bag for return to NSA for destruction.
  3.6. Circuit Boards. Classified Virtual Private Network (VPN) must be returned to NSA
  for destruction.




                                         BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                                         AFISRAI31-402 29 JULY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 September 1998
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 19 November 1993
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 11 November 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
AFISRA Form 5, Degaussing Label
Adopted Forms
AF Form 143, Top Secret Register Page
AF Form 310, Document Receipt and Certificate of Destruction
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt and Destruction Certificate
AFISRA Form 3, Paper Waste Bag Label
AFISRA Form 4, Plastic Waste Bag Label

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
CD—Compact Disc
COMSEC—Communications Security
CPSD—Cryptologic System Division
DDS—Document Disintegration System
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Organization
DVD—Digital Video Disc
EC—Equipment Custodian
HD—High Density
IOG—Information Operations Group
ISS—Intelligence Support Squadron
ISSM—Information System Security Manager
ISSO—Information System Security Officer
JIOWC—Joint Information Operations Warfare Center
AFISRAI31-402 29 JULY 2011                                                                      7


NSA—National Security Agency
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROM—Read Only Memory
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SEM—Security Engineered Machinery
VPN—Virtual Private Network

Terms
Document Disintegration System—The DDS, operated by the AFISRA/A6 DET 4/SVCS,
executes the destruction of classified and unclassified material. The DDS facility is located in
building 2000 (Ardisana Hall), Suites 139 A/B/C. The DDS is responsible for the destruction of
all classified and unclassified waste originating at AFISRA activities in the San Antonio
metropolitan area. The DDS also executes the destruction of classified and unclassified material
waste for other United States government agencies in the surrounding area. DDS personnel
operate an industrial type pulper ensuring proper destruction of sensitive, classified and
unclassified material according to NSA standards and federal law.
Paper Waste—Material (classified and unclassified) in paper form placed in the appropriately
marked DDS bag identified for disintegration by mechanical means. All administrative paper
products such as working papers, notes, etcetera, located in open storage areas, SCI – working
areas or facilities will be protected and destroyed as classified waste.
Plastic Waste—Material (classified and unclassified) in plastic form (i.e., CDs, DVDs, floppy
disk magnetic media, typewriter ribbons, cassette tapes, etc.), identified for disintegration by
mechanical means.
Special Project Material—Collateral material requiring special handling such as North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO); Special Category (SPECAT); Special Access Programs/Required
(SAP/SAR); JCS, Single Integrated Operational Plan – Extremely Sensitive Information (SIOP-
ESI); and collateral Top Secret. When certifying and witnessing officials are required to destroy
special project material, the officials must hand-carry the material to the DDS.
Classified Waste Drop Chutes—These chutes transport classified material bags directly to the
DDS. They are located in building 2000, Suites 251B and 339, next to the elevator entrances on
the second and third floors, respectively. The chutes are open from 0700 to 1530, Monday
through Friday. However, the DDS operates from 0700 to 1600, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday; and accepts material for disintegration on these days until 1600. On Wednesday, the
DDS closes at 1200 for general maintenance and suspends all services to the customer until 0700
Thursday.
Degaussing and Declassifying Magnetic Storage Devices—The process for the data removal
from magnetic storage devices (i.e., hard drives, CD-ROMs, DVDs, and magnetic tapes)
utilizing the HD-1T Bulk Degausser prior to turn in of eligible items to the Defense Reutilization
and Marketing Organization (DRMO) or destruction using SEM Model 0300.
