BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                    AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION 63-102
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEILLANCE AND                                                             28 OCTOBER 2010
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                        Certified Current 14 November 2012
                                                                                     Acquisition

                                                          TECHNICAL DATA MANAGEMENT




            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATIONS IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A4R                                                      Certified by: AFISRA/A4/7
                                                                         (Colonel Eric J. Payne)
                                                                                        Pages: 5


This instruction prescribes Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
(AFISRA) policy for the acquisition and management of contractor-prepared technical data and
indentifies roles and responsibilities as part of the Agency’s technical data management program.
The instruction implements DoD 5010.12-M, Procedures for the Acquisition and Management of
Technical Data. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned to AFISRA Staff Offices,
subordinate Centers, and Wings. It does not apply to AFISRA gained Air National Guard or Air
Force Reserve units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required.

1. Technical Data Management Policy. AFISRA program/acquisition organizations will
incorporate data call requirements (i.e. Contract Data Requirements List) in acquisition
documents, as required by DoD Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS); DoD
5010.12-M, Procedures for the Acquisition and Management of Technical Data; and, MIL-STD-
963B, Data Item Description. The types of data to which this instruction applies includes,
technical, management, financial, administrative, computer software, logistical and other data as
 2                                                         AFISRAI63-102 28 OCTOBER 2010


it pertains to study, development, demonstration, production, sustainment and performance-
based contracts.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFISRA, Logistics Readiness Division (A4R) will:
        2.1.1. Serve as the Agency’s Technical Data Manager and single Point of Contact (POC)
        for technical data management policy and guidance.
        2.1.2. Assist program/acquisition office personnel with inquiries regarding the
        incorporation of technical data management into their program management planning.
        2.1.3. Review Statements of Objectives (SOO), Statements of Work (SOW) and
        Performance Work Statements (PWS) for the identification of all technical data, as
        requested by program/acquisition organizations.
        2.1.4. Assist program/acquisition office personnel in the selection or identification of
        appropriate Data Item Descriptions (DIDs), utilizing the Acquisition Streamlining and
        Standardization      Information     System   (ASSIST)     web      site   at      URL:
        http://assist.daps.dla.mil/online/start/.
        2.1.5. Review, endorse, and assign numbers to newly proposed or ―One Time‖ requests;
        and, submit proposed drafts to Headquarters AF Material Command, Technical Data
        Management Representative for coordination and processing.
        2.1.6. Assist and provide training to program/acquisition office personnel in preparing
        and revising DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL). CDRL
        electronic             forms              are             available             on-line.
        (http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/formsprogram.htm)
        2.1.7. Appoint Technical Data Management Officers for internal or external AFISRA
        affiliated organizations as needs arise.
     2.2. AFISRA Staff Program/Acquisition Organizations will:
        2.2.1. Prepare SOO, SOW or PWS for the procurement of systems, products or services
        (reference current MIL-HDBK-245 for additional SOO/SOW information or AFI 63-124,
        Performance Based-Services Acquisition for PWS information).
        2.2.2. Identify the essential contractor-prepared technical data requirements related to the
        SOO/SOW/PWS work tasks.
        2.2.3. Select the appropriate DID, utilizing approved DIDs listed in ASSIST
        (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/online/start/) to assure the acquisition and intended use of
        required contractor-prepared data.
        2.2.4. Forward new DID requests to AFISRA/A4R for review, coordination, and
        processing.
        2.2.5. Ensure the SOO, SOW or PWS supports technical data requirements. The
        SOO/SOW/PWS must define, either directly or reference to DIDs, all required
        contractor-prepared technical data resulting from work tasks.
AFISRAI63-102 28 OCTOBER 2010                                                              3


      2.2.6. Prepare CDRLs IAW DoD 5010.12-M, Procedures for the Acquisition and
      Management of Technical Data – ensuring all deliverable data are prescribed and
      applicable SOO, SOW or PWS paragraphs are cross referenced.
      2.2.7. Coordinate with designated on-site contract oversight personnel regarding the
      relevance of contractor performance/deliverable compliance verification mechanisms
      associated with the acquisition approach and associated deliverables (CDRLs, DIDs,
      etc.).
   2.3. AFISRA Centers, Wings, or Groups, when applicable, will:
      2.3.1. Designate a central focal point for implementation and management of a technical
      data management program and forward designee’s office symbol, contact numbers and e-
      mail address(s) to AFISRA/A4R.
      2.3.2. Center, Wing, or Group designees are responsible for ensuring that:
          2.3.2.1. SOOs and SOWs for the procurement of systems, products or services are
          prepared IAW MIL-HDBK-245D or current version; and PWS are prepared IAW
          AFI 63-124.
          2.3.2.2. Approved DIDs listed in ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/online/start/)
          are selected for the acquisition of required contractor-prepared data.
          2.3.2.3. CDRLs are prepared and managed IAW DoD 5010.12-M.
          2.3.2.4. Requests for new DIDs are forwarded to the AFISRA/A4R for review,
          coordination, and processing.

3. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List.




                                           BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                                      AFISRAI63-102 28 OCTOBER 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 63-124, Performance Based-Services Acquisition, 1 August 2005
DoD 5010.12-M, Procedures for the Acquisition and Management of Technical Data, 14 May
1993
DoD 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement (DFARS), 4 September 1998
MIL-HDBK-245, Preparation of Statement of Work (SOW), 3 April 1996
MIL-STD-963, DoD Standard Practice, Data Item Descriptions, 31 August 1997
Useful Web Links
Acquisition Community Connection – Data Management:
https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=17619&lang=en-US
Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System (ASSIST):
http://assist.daps.dla.mil/online/start/
DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL):
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/formsprogram.htm

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ASSIST—Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System
CDRL—Contract Data Requirements List
DID—Date Item Description
DoD—Department of Defense
POC—Point of Contact
PWS—Performance Work Statement
SOO—Statement of Objectives
SOW—Statement of Work

Terms
Acquisition—The acquiring by contract, with appropriate funds, of supplies or services by and
for the use of the Government that are already in existence or should be created, developed,
demonstrated, and evaluated. This may include the conceptualization, initiation, design,
development, test, contracting, production, deployment, logistics support, modification and
disposals of weapons and other systems, supplies or services (including construction) to satisfy
DoD needs, intended for use in or in support of military missions.
AFISRAI63-102 28 OCTOBER 2010                                                                     5


Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System (ASSIST)—The ASSIST
is a database system for DoD-wide standardization document information; and is the official
source of DoD specifications and standards. The database provides online, interactive listing of
source documents and Data Item Description that DoD has approved for repetitive contractual
application.
Contract—A mutually binding legal relationship that obligates the seller to furnish the supplies
or services and the buyer to pay for them. It includes all types of commitments that obligate the
Government to an expenditure of appropriated funds that, except as otherwise authorized, are in
writing. In addition to bilateral instruments, contracts include (but are not limited to) awards and
notices of awards; job orders or task letters under basic ordering agreements; letter contracts;
orders, such as purchase orders, under which the contract becomes effective by written
acceptance or performance; and bilateral contract modifications.
Contract Data Requirement List (CDRL), DD Form 1423—The standard format for
identifying potential data requirements in a solicitation, and deliverable data items in a contract.
Contractor—An individual or organization outside the government which has accepted any type
of agreement or order for providing research, supplies, or services to a government agency.
Data—Recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics.
Data Item Description (DID)—A completed document that defines the data required of a
contractor. The document specifically defines the data content, format, and intended use as
applicable to a single data document.
Data Management—The process of applying policies, procedures, and tools for the
identification and control of data requirements, for assuring the adequacy of data and for
facilitating the timely, economical acquisition and availability of data, including digital delivery
or access.
Program/Acquisition Organization— Any DoD official organization having acquisition
authority for defense systems, products or services and responsible for determining contract and
data requirements for their acquisition(s).
