BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      AFISRA INSTRUCTION 35-101
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEILLANCE AND                                                                   12 JULY 2013
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY
                                                                                   Public Affairs

                                                                    PUBLIC NOTIFICATIONS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/PA                                                         Certified by: AFISRA/PA
                                                                              (Ms. Marcia Klein)
Supersedes:    AFISRAI 35-101, 8                                                        Pages: 7
               September 2010


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 35-1, Public Affairs
Management. This instruction sets forth the policy, responsibilities and guidance for conducting
public notifications within the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
(AFISRA) headquarters, and applies to all military (including AFISRA-gained Air National
Guard and Air Force Reserve personnel), U.S. government civilians and contract personnel
working in the Agency headquarters. It implements programs defined as internal information by
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures, and AFI 35-113,
Internal Information. It also implements guidance established by AFI 33-152, User
Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems; AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review
Process; and AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented
at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed through the OPR prior to certification and
approval. Maintain records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting
records managers as required.
 2                                                                  AFISRAI35-101 12 July 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision included changes to mandatory publishing and records management statements,
and included updated requirements to Attachment 1. All other changes were administrative in
nature.
1. Policy.
     1.1. A Public Affairs (PA) internal information program is only effective when the
     appropriate tools are selectively leveraged, at the appropriate time, and in relative importance
     of each tactical information target. The physics of the information battlespace are such that
     the effects of some communication tools are lessened when overused. Diligent efforts must
     be taken to reserve the use of select tools to preserve their effectiveness when initiated
     toward high-value goals.
     1.2. All users of public notification tools will exercise security at the source to ensure
     sensitive or classified information is not distributed through internal information tools, which
     are only cleared for public, releasable information. The PA office reserves final clearance
     authority for all public notifications within the AFISRA headquarters.
     1.3. Information distributed through internal information tools must be clear and complete.
     Unclear or incomplete information breeds confusion and distrust of the information channels,
     crippling their short- and long-term effectiveness.
     1.4. In the event an issue threatens the safety or well-being of agency personnel, all internal
     information tools may be used by anyone with knowledge of the event to prevent or reduce
     harm to personnel until the immediate, critical nature of the event passes. At that time,
     control of the internal information tools reverts back to the PA office.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Commander. Normally defers all public notification execution decisions to the Director,
     PA, and reserves the right to re-target any tools as needed.
     2.2. Director, PA.
        2.2.1. Provides direction on which public notification avenues may be used for each
        internal information target.
        2.2.2. May conduct or direct, as needed, a security and policy review of any information
        to be released to either internal headquarters audiences or throughout the enterprise.
        2.2.3. Reserves the right to reject any public notification request that violates Air Force
        or agency security, accuracy, policy or proprietary (SAPP) guidelines.
        2.2.4. May rewrite or rephrase any submissions to ensure SAPP, brevity, clarity,
        consistency and appropriateness.
     2.3. PA Office Members. PA practitioners with the ability, competence and authority may
     use any public notification tools as appropriate in accordance with this publication.
     2.4. Individuals. Every person who submits public notification requests will ensure the
     information is free from information that is sensitive, controlled, classified or otherwise
     protected from public release (e.g., Privacy Act of 1974 and For Official Use Only).
AFISRAI35-101 12 July 2013                                                                     3


3. Guidance.
   3.1. Tools. This list of public notification tools is not all inclusive.
       3.1.1. Digital Community Bulletin Boards. Monitored and semi-monitored postings on
       intranet    services     such      as     the     agency’s   SharePoint   page    at
       https://lackland.eis.aetc.af.mil/afisr/default.aspx. This is often a passive service
       appropriate for almost every public notification.
       3.1.2. Commander’s Corner. This intranet service belongs to the agency commander and
       is administered by the PA office. It includes the commander’s blog and the “Ask the
       Boss” section, which enable agency personnel to directly address the commander.
       3.1.3. Consolidated E-mail Announcements. Normally an e-mailed list of informational
       briefs, such as community notices posted on digital community bulletin boards, is
       distributed by the PA office as deemed necessary. Overuse quickly degrades effect.
           3.1.3.1. PA will send one consolidated announcement by 1600 each Wednesday. If
           the day falls on a holiday or down day, the announcement will be sent by 1600 the
           preceding duty day.
           3.1.3.2. The consolidated e-mail will include various announcements taken from the
           identified digital community bulletin board; therefore, it is up to submitting
           individuals to ensure requests are posted in sufficient time to be approved and
           included.
           3.1.3.3. The consolidated e-mail will be condensed to headlines and links to the
           digital community bulletin board postings to allow for quick perusal by recipients and
           reduce the size of the mass e-mail.
       3.1.4. Poster Stanchions. These are strategically located, mobile easels placed at
       entrances around the agency headquarters. These stanchions allow publicity of an agency
       event or activity or distribute command information to employees in the headquarters.
       Lack of message rotation degrades effect.
           3.1.4.1. Individuals and units requesting the use of poster stanchions, once approved,
           are responsible for requesting and obtaining the appropriate poster from an
           appropriate source (e.g., Multimedia). PA does not have the capability to design or
           provide such posters.
           3.1.4.2. Individuals using poster stanchions are responsible for removing posters at
           the end of designated display period and returning the standard welcome poster to the
           stanchion. PA reserves the right to remove and destroy posters at any time for
           security concerns, event expiration or needs of the commander’s information
           program.
       3.1.5. Exterior Electronic Marquee. The agency’s electronic marquee is used to
       announce and welcome distinguished visitors in a priority as defined by Protocol. Safety
       messages relevant to Security Hill will run when there are no DV welcome messages.
       This passive tool has a limited effect for drivers, and only slightly more for passengers.
       Any messages posted should be brief and should not use extraordinary means to attract
       attention, as this can be a safety hazard for traffic. Requests for DV messages must be
 4                                                                  AFISRAI35-101 12 July 2013


        submitted to Protocol for approval, and Protocol will forward all approved DV messages
        to PA no later than three days prior to the date needed.
        3.1.6. Independent E-Mail Announcements. This active tool generates a topic-specific e-
        mail distributed to all members of a unit. This is a powerful immediate communications
        tool, but injudicious and overuse quickly degrades effectiveness. Use of agency-all e-
        mail should be scheduled for maximum impact before the event or activity. Agency-all e-
        mails will only be sent for information pertinent to the entire headquarters and of
        strategic or tactical importance to the agency commander. Those determinations will be
        made by the PA office in coordination as necessary with the director of staff.
            3.1.6.1. Only one announcement will be made per event; therefore, every effort must
            be made by the submitting individual to ensure the PA office has the complete
            information needed to fully inform the target audience.
            3.1.6.2. Announcements may only be re-sent if there is a change in the event’s
            critical information (e.g., date, time, location, name of host or speaker, cost, point of
            contact).
            3.1.6.3. If the announcement is released the day before the event or reservation
            deadline, it will be sent no later than 1600.
            3.1.6.4. Each e-mail will have the following statement at the bottom of the
            notification:
Disclaimer: The information contained in this e-mail is forwarded directly from the
organization requesting the announcement. Please refer all questions, comments or suggestions
to the organization referenced in the announcement.
        3.1.7. Public Address System. This tool is used to broadcast audio announcements
        throughout the headquarters building and is the most powerful for immediacy, but it may
        be easily crippled if overused, the systems’ speakers have been turned down in some
        areas, agency personnel are located outside of the building, or other distracters
        prohibiting listening to any announcements. Due to this tool’s overwhelming immediate
        effect, limitations must be followed:
            3.1.7.1. Emergency messages must be clear and calm, and critical information must
            be repeated.
            3.1.7.2. Only the director of staff or, in the absence of the director of staff, the
            director of PA may approve the broadcast of non-emergency messages.
            3.1.7.3. When used, non-emergency messages will only be made on the day of the
            associated event. Non-emergency messages should be only those of critical
            importance to the agency commander or that impact everyone within buildings 2000
            and 2007.
     3.2. Information Tiers. Public notifications are sorted into generic information tiers that
     identify the appropriate tools to ensure tools are not overused for communications of reduced
     or no relationship to the strategic goals. These tool choices are strong recommendations, and
     not all tools available to the appropriate tier have to be leveraged against a target. Also, the
     Director, PA, may choose to leverage select tools from higher tiers in specific circumstances
     that warrant such a shift.
AFISRAI35-101 12 July 2013                                                                      5


      3.2.1. Tier III.
          3.2.1.1. Public Notifications: Retirements for E-8, O-5, IA-04/GS-14 equivalent and
          below; individual promotions; private organization fundraisers; luncheons or dinners
          only in conjunction with retirements; sports tournaments; and changes of command
          that occur below the A-staff level.
          3.2.1.2. Tools: Digital community bulletin board and consolidated e-mail
          announcements.
      3.2.2. Tier II.
          3.2.2.1. Public Notifications: Private organization meetings; distinguished visitors at
          the                                                                               E-9,
          O-6, SES or higher level to the agency headquarters; and tournaments or open events
          that are agency-sponsored or where any proceeds go toward approved non-profit
          charities or scholarships.
          3.2.2.2. Tools: All tools included for Tier III plus poster stanchions and exterior
          electronic marquees, as appropriate and per rules established elsewhere in this
          document
      3.2.3. Tier I.
          3.2.3.1. Public Notifications: Agency-wide consolidated promotion or award
          ceremonies; conferences or professional development speeches or seminars open to
          the majority of headquarters personnel and not just one organization or career field;
          retirements at the E-9, O-6, IA-05/GS-15 equivalent or higher; and A-staff directorate
          or higher changes of command or farewells.
          3.2.3.2. Tools: Tools included for Tiers II and III and independent e-mail
          announcements and public address system, the latter only at the request of the director
          of staff.
   3.3. Submission Requirements.
      3.3.1. Requests for public notifications may be sent via email to AFISRA.PA@us.af.mil
      or entered by the requestor into the appropriate digital community bulletin board.
      3.3.2. Regardless of tier of importance or selected tool, no public notifications of an
      event will occur prior to 1 month before event date or its associated registration deadline,
      unless approved by the PA director.
      3.3.3. To minimize the load on available digital distribution systems, only text will be
      accepted. Exceptions may be made for attachments that are critical to the raw information
      needing to be distributed, e.g., maps or forms. PA may resize or compress such
      attachments to lessen its burden.
      3.3.4. Every effort will be made to place the notification in plain language text. In e-mail
      notifications, every effort will be made, when possible, especially when using
      consolidated
      e-mail announcements, to use hyperlinks to point to the proper supporting attachment,
      such as on digital community bulletin boards or elsewhere available to all recipients of
      the notification.
6                                                            AFISRAI35-101 12 July 2013


    3.3.5. The PA office reserves the right to rewrite and reformat submissions; however, the
    significant facts of a submission will not be compromised to ensure the message is
    effectively communicated to its intended audience.




                                         JOHN N.T. SHANAHAN, Maj Gen, USAF
                                         Commander
AFISRAI35-101 12 July 2013                                                            7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 2011
AFI 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 1 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management, 28 September 2012
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities and Management, 18 August 2010
AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, 20 October 2009
AFI 35-113, Internal Information, 11 March 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
IAW—In Accordance With
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SES—Senior Executive Service
