BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                                       14-121
SURVEILLANCE AND
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                                       30 OCTOBER 2009
                                                                             480TH ISR WING
                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                                11 APRIL 2013

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                           GEOSPATIAL INTELLIGENCE
                                                    EXPLOITATION AND DISSEMINATION
                                                          QUALITY CONTROL PROGRAM
                                                                       MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF ISR Agency/A3OO                                        Certified by: AF ISR/Agency/A3
                                                                           (Col Bruce E. Hardy)
                                                                                       Pages: 8
                                          (480 ISRW)
OPR: 480 ISR WG/DOO                                               Certified by: 480 ISR WG/DO
                                                                     (Lt Col Dennis H. Howell)
Supersedes:   AFISRAI14-                                                                Pages:4
              121_480ISRWSUP_1, 7
              February 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Air Force Intelligence
Planning and Operations, 1 June 1999. This instruction establishes oversight responsibilities for
the Air Force Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency’s (AF ISR Agency) national
and tactical GEOINT exploitation and dissemination. It establishes AF ISR Agency compliance
with the Director of National Intelligence’s analytical and intelligence publication standards as
articulated in Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 203 Analytic Standards and ICD 206
Sourcing Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products. Aligns national production with the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency’s (NGA) geospatial intelligence (GEOINT) best
GEOINT production practices program, and establishes requirements and standards for tactical
GEOINT exploitation and dissemination. It applies to NASIC and the 480 ISRW. Since this
instruction provides only general guidance, supplemental operating procedures are required to be
 2                                        AFISRAI14-121_480 ISRWSUP_I 11 APRIL 2013


published and maintained by units having a GEOINT production, exploitation and dissemination
mission to meet the requirements and conditions of this instruction. When written, you must
forward one copy of each supplement or operating instruction (OI) to HQ AF ISR Agency/
A3OO. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.” Maintain records created as a result of prescribed processes IAW AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
as found on the AF Portal at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting
records managers as required.

(480 ISRW) Air Force ISR Agency Instruction 14-121, Geospatial Intelligence Exploitation
and Dissemination Quality Control Program Management, is supplemented as follows. This
supplement applies to all 480 ISR WG staff offices and 480 ISR Wing-subordinate units
conducting national or theater GEOINT operations. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF FM 847s through the appropriate chain
of command. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, 480 ISR WG/CC is the waiver
authority for this instruction. Request waivers through the appropriate chain of command to 480
ISR WG/CC. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.     Contact supporting records managers as
required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(480 ISRW) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
Major changes include new guidelines clarifying requirements for the Wing, Group, and
Squadron level Quality Control Program Manager, as well as revise the wing GEOINT Product
Quality Control Status and Trends Analysis Report template. The updated Wing GEOINT
Quality Control Report now includes moved Total Products Released as a subcategory of
Number of Products Issued and a subcategory for Total Number of Products with No Errors was
added as a subcategory of Post-Release of Product.
1. GEOINT Production: For the purpose of this instruction, the term production refers to all
processes, to include the exploitation and dissemination of GEOINT products. GEOINT
collection activities encompass all aspects of: literal, infrared (IR), synthetic aperture radar
(SAR) imagery, and Overhead Persistent Infrared (OPIR) capabilities. The terms imagery
intelligence and advanced geospatial intelligence are encompassed within this definition of
GEOINT regardless of the source. GEOINT includes the exploitation and analysis of electro-
optical, infrared, radar imagery, spectral, laser, IR, radiometric, SAR phase history, and Polari
metric data. It employs all ancillary data, signature information, and fused data products as
necessary. An effective exploitation and dissemination management program should facilitate
prompt recognition, rapid analysis and timely dissemination of intelligence that consistently and
accurately supports customer needs. Products issued must meet the highest standards in all
AFISRAI14-121_480 ISRWSUP_I 11 APRIL 2013                                                       3


aspects—timeliness, format, and content. While post-release quality control will continue to be
an important part of exploitation and dissemination programs, each program will emphasize a
stringent, multilayered, pre-release quality control process.
2. Program Oversight Responsibilities:
   2.1. HQ AF ISR Agency/A3 will:
       2.1.1. Designate the Current Operations Branch, A3OO, as the Office of Primary
       Responsibility for overseeing GEOINT Quality Control Programs throughout the AF ISR
       Agency.
   2.2. A3OO will:
       2.2.1. Maintain overall responsibility for Center/Wing GEOINT Product Quality Control
       programs.
       2.2.2. Maintain overall responsibility for subordinate units’ compliance with Intelligence
       Community analytical, production and dissemination standards.
       2.2.3. Approve all waivers to this operating instruction.
       2.2.4. Review this instruction annually and revise/update as required.
       2.2.5. Act as liaison between HQ AF ISR Agency, HQ USAF, DIA and NGA on quality
       assurance and quality control policy and requirements issues.
   2.3. NASIC and 480 ISRW will:
       2.3.1. Appoint in writing, a Wing/Center GEOINT Product Quality Control Program
       Manager to ensure program effectiveness. Provide a copy of the appointment letter to AF
       ISR Agency/A3OO within 30 days of appointment.
          2.3.1.1. (Added-480 ISRW) 480 ISR WG/DO will appoint, in writing, the Wing
          GEOINT Product Quality Control Program Managers (QCPM). Wing QCPM must at
          a minimum hold/maintain a current GRE or IMS qualification in CMR status.
              2.3.1.1.1. (Added-480 ISRW) 480 ISR WG Group Commanders will appoint, in
              writing, unit GEOINT Product Quality Control Program Managers. Group and
              Squadron level QCPM must at a minimum hold/maintain a current GRE or IMS
              qualification in CMR status.
       2.3.2. Ensure Quality Control Officials at all levels are appointed in writing, are
       certified, and maintain their certifications, to produce each product they quality control.
       2.3.3. Appoint only the most highly qualified operators to be Quality Control Officials
       for each product category.
       2.3.4. Ensure Quality Control Officials are appointed in sufficient quantity to meet
       program requirements.
       2.3.5. The Wing/Center GEOINT Product Quality Control Program Manager will:
          2.3.5.1. Review this instruction annually and recommend revisions/updates to HQ
          AF ISR Agency/A3OO as required.
4                                      AFISRAI14-121_480 ISRWSUP_I 11 APRIL 2013


       2.3.5.2. Publish local instructions to implement this instruction for subordinate units.
       Send one copy of all supplemental instructions to HQ AF ISR Agency/A3OO no later
       than 30 days from date of publication or revision.
       2.3.5.3. Apprise HQ AF ISR Agency/A3OO of all issues requiring their attention.
       2.3.5.4. Maintain a roster of subordinate units’ Quality Control Officials and ensure
       that only the highest caliber operators are appointed as Quality Control Officials.
       2.3.5.5. Ensure GEOINT quality control programs, requirements, procedures, and
       checklists are standardized across their organization.
       2.3.5.6. Monitor program effectiveness and provide feedback to all levels to improve
       the quality control process and the overall production efforts of all analysts.
       2.3.5.7. Coordinate operational issues, requirements and procedures; and elevate
       problems/issues that cannot be resolved at a lower level to HQ AF ISR
       Agency/A3OO.
       2.3.5.8. Perform annual self-assessments using HQ AF ISR Agency Compliance and
       Standardization Requirements Lists, and locally-created, self-inspection checklists.
       Request biennial HQ AF ISR Agency staff assistance visits, if needed.
       2.3.5.9. Ensure personnel are properly trained and equipped to meet their mission
       requirements by emphasizing a stringent, multilayered, pre and post-release quality
       control process for GEOINT products. Recommend personnel for no-notice
       evaluations to the appropriate Director of Operations with an informational copy to
       the appropriate Center/Wing Director of Operations.
          2.3.5.9.1. (Added-480 ISRW) This requirement will be delegated to the Groups
          and Squadrons. Group and Squadron level QCPM will recommend personnel for
          no-notice evaluation at their discretion.
       2.3.5.10. Send a quarterly Quality Control Status and Trends Analysis Report to HQ
       AF ISR Agency/A3OO by the 15th day of the month following the close of each
       calendar quarter. The format and requirements for this report are in attachment 1
    2.3.6. (Added-480 ISRW) 480 ISR WG/DOO is the Office of Primary Responsibility
    (OPR) for the Wing GEOINT Product Quality Control Program.
       2.3.6.1. (Added-480 ISRW) Unit GEOINT Product QCPM will implement product
       quality control program in accordance with AFISRAI 14-121, paragraphs 2.3.5.1.
       through 2.3.5.2. and 2.3.5.5. through 2.3.5.9. However, all issues will be reported to
       and reports/feedback required forwarded to 480 ISR WG/DOO.
       2.3.6.2. (Added-480 ISRW) All units will be required to send a monthly Quality
       Control Status and Trends Analysis Report to Wing OPR by the 5th duty day of the
       month. The requirements and format for the GEOINT Monthly QC Report can be
       found on the 480 ISR WG SIPR SharePoint web page: 480 ISR WG SIPR home
       page, SharePoint Portal, DO, DOO, GEOINT Guidance and Directives, GEOINT QC.
       2.3.6.3. (Added-480 ISRW) All units will use the scoring sheet to grade post
       release products Secondary Imagery Dissemination Systems (SIDs) and Initial Phase
AFISRAI14-121_480 ISRWSUP_I 11 APRIL 2013                                                     5


         Interpretation Reports (IPIRs). The GEOINT products score sheet can be found on
         the 480 ISR WG SIPR SharePoint web page.
         2.3.6.4. (Added-480 ISRW) All scoring sheets will be maintained for a minimum of
         120 days. They will be stored in softcopy within monthly directories.
  2.4. Establish quality control programs with federated partners.
     2.4.1. Provide Wing/Center approved quality control checklists for each product type the
     federated partner produces. If Wing/Center checklists are not utilized by the federated
     partner, obtain and certify that federated partner checklists meet minimum Wing/Center
     standards.
     2.4.2. Establish procedures to resolve quality control issues with federated partners.
  2.5. NASIC and 480 ISRW subordinate GEOINT production organizations will:
     2.5.1. Appoint in writing, Product Quality Control Officials in sufficient numbers to
     ensure a stringent, multilayered, pre and post-release GEOINT quality control program
     for each type of product issued by that organization.
  2.6. NASIC and 480 ISRW will develop Pre- and Post-Release Product Quality Control
  Checklists.
     2.6.1. Checklists must be coordinated with the Wing/Center Quality Control Program
     Manager to ensure standardization across the organization.
     2.6.2. Checklists must be designed to identify major and minor product errors. A major
     error is one that causes the product to be reissued. Major errors may include erroneous
     classification, inadequate and erroneous information, inaccurate geo location data, or
     improper distribution.
     2.6.3. Checklists will be designed with a numeric point system for each item evaluated.
     Checklists will be weighted so that any one major error will result in that product failing
     the quality control check, and an accumulation of minor errors may also result in an
     overall failure.
  2.7. Quality Control Requirements.
     2.7.1. A pre-release quality control of all products will be performed by a certified
     Quality Control Official prior to dissemination. This requirement cannot be waived.
     Focus on the accuracy and presentation of the information, but externals, especially
     distribution-related items, should also receive careful examination.
     2.7.2. The Wing/Center Operations Officer will establish a percentage of all products
     issued for post-release quality control. This percentage must ensure the effectiveness of
     the unit’s pre-release quality control program and the overall quality of unit production.
     The percentage of products receiving post-release quality control will be reported in the
     quarterly status report.
         2.7.2.1. (Added-480 ISRW) All units will perform a post release quality control
         check using the scoring sheet on the 480 ISR WG SharePoint for the SID and IPIR.
         Units will complete this check by assigned targets per 24 hour period; 5% equally
         across each of the current days mission areas and sensors. This percentage will
6                                         AFISRAI14-121_480 ISRWSUP_I 11 APRIL 2013


          ensure the effectiveness of the unit’s pre-release quality control checks (IMS and
          GRE level) and the overall quality of unit production.
          2.7.2.2. (Added-480 ISRW) All units will perform post release exploitation quality
          control check by assigned high altitude targets per 24 hour period; 2% equally across
          each of the current day’s mission areas and sensors. This post release exploitation
          will include "NSTR" targets as well as targets with EEI activity and products created.
          Targets selected for post release exploitation check will be evaluated/reviewed for
          accuracy and completeness of callouts and analysis.
              2.7.2.2.1. (Added-480 ISRW) If it is determined that a target has inaccurate
              analysis, the GEOINT QCPM will contact the IMS whose initials are on the
              product to review the callout. If the QCPM and IMS cannot come to a decision
              on the appropriate call, QCPM brief their DO on the issue.
              2.7.2.2.2. (Added-480 ISRW) For any targets deemed to have an incorrect call,
              the target will have a new report created and sent out with the new, corrected
              analysis. Corrected report will reference the previous report’s mission, target, and
              incorrect call.
              2.7.2.2.3. (Added-480 ISRW) Results of the post release exploitation check will
              be sent to the 480 ISR WG via the monthly QC report.
       2.7.3. In order to receive a satisfactory rating on any individual product, that product
       must obtain a quality control rating of 98% error free.
          2.7.3.1. The quality control should evaluate the timeliness, accuracy and presentation
          of the information.
          2.7.3.2. The Quality Control Official should ensure the appropriate tools were
          utilized and all capabilities maximized to satisfy the tasking.
          2.7.3.3. Product externals, especially distribution-related items, should receive
          careful examination.
          2.7.3.4. Correct meta data tagging will be evaluated.
       2.7.4. The quality control program will include a feedback mechanism to identify and
       correct poor performance. This mechanism must be outlined in the Wing/Center
       instruction.
    2.8. Adopted Form. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                            Commander

                                            (480 ISRW)

                                            JEFFREY A. KRUSE, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
AFISRAI14-121_480 ISRWSUP_I 11 APRIL 2013                                                           7


                                           Attachment 1
    GEOINT PRODUCT QUALITY CONTROL STATUS AND TRENDS ANALYSIS
                             REPORT

A1.1. Quality Control statistics results for the quarter of:
A1.2. Number of products issued by type:
A1.3. Number of products receiving pre-release quality control and accuracy rate by type of
error: Compare number issued and quality control rating by type of error and overall evaluation
with last quarter and last year. Identify any trends by types of errors, flights or work centers.
A1.4. Number of products receiving post-release quality control evaluation and accuracy rate
and by type of error: Compare number issued and quality control rating by type of error and
overall evaluation with last quarter and last year. Identify any trends by types of errors, flights or
work centers.
A1.5. Provide a narrative for all areas that do not meet production standards to include trends
identified and corrective actions taken.
A1.6. If graphics are utilized, all presentations will have a full narrative description to explain
the statistics depicted.
NOTE: This report is intended for HQAF ISR Agency internal use only and will be submitted
via JWICS due to classification considerations.
 8                                      AFISRAI14-121_480 ISRWSUP_I 11 APRIL 2013


                             Attachment 2 (Added-480 ISRW)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFISRAI 14-121, Geospatial Intelligence Exploitation and Dissemination Quality Control
Program Management, 30 October 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACES HY—Airborne Cueing and Exploitation System Hyper-spectral
AGI—Advanced Geospatial Intelligence
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ASW—Associated With
CMR— Combat Mission Ready
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
FMV—Full Motion Video
GH—Global Hawk
GRE— Geospatial Reports Editor
HSI—Hyper Spectral Imagery
IMS—Imagery Mission Supervisor
IPIR—Initial Phase Interpretation Report
MASINT—Measurements and Signatures Intelligence
NSTR— Nothing Significant to Report
NTM—National Technical Means
OBC—Optical Bar Camera
QCPM— Quality Control Program Manager
SID—Secondary Imagery Dissemination Systems
SPIRITT—Spectral Infrared Remote Imaging Transition Testbed
SYERS—Senior Year Electro-optical Reconnaissance System
