Administrative Changes to AFISRAI 14-131, Command Language Program

OPR: AFISRA/A2F

Change OPR from AFISRA/A3T to AFISRA/A2F

Change Certifier from AFISRA/A3 to AFISRA/A2 (Mr Kenneth E. O’Neal, GG-15,
DAF).

References to AFISRA/A3, Director of Operations are hereby changed to AFISRA/A2,
Director of Intelligence throughout the publication.

References to AFISRA, Force Management and Training Division (A3T) are hereby
changed to AFISRA, Intelligence Force Management and Training Division (A2F)
throughout the publication.

References to AFISRA/A3T are hereby changed to AFISRA/A2F throughout the
publication. 29 November 2013.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AFISRA INSTRUCTION 14-131
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEILLANCE AND                                                                 12 JULY 2013
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY
                                                                                   Intelligence

                                                        COMMAND LANGUAGE PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A3T                                                      Certified by: AFISRA/A3
                                                                   (Colonel Patricia A. Griffin)
                                                                                      Pages: 18


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence Surveillance
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning Resources and Operations, DoD Directive 5160.41E,
Defense Language Program, DoD Instruction 5160.70, Management of DoD Language and
Regional Proficiency Capabilities, and DoD Instruction 5160.71, DoD Language Testing
Program, which prescribes policy, procedures, responsibilities, and guidance to Department of
Defense (DoD) components for the management and operation of the Defense Language
Program (DLP). It applies to Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
(AFISRA) Command Language Program (CLP) as a subset of the DLP. This instruction
describes AFISRA CLP management for all Cryptologic Language Analysts (CLA). It
establishes policies and procedures for the development and management of AFISRA
subordinate CLPs. This publication applies to all AFISRA subordinate organizations and units
with CLA personnel. This publication also applies to all 0U-coded CLA billets, to include
AFISRA-gained/attached Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve Command 0U-coded
billets. For the purposes of this instruction, the term CLA refers to both military personnel
(e.g.,1N3X1 and 1A8X1) and AFISRA civilian employees in language-designated positions. All
CLA requirements stated herein apply equally to civilian and military personnel, unless stated
otherwise. This publication can be supplemented. Coordinate supplements with the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) for review prior to certification and approval, and forward one
copy to AFISRA/A3T once published. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional manager’s chain of
command. Maintain records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
 2                                                                                            AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact your
supporting Records Manager as required.


        1.      General Description. ..............................................................................................           2
        2.      Authority. ...............................................................................................................    2
        3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       2

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               11

Attachment 2—TRAINING                                                                                                                        18


1. General Description. The AFISRA CLP provides mission capable CLAs to perform mission
essential tasks critical to the successful accomplishment of Air Force cryptologic missions.
CLPs are mandatory programs for organizations with six or more 0U-coded CLAs.
     1.1. This instruction:
        1.1.1. Describes AFISRA CLP management for CLAs.
        1.1.2. Establishes policies and procedures for the development and management of
        AFISRA and subordinate CLPs to accomplish CLA language training.
        1.1.3. Establishes CLP management responsibilities.
        1.1.4. Identifies language-training standards and establishes associated language-
        diagnostic and testing requirements.
        1.1.5. Establishes program planning and reporting requirements.
2. Authority. AFISRA, as a Field Operating Agency for AF/A2, the AF Service Cryptologic
Component (SCC) of the Central Security Service (CSS), and the A0U0 Training Requirements
Quota Identifier (TRQI) Manager, is the responsible authority for formal and external CLA
language training. This instruction designates AFISRA, Force Management and Training
Division (A3T), as primary office of management and oversight for all CLA force development,
language management issues and subordinate CLPs.
     2.1. Waiver authority for this instruction is the AFISRA, Director of Operations (A3).
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. AFISRA/A3. Will provide oversight and guidance to AFISRA/A3T and assigned units
     and subordinate cryptologic elements (i.e., operating locations, detachments, etc.) in
     organizing, training, equipping, and presenting forces to conduct ISR for combatant
     commanders.
     3.2. AFISRA/A3T will:
        3.2.1. Manage, provide oversight, and technical support to subordinate CLPs.
        3.2.2. Liaise with HAF, MAJCOMs, and applicable government and military agencies to
        identify and resolve systemic AF language training problems and issues.
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                                                                  3


     3.2.3. Gather and validate all AFISRA language training requirements and forward to
     appropriate offices and agencies.
     3.2.4. Execute all Language Transformation Funds, programmed Air Force funds, and
     Cryptologic Linguist Program (CLIPR) funds.
     3.2.5. Monitor quality and effectiveness of subordinate CLPs.
     3.2.6. Forward recommendations on CLP policies through AF/A2 to AF/A1DG.
     3.2.7. Staff the AFISRA Language Program Manager (LPM) position to support
     subordinate CLPs.
     3.2.8. Provide CLP support to units with fewer than six CLAs assigned, unless CLP
     support is provided by a co-located/regional CLP.
     3.2.9. Advertise language training opportunities.
     3.2.10. Validate nominees and select non-volunteer CLAs, as needed, for formal and
     external language training.
     3.2.11. Monitor/conduct staff assistance visits (SAV) for subordinate CLPs, as
     appropriate.
     3.2.12. Purchase and issue electronic devices for language training as necessary. These
     devices are US Government property and accountability will be handled IAW AFI 33-
     112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management. Any loss, damage, or
     misuse should be handled appropriately to include Report of Survey IAW AFMAN 23-
     220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, if deemed necessary.
     3.2.13. Coordinate with AFISRA Special Management Activity (SMA) on all immersion
     language training.
  3.3. AFISRA SMA. Will provide reviews of projected immersion language training and
  review sensitive travel worksheets for immersion language training, and provide travel
  authorization recommendations to AFISRA/A3T within 5 duty days of receipt.
  3.4. Wings/Centers will:
     3.4.1. Establish a CLP and appoint, in writing, primary and alternate CLPMs. Primary
     military CLPMs at the wing level shall be a SNCO. Primary civilian CLPMs at the wing
     level should be a commensurate grade with their level of responsibility. AFISRA/A3T is
     the waiver authority for this requirement. Due to the complexity and demands of the
     CLP, Wings should appoint full-time CLPMs. Emphasis should be placed on identifying
     members with CLA experience to fulfill CLPM duties.
     3.4.2. Establish guidance and procedures for subordinate CLPs.         Forward it to the
     AFISRA OPR.
     3.4.3. Liaise with AFISRA/A3T and subordinate units concerning CLA issues.
     3.4.4. Gather, validate, and consolidate all subordinate unit language training
     requirements and forward to AFISRA/A3T, as directed.
     3.4.5. Gather, validate, and consolidate all subordinate unit CLA proficiency data,
     remediation status, utilization, AFSC disqualification/waiver data, and career field/skill
4                                                              AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


       level (AF Form 2096, Classification/On-The-Job-Training Action) information and
       forward to AFISRA/A3T as directed. Ensure appropriate CLA data is current on directed
       databases.
       3.4.6. Gather, validate, and consolidate all subordinate unit monthly and annual spend
       plans/reports and forward to AFISRA/A3T as directed.
       3.4.7. Gather, validate, and consolidate all subordinate unit nominations for formal and
       external language training to AFISRA/A3T as directed.
       3.4.8. Monitor/conduct SAVs for subordinate CLPs, as appropriate.
       3.4.9. Issue electronic devices for language training to their subordinate units or assigned
       CLAs as required/desired.         These devices are US Government property and
       accountability will be handled IAW AFI 33-112. Any loss, damage, or misuse should be
       handled appropriately to include Report of Survey IAW AFMAN 23-220, if deemed
       necessary.
       3.4.10. Ensure all assigned CLAs planning in-country immersion language training
       complete the following actions no later than 60 days prior to scheduled departure for
       training.
           3.4.10.1. Complete all requisite, pre-travel coordination IAW the DoD Electronic
           Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil), to include country
           clearance actions, medical preparations, and other items specified by the applicable
           country FCG.
           3.4.10.2. Complete the AFISRA/SMA sensitive travel process and submit to
           Wing/Center designated Sensitive Activity Management Office (SAMO)
           representative (requirements will be outlined in the upcoming AFISRAI 14-113,
           Sensitive Activities). For units without designated SAMO support, submit directly to
           AFISRA SMA.
    3.5. Groups. A group or squadron may assume some of the wing/center responsibilities,
    with AFISRA/A3T approval. Groups may appoint CLPMs as needed.
    3.6. Units will:
       3.6.1. Establish a CLP when six or more CLAs are assigned and appoint, in writing, a
       CLPM. Small, co-located units, each with less than six CLAs, will establish a
       consolidated CLP to make the best use of available resources. A CLPM located within
       their region or the AFISRA CLPM will support units with fewer than six CLAs. Support
       agreements will be documented and signed by both parties.
       3.6.2. Publish unit CLP supplement to this instruction if needed. Forward it to AFISRA
       OPR.
       3.6.3. Establish a Command Language Program Council (CLPC). The CLPC shall be
       composed of, at a minimum, the unit commander, CLPM, unit training manager, and
       subject matter experts. CLPCs shall meet at least quarterly. CLPCs will publish meeting
       minutes within 5 duty days of CLPC meeting and ensure distribution to all assigned
       CLAs.
       3.6.4. Establish, promote, and manage a Language Mentorship Program.
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                                                               5


     3.6.5. Ensure military CLA billets and designated Resource Language Allocation (RLA)
     codes in the Unit Manning Document (UMD) align with the unit mission and are
     coordinated with the manpower office.
     3.6.6. Ensure each military CLA has an Individual Language Training Plan (ILTP) IAW
     the applicable Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). The CLPM shall
     ensure ILTPs are updated/maintained. The ILTP will outline specific training
     requirements uniquely structured and tailored to the individual and will serve as a
     contract between the CLA and the commander for a detailed individual improvement
     plan. Civilian CLAs are encouraged to follow guidance outlined in their professional
     development plans.
     3.6.7. Monitor and track proficiency and progress of assigned CLAs. Commanders are
     encouraged to establish incentive programs that support language analyst retention and
     improved proficiency.
     3.6.8. Ensure CLAs receive appropriate language training IAW applicable CFETP.
     Gather and validate all language training requirements and forward as directed.
     3.6.9. Validate/nominate CLAs for appropriate formal and external language training and
     forward through wing/center CLPM to AFISRA/A3T as directed.
     3.6.10. Consistent with mission requirements, commanders are encouraged to schedule
     or authorize CLAs time to perform language continuation training during the duty day
     with the same priority as their Unit Fitness Program.
     3.6.11. Create monthly and annual language training spend plans/reports and forward as
     directed.
     3.6.12. Gather and validate all military CLA proficiency data, remediation status,
     utilization, AFSC disqualification/waiver data, and career field/skill level (AF Form
     2096) information and forward as directed.
     3.6.13. Submit nomination packages as directed for annual awards packages, to include:
     Command Language Program of the Year and Language Professional of the Year, and
     program packages, to include: Yonsei University Program.
     3.6.14. Maintain awareness of unit’s Language Readiness Index (LRI) as applicable
     IAW USSID AP2150, Cryptologic Language Performance Standards.
     3.6.15. Ensure the Remedial Language Training Program (RLTP) is accomplished IAW
     the applicable CFETP for sub-proficient military CLAs (proficiency less than L2/R2 or
     OPI 2).
     3.6.16. Make recommendations to retain or reclassify military CLAs who fail to make
     progress in a remedial program IAW the applicable CFETP and AFI 36-2101, Classifying
     Military Personnel (Officer And Enlisted).
     3.6.17. Issue electronic devices for language training to assigned CLAs as
     required/desired. These devices are US Government property and accountability will be
     handled IAW AFI 33-112. Any loss, damage, or misuse should be handled appropriately
     to include Report of Survey IAW AFMAN 23-220, if deemed necessary.
     3.6.18. When requesting in-country immersions, adhere to AFISRA SMA requirements.
6                                                            AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


       3.6.19. Ensure in-country immersion language training students are not scheduled for
       “home-stay” scenarios (the practice of lodging Airmen with a host family). These are
       expressly forbidden. Waivers or other requests for exception to this policy will not be
       approved.
       3.6.20. Ensure CLA students do not attend an in-country immersion alone. In-country
       language training immersions for CLAs require a minimum of two students.
       3.6.21. Ensure all assigned CLAs planning in-country immersion language training
       complete the following actions no later than 60 days prior to scheduled departure for
       training.
          3.6.21.1. Complete all requisite, pre-travel coordination IAW the DoD Electronic
          Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil), to include country
          clearance actions, medical preparations, and other items specified by the applicable
          country FCG.
          3.6.21.2. Complete the AFISRA/SMA sensitive travel process and submit to
          Wing/Center designated SAMO representative (requirements will be outlined in the
          upcoming AFISRAI 14-113, Sensitive Activities). For units without designated
          SAMO support, submit directly to AFISRA SMA.
    3.7. CLPMs will:
       3.7.1. Be appointed in writing. Military CLPMs shall come from CLA AFSCs, have a 7
       skill-level, and have no less than L2/R2 in their duty RLA. Primary military CLPMs at
       the wing level shall be a SNCO. Primary civilian CLPMs at the wing level should be a
       commensurate grade with their level of responsibility. AFISRA/A3T is the waiver
       authority for this requirement.
       3.7.2. Upon appointment as a CLPM, enroll in the DoD CLPM Course at the Defense
       Language Institute Foreign Language Center (DLIFLC), and Command Language
       Training Manager Course (LIMA-1700) at the National Cryptologic School (NCS), and
       attend as soon as possible. CLPMs should attend applicable seminars, conferences and
       other training as directed.
       3.7.3. Ensure assigned CLA information listed in Military Cryptologic Continuing
       Education Program (MCCEP), the National Security Agency (NSA)-directed database
       (CHANDELIER), AFISRA Language Portal, and other databases as directed, is reviewed
       and updated at least quarterly IAW applicable CFETP and other applicable documents.
       3.7.4. In coordination with unit leadership, supervisor, language mentor and member,
       create and maintain an ILTP for each military CLA assigned IAW the applicable CFETP.
       The ILTP will identify the individual’s specific weaknesses, strengths, and define
       appropriate language training needs and a training plan.
       3.7.5. Ensure all newly assigned CLAs are provided a language specific diagnostic
       assessment and/or a structured language placement test if available to determine language
       training needs. Develop/manage process to evaluate effectiveness of training for assigned
       CLAs
       3.7.6. Administer the unit’s RLTP IAW the applicable CFETP.
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                                                                   7


     3.7.7. Ensure military CLAs who do not meet minimum language requirements are
     immediately entered into the RLTP. The RLTP status will be updated in the AFISRA
     Language Portal within three duty days. CLAs will be provided necessary language
     training to improve proficiency IAW appropriate CFETP. Sub-proficient CLAs should
     be scheduled for individual diagnostic assessments to determine training needs.
     Commander will review RLTP progression.
     3.7.8. Gather and validate all military CLA proficiency data, remediation status,
     utilization, AFSC disqualification/waiver data, and career field/skill level (AF Form
     2096) information and forward as directed.
     3.7.9. Establish a Command Language Program Council (CLPC) and provide CLP
     updates to the commander at least quarterly.
     3.7.10. Create a language training budget/spend plan. Forward monthly and annual
     language training spend plans through wing/center to AFISRA/A3T as directed.
     3.7.11. Ensure all assigned military CLAs test at least annually in all languages in which
     training was provided at government expense. DLI by-pass members must also test
     annually in the language in which they were accepted into the AFSC. CLPMs will also
     ensure all assigned civilian CLAs test at least annually in the language required for their
     position.
     3.7.12. Coordinate with the appropriate office: testing center/Test Control Officer,
     personnel, or finance, etc, on appropriate language issues, such as, Defense Language
     Proficiency Tests (DLPT), Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus (FLPB), etc.
     3.7.13. Advertise language training opportunities to assigned CLAs at least quarterly.
     3.7.14. Maintain a CLP Continuity Book. The continuity book will at a minimum
     include the CLPM appointment letter, associated CLPM training certificates, and all
     relevant CLP-related correspondence and guidance to include: DoD Directive 5160.41E,
     Defense Language Program, DoD Instruction 5160.70, Management of DoD Language
     and Regional Proficiency Capabilities, AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, AFI
     36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, a current copy of this instruction,
     local OI, support agreements, applicable budget/funding guidance, current and future FY
     CLA training requirements, CLPC meeting minutes from past 36 months, and policy
     memos. The CLP continuity book will also have information on the testing processes,
     FLPB, language training resources and opportunities. The continuity book may be kept
     electronically (e.g., a virtual continuity book).
     3.7.15. Submit training requirements and requests for training materials through the
     chain of command to AFISRA/A3T as directed.
     3.7.16. Maintain accountability of each language-training electronic device issued to
     CLAs that does not meet the threshold for tracking (iPods Touches) in the Assets
     Inventory Management (AIM) module of the AF Equipment Management System
     (AFEMS) IAW AFI 33-112. Update the appropriate CLA field on the AFISRA
     Language Portal or other accountability system as directed. These devices are US
     Government property. Any loss, damage, or misuse should be handled appropriately to
     include Report of Survey IAW AFMAN 23-220, if deemed necessary.
8                                                            AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


       3.7.17. When requesting in-country immersions, adhere to AFISRA SMA requirements
       and ensure commander is informed on travel assessments.
       3.7.18. Not schedule in-country immersion students for “home-stay” scenarios (the
       practice of lodging Airmen with a host family). These are expressly forbidden. Waivers
       or other requests for exception to this policy will not be approved.
       3.7.19. Ensure CLA students do not attend an in-country immersion alone. In-country
       language training immersions for CLAs require a minimum of two students. Students
       may be from another unit. Exception to this policy may be granted by AFISRA/A3T on a
       case-by-case basis.
       3.7.20. Ensure all assigned CLAs planning in-country immersion training complete the
       following actions no later than 60 days prior to scheduled departure for training:
           3.7.20.1. All requisite, pre-travel coordination IAW the DoD Electronic Foreign
           Clearance Guide (FCG) (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil), to include country
           clearance actions, medical preparations, and other items specified by the applicable
           country FCG.
           3.7.20.2. Complete the AFISRA/SMA sensitive travel process and submit through
           the chain of command to the Wing/Center designated SAMO representative
           (requirements will be outlined IAW the upcoming AFISRAI 14-113, Sensitive
           Activities).
    3.8. Supervisors of CLAs will:
       3.8.1. Maintain awareness of proficiency, training currency, and AFSC requirements for
       subordinate CLAs. This includes the implications of AFSC waivers and the effects of
       failing to maintain proficiency. Supervisors should be an advocate for language training
       (i.e., SLTE) for their assigned CLAs.
       3.8.2. In coordination with the unit leadership, language mentor, and subordinate CLA,
       co-develop an ILTP with the CLPM for assigned military CLAs IAW the applicable
       CFETP. Supervisors will ensure subordinate CLAs adhere to the ILTP and all applicable
       directives.
       3.8.3. Ensure subordinate CLAs are afforded appropriate time and opportunity for
       language continuation training.
       3.8.4. Co-develop a revised ILTP for sub-proficient military CLAs with unit leadership,
       CLPM, language mentor, and subordinate CLA IAW the applicable CFETP’s RLTP.
       Supervisors will ensure CLAs adhere to the RLTP and all applicable directives.
       3.8.5. Ensure all subordinate military CLAs test at least annually in all languages in
       which training was provided at government expense. DLI by-pass members must also
       test annually in the language in which they were accepted into the AFSC. Ensure all
       subordinate civilian CLAs test at least annually in the language required for their
       position.
       3.8.6. Ensure all assigned CLAs planning in-country immersion training complete the
       following actions no later than 60 days prior to scheduled departure for training.
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                                                               9


        3.8.6.1. Complete all requisite, pre-travel coordination IAW the DoD Electronic
        Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil), to include country
        clearance actions, medical preparations, and other items specified by the applicable
        country FCG.
        3.8.6.2. Complete the AFISRA/SMA sensitive travel process and submit through the
        chain of command to the Wing/Center designated SAMO representative
        (requirements will be outlined IAW the upcoming AFISRAI 14-113, Sensitive
        Activities).
        3.8.6.3. Complete any other applicable foreign travel actions.
  3.9. CLAs will:
     3.9.1. Maintain the minimum language proficiency standards IAW applicable CFETP.
     Civilian CLAs will maintain proficiency standards in the language required for their
     position. CLAs will continue to develop towards DoD and intelligence community
     standard of L3/R3.
     3.9.2. Maintain awareness of their proficiency, training currency, and AFSC
     requirements.
     3.9.3. Understand and comply with language training requirements and responsibilities.
     CLAs must allocate appropriate time for language continuation training IAW applicable
     CFETP, command and unit guidance.
     3.9.4. Adhere to their ILTP (military), and when applicable the RLTP, and elevate
     language issues or concerns to the chain of command as appropriate.
     3.9.5. Test at least annually in all languages in which training was provided at
     government expense or in which they were accepted into the AFSC (military only).
     Civilian CLAs test at least annually in the language required for their position.
     3.9.6. Ensure individual information listed in MCCEP, NSA-directed (CHANDELIER)
     and AFISRA databases are current and accurate.
     3.9.7. Not proceed on AFISRA language training TDY without signed orders or
     authorization.
     3.9.8. Complete the following actions when planning in-country immersion training no
     later than 60 days prior to scheduled departure for training.
        3.9.8.1. Complete all requisite, pre-travel coordination IAW the DoD Electronic
        Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil), to include country
        clearance actions, medical preparations, and other items specified by the applicable
        country FCG.
        3.9.8.2. Complete the AFISRA/SMA sensitive travel process and submit through the
        chain of command to the Wing/Center designated SAMO representative
        (requirements will be outlined IAW the upcoming AFISRAI 14-113, Sensitive
        Activities).
10                                                    AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


     3.9.9. Ensure electronic devices issued for language training are treated as US
     Government property. Any loss, damage, or misuse will be handled appropriately to
     include Report of Survey IAW AFMAN 23-220, if deemed necessary.




                                      JOHN N.T. SHANAHAN, Maj Gen, USAF
                                      Commander
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                                                               11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning Resources and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 14-125, Cryptologic Skill Program, 30 July 2008
AFI 16-606, Foreign Clearance Program, 21 January 2011
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 June 2010
AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitment, 30 April 2012
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, 24 September 2008
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 October 2009
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 23 March 2012
AFJI 14-107, Management of the Defense Foreign Language Program, 15 March 1987
AFMAN 23-220, Reports Of Survey For Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFPD 36-40, Air Force Language, Region & Culture Program, 16 October 2012
CFETP 1A8X1, Airborne Cryptologic Language Analyst Specialty, 01 June 2011
CFETP 1N3X1, Cryptologic Language Analyst, 04 March 2011
DLIFLC DLPT5 Framework Document, 25 February 2011
DLIFLC Pamphlet 350-8, The Defense Language Institute General Catalog 2011-2012
DLIFLC Training Pamphlet 350-9, Guidelines, Policies and Procedures for DOD Command
Language Programs, 1 November 1995
DLIFLC Pamphlet 351-1, Field Assistance Visit Concept and Evaluation Guidelines for DoD
Command Language Programs, 28 November 1995
DLIFLC Regulation 350-1, Student Management, Training and Administration, 1 January 2000
DoD Directive 5160.41E, Defense Language Program (DLP), 27 May 2010
DoD Instruction Number 3305.09, DoD Cryptologic Training, 22 December 2006
DoD Instruction Number 5160.70, Management of DoD Language and Regional Proficiency
Capabilities, 12 June 2007
DoD Instruction Number 5160.71, DoD Language Testing Program, 26 January 2009
NSA/CSS Policy 2-13, NSA/CSS Cryptologic Language Analyst Development, 6 March 2007
 12                                                         AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


NSA/CSS Policy 40-25, The Cryptologic Training System, 9 May 2007
Signals Intelligence Directive Number 413, Significant Cryptologic Language Training Events
for Cryptologic Language Analysts, 10 May 2007
USSID AP2150, Cryptologic Language Performance Standards, 2 February 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2096, Classification/On-The-Job-Training Action

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A3—AFISRA, Director of Operations
A3T—AFISRA, Force Management and Training Division
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AIM—Assets Inventory Management
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CLA—Cryptologic Language Analyst
CLIPR—Cryptologic Linguist Program
CLP—Command Language Program
CLPC—Command Language Program Council
CLPM—Command Language Program Manager
CLPoY—Command Language Program of the Year
CLRM—Command Language Resource Manager
CLTM—Cryptologic Language Training Manager
CSS—Central Security Service
DLIFLC—Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center
DLP—Defense Language Program
DLPT—Defense Language Proficiency Test
DoD—Department of Defense
FCG—Foreign Clearance Guide
FLPB—Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                               13


FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
ILR—Interagency Language Roundtable
ILTP—Individual Language Training Plan
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
LLC—Language Learning Center
LPM—Language Program Manager
LPoY—Language Professional of the Year
LRI—Language Readiness Index
LTD—Language Training Detachment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCCEP—Military Cryptologic Continuing Education Program
MTT—Mobile Training Team
NSA—National Security Agency
NCS—National Cryptologic School
OPI—Oral Proficiency Interview
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RLA—Resource Language Allocation
RLTP—Remedial Language Training Program
SAMO—Sensitive Activity Management Office
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SCC—Service Cryptologic Component
SLTE—Significant Language Training Event
SMA—Special Management Activity
TCO—Test Control Officer
TRQI—Training Requirements Quota Identifier
UMD—Unit Manning Document
USSID—US Signals Intelligence Directive
 14                                                            AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


Terms
Central Security Service (CSS).—The CSS was established by presidential directive in 1972 to
promote full partnership between the National Security Agency and the Service Cryptologic
Components of the U.S. Armed Forces. This created a unified cryptologic effort by combining
NSA and CSS. The Director of NSA is dual—hatted as the Chief of CSS. There are five SCCs:
the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency, the Army Intelligence and
Security Command, the US Fleet Cyber Command/US Tenth Fleet, the Marine Corps
Cryptologic Support Battalion, and the Coast Guard Cryptologic Group.
Command Language Program (CLP).—A comprehensive CLA management program that
includes identification and accountability of language analyst assets, language training
management, and when possible, identification of future CLA training requirements. A CLP is
designed to increase the proficiencies of CLAs performing duties for the Air Force. The CLPM
is directly accountable to the Commander for program performance and function.
Command Language Program of the Year (CLPoY).—An annual competition to recognize
the Air Force unit with the best CLP for the year. AF—level winning packages will be
forwarded on to the DoD-level competition. The DLIFLC provides instructions for CLPoY
package format. The release normally occurs during the 1st quarter of the fiscal year (i.e., 2012
packages will be solicited for during the 1st quarter FY13). The AFISRA LPM will designate a
suspense date.
Continuation Training (CT).—Additional advanced training exceeding the minimum upgrade
training requirements with emphasis on present or future duty assignments. CT provides
members with the volume, frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain and improve
proficiency in the assigned qualification level or certification.
Cryptologic Language Analyst (CLA).—A term that refers to both Air Force military
personnel (e.g.,1N3X1 and 1A8X1) and AFISRA civilian employees in language—designated
positions.
Defense Language Institute (DLI).—Managed by the U.S. Army as executive agent (EA) for
foreign language training within the DoD, DLI is the primary source for all foreign language
training. The DLI Foreign Language Center (DLIFLC) is located at the Presidio of Monterey,
California and has training facilities located in Washington, DC, and training detachments at
various locations around the world.
Defense Language Institute By—Pass.—Individuals who are accepted into a CLA career field
based upon existing, testable language skills in languages for which there is a defined,
operational requirement. Individuals accepted with pre-existing language skills may be
authorized to by-pass official, initial acquisition language training and proceed directly to
cryptologic training. Authorization as DLI by-pass can only be given by the appropriate Career
Field Manager or appointed Air Force Specialty Manager at the Air Staff level.
Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT):—DoD standardized testing system for measuring
an individual’s proficiency in a foreign language. It consists of a battery of tests that measures
the general ability of a native or near—native speaker of English in listening, reading and
speaking a foreign language. Annual testing is mandated for all CLA personnel and those
qualifying or re-qualifying for FLPB.
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                                                                       15


Diagnostic Assessment (DA).—An evaluative tool designed to determine a subject’s skills and
abilities in multiple modalities (listening, reading, speaking, and writing). While there is no
single—source for DAs, DLI is the preferred source for DAs. A DA should be accomplished
according to academically sound practices, preferably administered by a professional examiner
when possible. DAs provide specific, individualized feedback to the CLA on areas under each
modality.
Formally Trained Language.—See Initial Acquisition Language Training.
Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus (FLPB).—Monetary incentive paid to eligible and
qualified military and civilian personnel possessing foreign language proficiency. The objective
of FLPB is to encourage the acquisition, maintenance, and enhancement of foreign language
skills vital to national defense. The ability of the Air Force to interact in the international arena
and respond effectively to any global contingency mandates the need for qualified personnel to
communicate with our allies and the local populations as well as with our adversaries. Individual
participation is voluntary. An Airman's application, qualification for and receipt of FLPB
constitute acknowledgment that he or she may be called upon to respond to global contingency
requirements.
Immersion Language Training.—Foreign language training which uses the target language as
the means of instruction. An immersion educational environment includes, but is not limited to,
an environment where an Airman resides in a foreign country for language and culture training
where internal and external classroom activities are conducted in the target language.
Operational duties or missions do not qualify as immersion events.
Individual Language Training Plan (ILTP).—Personalized training plan tailored to the
individual needs of a military CLA designed to develop and increase the CLA’s language
capability. The CLA, supervisor, CLPM, language mentor, and unit leadership should co—
develop the ILTP using previous experience, DLPT scores, personal interview, and diagnostic
assessments as applicable.
Initial Acquisition Language Training.—DoD funded basic language instruction program
designed for personnel who have no measurable proficiency in the target language. Acquisition
language training is designed to achieve an ILR skill level of 2 in at least two of the three
modalities (listening, reading, or speaking) upon completion. Short-term, accelerated courses,
sometimes known as “Turbo” courses, are not considered to be acquisition level training. See
also, DLI by-pass.
Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR).—An unfunded Federal interagency organization
established for the coordination and sharing of information about language—related activities at
the Federal level. It serves as the premier way for departments and agencies of the Federal
government to keep abreast of the progress and implementation of techniques and technology for
language learning, language use, language testing and other language-related activities.
Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR) Scale.—Set of skill specific descriptions of eleven
proficiency levels 0, 0+, 1, 1+, 2, 2+, 3, 3+, 4, 4+ and 5, which characterize abilities to
communicate in a language. It was originally developed by the Foreign Service Institute, U. S.
State Department. The plus levels will be assigned when proficiency substantially exceeds one
skill level and does not fully meet the criteria for the next level. (REF: http://www.govtilr.org)
ILR Level 0— No Proficiency
 16                                                           AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


ILR Level 0+— Memorized Proficiency
ILR Level 1— Elementary Proficiency
ILR Level 1+— Elementary Proficiency Plus
ILR Level 2— Limited Working Proficiency
ILR Level 2+— Limited Working Proficiency Plus
ILR Level 3— General Professional Proficiency
ILR Level 3+— General Professional Proficiency Plus
ILR Level 4— Advanced Professional Proficiency
ILR Level 4+— Advanced Professional Proficiency Plus
ILR Level 5— Functionally Native Proficiency
Isolated Immersion (Iso—Immersion) Training.—Isolated immersion language training (for
this purpose) is foreign language training conducted in isolation from the English language.
CLAs are taught language and culture exclusively in the target language via traditional
classroom instruction and progressive educational methods. Many iso-immersions are two-three
weeks in length; therefore, not all iso-immersions meet SLTE requirements. Additional
language training may be conducted in conjunction with an iso-immersion to meet SLTE
requirements.
Language Learning Centers (LLC).—A dedicated language training center that provides
foreign language and cultural training. LLCs can host MTTs.
Language Professional of the Year (LPoY).—Designed to identify and recognize outstanding
military language professionals and their accomplishments, as well as recognize the critical role
that military linguists play in supporting the war fighter missions. AF level winning packages
will be forwarded on to the DoD level competition. The DLIFLC provides instructions for LPoY
package format. The release normally occurs during the 1st quarter of the fiscal year (i.e., 2012
packages will be solicited for during the 1st quarter FY13). The AFISRA LPM will designate a
suspense date.
Language Readiness Index (LRI).—This index measures language capabilities within
component missions and roles. It will compare the proficiency level of the language mission to
the language capability of the individuals available to perform that mission, as measured by
testing. Its purpose is to identify gaps in language readiness resource needs. Refer to USSID
AP2150.
Language Training Detachment (LTD).—LTDs provide foreign language training and cultural
awareness requirements. LTDs have a permanent presence at select military installations with
subject matter experts from the faculty and staff of DLI.
Mobile Training Team (MTT).—MTTs are instructors that travel to locations as needed to
provide additional foreign language instruction.
National Cryptologic School (NCS) Courses.—NCS courses are provided by the NSA’s
Associate Directorate for Education and Training. These classes include NCS foreign language
and area studies courses.
AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013                                                                 17


Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI).—A standardized assessment of functional speaking ability.
Taking the form of a conversation between the tester and test—taker, the test measures how well
a person speaks a language by assessing their performance of a range of language tasks against
specified criteria.
Significant Language Training Event (SLTE).—At least 150 hours of immersion language
training or 6 consecutive weeks of 5—hour-a-day classroom training, or other significant event
as defined by the Secretaries of the Military Departments and the Heads of Defense Agencies
and DoD Field Activities.
 18                                                            AFISRAI 14-131 12 JULY 2013


                                         Attachment 2
                                          TRAINING

A2.1. Language Training Types and Categories.
   A2.1.1. Initial Acquisition Language Training. Basic language instruction designed for
   personnel who have no measurable proficiency in the target language. Acquisition language
   training is any formal language training program designed to achieve an ILR skill level of 2
   in at least two of the three modalities (listening, reading, or speaking) upon completion.
   Short-term, accelerated courses, sometimes known as “Turbo” courses, are not considered to
   be acquisition level training.
   A2.1.2. Continuation Language Training. Continuation language training is intended to
   maintain and increase proficiency. CLAs are required to meet regular, recurring language
   training requirements IAW applicable CFETPs (military) or professional development plan
   (civilian). Training activities may not qualify as a SLTE due to specific guidance in DoDIs
   and CFETPs regarding frequency and duration. Not all training activities (i.e., monthly
   continuation training) must meet SLTE requirements, but all should be targeted at the goal of
   increasing or maintain proficiency. Suggested training activities include, but are not limited
   to DLI resident and non-resident courses, NCS courses, college courses, Internet sources,
   commercial language training and language learning center materials.
      A2.1.2.1. Formal Training. Formal language training is conducted by or approved by the
      DLIFLC. The intent of this training is to achieve a specific AFSC or proficiency goal.
      A2.1.2.2. External Language Training. External language training is training conducted
      by contractors, vendors, universities, and government agencies. External language
      training does not include training that is conducted by the DLIFLC.
   A2.1.3. Training Categories.
      A2.1.3.1. Intermediate and Advanced Language Training. Training which provides
      additional skills and knowledge to increase language expertise. Intermediate generally
      refers to training at the 2 to 2+ level. Advanced generally refers to training at the 2+ to 3
      level and above.
      A2.1.3.2. Refresher Training. General term for language training designated to enhance
      proficiency in a foreign language.
      A2.1.3.3. Remedial Language Training. Training designed for military CLAs that are
      below minimum standards according to the applicable CFETP. The objective of the
      program is to return the CLA’s proficiency to at least the minimum standard.
      A2.1.3.4. Enhancement Training. A generic term for training that increases foreign
      language and cultural skills.
   A2.1.4. Enrollment Processes. Refer to the AFISRA Language Portal or other designated
   website for detailed enrollment process instructions.
