BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  23 MAY 2011

                                                                                   Contracting

                                                     SERVICE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A7K                                                     Certified by: AFISRA/A4/7
                                                                               (Col Eric Payne)
Supersedes:   AFISRAI 64-101, 14 January                                              Pages: 20
              2008


This instruction implements AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, by directing requirements for
preparing and administering service contracts and AFI 63-124, Performance-Based Services
Acquisition (PBSA) dated 1 August 2005 by developing and implementing the requirements of
the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 37.6 (and applicable supplements) for performing
acquisition planning, describing agency needs, acquiring services, and implementing
performance-based services acquisition. This instruction covers the procedures and standards
that govern the management of service contracts within Air Force (AF) Intelligence, Surveillance
and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA) and AFISRA-supported units. This instruction applies
to AFISRA and AFISRA supported units who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, or
execute contracts. This instruction does not apply to AFISRA-gained Air National Guard or Air
Force Reserves units. Do not supplement this instruction without the expressed approval of
AFISRA Director of Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (AFISRA/A4/7). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command to
AFISRA/A7K, 102 Hall Blvd Ste 252, San Antonio, TX 78243. Maintain records created as a
result of the prescribed processes identified in this directory in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS)

found on the Air Force Portal link at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Contact supporting records managers as Required.
 2                                                                                        AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates revisions to the organizational identifications, content changes and
updated guidance references related to service contracts.

        1.      Service Contract Management. ..............................................................................          2
        2.      Service Contracting Described. .............................................................................         4
        3.      Performance-Based Service Acquisition (PBSA). .................................................                      6
        4.      Quality Assurance of Service Contracts. ...............................................................              7
        5.      Appropriate Contract Types. ..................................................................................       9
        6.      Contract Support Office. ........................................................................................    9
        7.      Working in Proximity with Contractor Personnel. ................................................                    12
        8.      Acceptance and Payment. ......................................................................................      12
        9.      Contract Deliverable Tracking System. .................................................................             13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      14

Attachment 2—CONTRACT MANAGEMENT FILE CONTENTS                                                                                      18

Attachment 3—CONTRACT DELIVERABLE TRACKING SYSTEM                                                                                   19

Attachment 4—REQUIREMENTS PACKAGE CONTENTS                                                                                          20


1. Service Contract Management.
     1.1. Overview. The objective of service contract management is the successful award and
     administration of a service contract that satisfies the customer’s needs at fair and reasonable
     prices. It is fostered by ensuring the proper actions are taken on each process element
     throughout the acquisition, beginning with stating the requirement and ending with contract
     closeout. This publication deals primarily with developing contract requirements, working
     with the contract support office to get them on contract, and providing contract
     administration support, including surveillance and performance documentation, through the
     contract period. See paragraph 1.3 for staffing a service contract management office.
     1.2. Responsibilities.
        1.2.1. Contract Management Office:
             1.2.1.1. Reviews, assembles, and submits contract requirements packages to the
             supporting contracting office.
             1.2.1.2. Performs technical evaluation of contractor proposals when requested.
             1.2.1.3. Recommends negotiable points in the proposals when requested.
             1.2.1.4. Supports contract administration through performance                                               surveillance,
             submittal review, and invoice processing when requested.
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                        3


        1.2.1.5. AFISRA contract management offices submit data as required for the
        AFISRA Quarterly Contract Review. This review is used to report to the commander
        on the health of the installation’s service acquisition program IAW AFI 63-124. In
        those organizations without the support of a contract management office, the
        Functional Commander/Director will provide the report. Data shall be submitted by
        the 15th of January, April, July, and October or as directed by AFISRA/A7K.
     1.2.2. Functional Commander (FC) or Functional Director (FD): The FC or FD is the
     government official responsible for a functional office for which the services are
     provided. This is frequently the chief of the requiring activity, i.e., the senior end user of
     the contracted services. Regardless of the contract support office, the FC or FD is
     expected to contribute expertise and resources for the operation of the Multi-Functional
     Team (MFT). FDs or FCs shall ensure they and their quality assurance personnel (QAP)
     receive training IAW AFI 63-124 prior to commencement of their QA duties. In those
     offices not serviced by a contract management office, the FC or FD will be responsible
     for submitting the annual report noted in paragraph 1.2.1.5 above. FC’s or FD’s often
     also serve as Services Designated Officials (SDO’s) in AFISRA organizations. See also
     paragraph 3.1.4 for more discussion of SDO responsibilities.
     1.2.3. Contracting Officer (CO):
        1.2.3.1. The only person with the authority to enter into contracts and contractually
        obligate the government. The training, appointment, and organizational placement of
        the CO are covered by the FAR and supplements.
        1.2.3.2. Identifies newly assigned FC, FD, Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP),
        Contracting Officer Representatives (COR), and Contracting Officer Technical
        Representatives (COTR) to the Quality Assurance Program Coordinator (QAPC).
        1.2.3.3. Ensures that required QA and contract management courses are completed
        by the QAP prior to assuming QA responsibilities.
        1.2.3.4. Responsible for the contract from award through performance completion
        and contract closeout.
        1.2.3.5. Provides Phase II QA training.
        1.2.3.6. Provides direction on the closeout and disposition of the contract QA and
        contract management documentation.
     1.2.4. The Contract Specialist/Administrator (CS/CA) is the authorized representative of
     the CO who is assigned the responsibility of administering a service contract for the
     government, which may include solicitation of proposals and negotiation of contracts,
     task orders and modifications.
     1.2.5. The QAP, COR, or COTR are the government representatives responsible for
     monitoring, evaluating, and reporting the contractor’s performance on specific contract
     requirements. These personnel have knowledge of the service tasks and have completed
     training prior to performing contract surveillance. They prepare the official surveillance
     reports that are used in contract administration.
 4                                                                  AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


        1.2.6. The QAPC is the QA coordinator for the Air Force contract support office
        (AFISRA/A7K) and provides Phase I QA training to FD or FC, QAP, COTR, and COR
        personnel IAW AFI 63-124 and MP 5346.103c.
        1.2.7. AFISRA/A7K:
           1.2.7.1. Assists units in finding contracting support.
           1.2.7.2. Provides annual training by conference or on-site training for AFISRA-
           supported contract management offices based on customer needs. This training will
           provide instruction, discuss contracting changes, and identify best practices for
           exchange among participants. AFISRA and AFISRA-supported units and its
           subordinate units shall send the appropriate personnel to attend this conference when
           scheduled. For the contract management offices located outside San Antonio, on-site
           training may be provided to augment local training by visiting those centers for a
           roadshow conference.
           1.2.7.3. Provides oversight for the Air Force Small Business Program. Provides
           training and guidance on shared roles and responsibilities of contracting and program
           management in support of meeting Small Business goals.
     1.3. AFISRA Contract Management Guidance.
        1.3.1. Every AFISRA organization that submits contract requirements for ISR support
        services needs to have a central point of contact (POC) to manage their contracts. Based
        on workload, this POC could be a contract management office or be provided as an
        additional duty. If you have an authorized office, its placement is expected to vary from
        organization to organization. In every case, the POC should have access to the unit’s
        commander.
        1.3.2. If you set up a contract management office, it should have a journeyman level GS-
        1102 series (or Air Force Specialty Code equivalent) contracts manager. Journeyman
        level is considered GG-11, 12, and 13 for civilians; E-7, 8, and 9 for enlisted; or O-3 and
        4 for officers. At least one individual should be of sufficient grade and experience to
        carry substantial weight in discussions with the requiring offices and the CO. Additional
        specialists may be designated as appropriate for the work being contracted. Manning
        may be full or part-time, as appropriate for the workload.
        1.3.3. To ensure that contract management personnel are qualified to perform their
        duties, formal training is highly recommended. Minimum training for full-time contract
        management personnel consists of attaining Acquisition Professional Development
        Program (APDP) Level II in a GG-1102 or equivalent specialty, plus Air Force Phase I
        Quality Assurance Evaluator training. Additional training should include cross-
        functional courses in acquisition (APDP designation ACQ); business, cost estimating and
        financial management (APDP designations BCF or BFM); and contracting (APDP
        designation CON) series. Contract management personnel should attend annual Ethics
        Training and be identified as acquisition personnel in their personnel systems. Contract
        management personnel may also be required to file an annual Confidential Financial
        Disclosure Report (OGE 450).
2. Service Contracting Described.
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                  5


  2.1. Service Contracts. A service contract is a contract where a contractor performs one or
  more tasks, whether or not also providing supply end items. If the tasks are incidental to
  supplying the end items, the contract is usually not a service contract. An ISR service
  contract is one that supports or assists the collection, analysis, dissemination or use of
  intelligence, reconnaissance or surveillance data.
     2.1.1. A non-personal service contract is a contract where the contractor personnel
     providing the service are not subject to government supervision and control in the
     performance of the tasks.
     2.1.2. A personal service contract is a contract where the contractor personnel appear
     like government employees (i.e., the government supervises contractor personnel during
     task performance). Personal service contracts do not convert contract employees into
     government employees and must be approved and advocated by the local civilian
     personnel or manpower office.
     2.1.3. There are two special categories of services that are of interest to contract
     managers.
         2.1.3.1. The federal government simply cannot legally contract for certain services.
         One category of such services is termed ―inherently governmental functions.‖ FAR
         7.503, FAR 37.102 and OMB Circular A-76 contain important policy regarding
         ―inherently governmental functions.‖
         2.1.3.2. Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS) are services acquired by contract
         to support or improve organization policy development, decision making,
         management and administration; support program and/or project management and
         administration; provide management and support services for research and
         development activities; provide engineering and technical support services; or
         improve the effectiveness of management processes or procedures. Congress takes
         particular interest in the extent of A&AS contracts in each federal agency because
         much of this work could be, or was, done by federal employees. For the last decade
         DoD has filed annual reports with the U.S. Congress on the extent of A&AS
         contracts. Specific administrative controls restrict contracting for these services.
         These controls are described in FAR 2.101 and 37.2 for this work. Generally, A&AS
         contract requirements must be identified by MFT review and documentation, with AF
         ISR organizations coordinating through A1M and FM. The Federally Funded
         Research and Development Contract (FFRDC) is a type of research and development
         vehicle which suits some organization’s needs. FFRDCs may be considered by some
         to be an A&AS type vehicle; however the review of FFRDCs is addressed in FAR
         35.017-4. A&AS services include:
            2.1.3.2.1. Management and professional support services that provide assistance,
            advice, or training for the efficient and effective management and operation of
            organizations, activities, or systems.
            2.1.3.2.2. Studies, analyses, and evaluations that provide organized, analytical
            assessments/ evaluations in support of policy development, decision-making,
            management, or administration.
            2.1.3.2.3. Engineering and technical services used to support the program office
 6                                                             AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


               during the acquisition cycle by providing services such as systems engineering
               and technical direction to ensure the effective operation and maintenance of a
               weapon system as defined in OMB Circular No. A-109; or to provide direct
               support of a weapon system that is essential to research development, production,
               operation, or maintenance of the system.
3. Performance-Based Service Acquisition (PBSA).
     3.1. Performance-Based Service Acquisition Described. Performance-Based Service
     Acquisition (PBSA) involves acquisition strategies, methods and techniques that describe
     and communicate measurable outcomes rather than direct performance processes. It is
     structured around defining a service requirement in terms of performance objectives and
     providing contractors the latitude to determine how to meet those objectives. PBSA
     implementation requires a comprehensive process that includes the entire acquisition cycle
     from market research and acquisition planning through contractor performance assessment.
     Measurement of the contractor delivered outcomes against objective criteria is an essential
     part of a PBSA contract.
        3.1.1. AFI 63-124, FAR Part 37, and AFFARS MP 5346.103 are the primary guidance
        for PBSA. AFISRA units receiving contract support from AFISRA/A7K shall implement
        AFI 63-124 and AFISRAI 63-1201 in developing their requirements, awarding and
        managing their service contracts. Check whether or not the MAJCOM that owns your
        contract support office has supplemented the AFI to establish different rules or
        procedures.
        3.1.2. FAR 37.603, FAR 46.105, and AFI 63-124 describe the essential elements of an
        acceptable contractor quality control system. The contractor is responsible for
        monitoring the task performance and making necessary corrections to ensure that the
        performance is meeting standards. The government sets the applicable standards in the
        contract or task order – in the statement of work (SOW), the services summary (or
        service delivery summary,) or the performance plan or preferably all. Performance
        metrics identified in the performance plan will be used to track contractor progress
        toward contract objectives.
        3.1.3. PBSA is results and products oriented, not focused on manpower or hours of
        effort. It depends, at the most basic level, on the contract performance work statement
        (PWS), SOW or statement of objectives (SOO) describing the desired and required
        outcomes of the service tasks. References for how to develop a performance based PWS,
        SOW, or SOO are listed in Attachment 1.
        3.1.4. Air Force Management of Services guidance in AFI 63-101, Chapter. 4, AFFARS
        5337.5, and as supplemented by AFISRA/CC Memorandum, 6 Mar 09, requires an
        annual review of those services contracts that meet the FAR 37.101 definition of
        ―service‖ and are in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold. Additionally, the
        Services Designated Official (SDO) is required to determine within 30 days after full
        assumption of contract workload if the contractor successfully completed transition, is
        fully operational, and is within estimated budget. The AFISRA/CC memo may be found
        at    the    AFISRA/A7K         Customer     CoP     under   SDO     Information     at
        https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/DocMan/DOCMain.asp?FolderID=0&Filter=OO-
        PK-AF-24
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                        7


   3.2. Source Selection. Typically, PBSA requirements are subject to full and open
   competition for contract placement. This means that the requiring activity will likely be
   involved in a source selection. Basic source selection policy is set forth in FAR 15.3. COs
   must normally follow the procedures of their owning MAJCOM in order to maintain the
   legal authority to award contracts. Other MAJCOM procedures affecting source selections
   and contract placement are Acquisition Strategy Panel (ASP), and formal or written
   acquisition planning. AFISRA contract management personnel should adapt their processes,
   as far as possible and legally required, to the procedures of the contract support office (see
   paragraph 6).
   3.3. Past Performance Evaluation. Relevant past performance information on competing
   contractors is an essential component of PBSA competitive source selections. However, in
   many cases the CO for the acquisition can waive pre-award evaluation of past performance if
   there are documented reasons to do so. DoD has made rating of past performance mandatory
   for most service contracts with an aggregate value that exceeds $1 million within a time
   period not less than 6 months or greater than 1 year. The AFISRA utilizes the web-based
   Contractor Performance Assessment Rating System (CPARS) to collect and manage the
   library of automated CPARS reports as well as to meet the Air Force’s paperless initiative
   outlined by acquisition reform. COs are responsible for overseeing the implementation of
   CPARS in their respective organizations. The designated CPARS focal point or CO can
   provide details as needed. Mandatory CO reviews of the Federal Awardee Performance and
   Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) for awards in excess of the simplified acquisition
   threshold and other responsibility determinations are addressed in FAR 9.104-6. FAPIIS is
   available through a link to the Federal Past Performance Information Retrieval System
   (PPIRS) at http://www.ppirs.gov .
4. Quality Assurance of Service Contracts.
   4.1. Government Quality Assurance (QA) Required. QA, sometimes termed Contract
   Surveillance, is mandatory for service contracts according to FAR 37.6 and supplements, and
   AFPD 64-1. QA serves several purposes: it is part of the government’s contract
   administration system; it assures that proper payments are made; and, it ensures that the
   government receives in a timely manner the quality of services for which it contracted. In a
   strict sense, surveillance is the systematic approach to performance observation that provides
   performance feedback to the government contract administrator and contractor, to ensure that
   the contractor achieved the desired results at the correct time.
   4.2. Management, Oversight, and Surveillance. The government develops its QA
   approach before it contracts for the services and includes this information in the solicitation.
   This tells the contractor how the government will perform management, oversight and
   surveillance before the contract task performance begins. Once performance begins, the
   government does not interfere with the contractor’s supervision of the people and processes
   used, but monitor the quality of the tasks performed. Quality problems found through
   surveillance are documented by contract QA personnel, and dealt with through the contract
   administration and contract payment processes, i.e., payments can be partially or completely
   withheld in the case of deficient performance. Only the CO can make the decision to
   withhold payment.
8                                                                AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


    4.3. Developing a Performance Plan. A performance plan (formerly Quality Assurance
    Surveillance Plan) to cover service contract tasks is required IAW AFI 63-124. The
    performance plan is part of the requirements package (see Attachment 5 for requirements
    package contents) that is sent to the contract support office to initiate the acquisition of
    services. Performance plans will vary in techniques and complexity depending on the
    contract type and tasks to be performed. FAR 37.604 and 46.103(a) references QA
    surveillance plans and they may still appear in contracts already in place or some outside
    agency contract vehicles. However, in the planning of new acquisitions, AFISRA/A7K will
    utilize performance plans.
       4.3.1. For most service contracts, the performance plan is prepared by the requiring
       activity functional area QAP in conjunction with the multi-functional team as part of the
       initial contract requirements package and covers all of the essential tasks identified in the
       Services Summary (or Service Delivery Summary.)
       4.3.2. For Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity and other task order contracts, it is
       difficult to know in advance all of the tasks that will be performed during the contract
       life. These contracts require developing a performance plan for each task order when the
       basic contract performance plan is deemed to provide inadequate surveillance for any
       task. In this case the plan is part of the task order requirements package.
       4.3.3. Each performance plan must specify the contractually required task outputs, how
       the government performs and documents the surveillance, and how the government will
       know that it is getting task performance in the right quantity, the proper quality, and at
       the right time. These outputs are stated in a Services Summary (or Service Delivery
       Summary) that is included in the SOW.
       4.3.4. Documenting the results of the QA activities is key to contract administration
       success. Documentation is prepared at the time of surveillance and records the positive
       and negative findings of the QAP. The documentation is filed in the office specified in
       the performance plan. The documentation is also provided, or abstracted and reported, to
       the CO in the manner and times set forth in the performance plan. See Attachment 2 for
       suggested filing of surveillance documentation. In addition, ensure compliance with
       requirements for submission of monthly color-coded ratings on contract performance
       (paragraph 1.2.5) and participation in the AFISRA Quarterly Contract Review (paragraph
       1.2.1.5).
    4.4. Training QA Personnel. The QAPC is the QA program coordinator for the Air Force
    contract support office and provides Phase I QA training to FD or FC, QAP, COTR, and
    COR personnel IAW AFI 63-124. The QAPC is also responsible for tracking Phase II
    training, which is scheduled and conducted by the cognizant contracting officer. QA
    delegations cannot be accepted by the QAP, COTR, or COR until both Phase I and Phase II
    training have been completed. Phase I training is required regardless of the number of
    contracts on which an individual is performing QA duties, whether as FD, FC, or QAP.
    Phase II training is required prior to assuming duties under each contract/task order. FDs or
    FCs shall ensure that they and their QA personnel receive training IAW AFI 63-124 and MP
    5346.103c prior to commencement of their QA duties.
    4.5. Periodic Inspection of Contract Management. Periodic inspections of the AFISRA
    contract management functions will be accomplished through Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs)
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                        9


   and AFISRA Inspector General visits. AFISRA will perform SAVs to each AFISRA
   contract management activity at least every three years. AFISRA units having subordinate
   activities will conduct contract management SAVs at least every 3 years and provide a copy
   of any reports to AFISRA/A7K.
       4.5.1. The Compliance & Standardization Requirements List for Logistics published as
       AFISRAICL 90-221, should be used during the visits and inspections of contract
       management. Contract management offices may make recommendations for revisions to
       these checklists to AFISRA/A7K.
       4.5.2. AFISRA/A7K will provide training, as determined necessary, based on the
       findings from the visits and inspections.
5. Appropriate Contract Types. The CO, together with the requiring activity, determines the
most appropriate contract type for contract and task acquisition. The CO must comply with the
requirement for executing a determination and finding IAW FAR 16.102(d) for certain contract
types. Higher-level approval may be required for these determinations as required by the FAR
and applicable supplements.
   5.1. Other FAR Permitted Contracts. There are other hybrid FAR permitted contract
   types, and each contract support office is capable of mixing these types into a contract that is
   well suited to task requirements. This decision should be made after thorough discussions
   between the contract support office and the requiring activity.
   5.2. Selecting the Contract Type. Selecting the contract type is generally a matter for
   negotiation and requires the exercise of sound judgment. The amount of effort that goes into
   contract QA and contract administration depends, in part, on using appropriate contract
   types. Sometimes the CO will have regulatory reasons for using (or not using) a particular
   type of contract. AFISRA/A7K is available, upon request, to provide training to AFISRA
   supported units on the appropriate selection of contract type.
6. Contract Support Office.
   6.1. Specifying Contract Support. Every AFISRA unit has one or more contract support
   offices (also called supporting contracting offices). For most units, one of the offices belongs
   to the host base. Unless one party wants to limit support to base operating support (BOS)
   contracts, the tenant organization should negotiate the specific terms of contracting support
   in an Intra-/Inter-Service Support Agreement (ISA) with the host unit. Be aware that tenants
   often do not get the support they bargained for unless the terms are explicit – general
   language can favor the host unit by allowing them to allocate resources according to host
   base priorities. There is no standard language to describe the contract support any particular
   organization needs. Each unit should specify that its program management, technical, and
   contract management office personnel will provide the SOWs, Performance Plans, contract
   surveillance, and Award Fee Board members (for Award Fee contracts). Units may want to
   specify that the host base MFT will (or will not – depending on how closely the host base
   mission relates to the unit’s contract requirements) have responsibility for planning and
   supporting their service contract requirements. The AFISRA/A7K and Plans and Programs
   Division (AFISRA/A4R) is available to advise AFISRA supported units in ISA negotiations.
   6.2. AFISRA Established Multi-Functional Teams (MFT). AFI 63-124 mandates the
   establishment of MFTs for every service acquisition >$100K on an installation. It is
10                                                              AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


  recommended that AFISRA units establish their own MFT(s) whenever appropriate based on
  security and convenience rationale. This will require the concurrence of the host base
  Contracting Squadron Commander (or as at AFISRA, the Chief of the Contracting Office).
  AFISRA established MFTs should follow AFI 63-124 and AFISRAI 63-1201 for purpose
  and direction. They should include the CO (and other contract support office personnel as
  needed). Include a legal advisor when needed. When the host base personnel do not possess
  sufficient security clearances to be able to make meaningful contributions, grant them
  appropriate clearances. MFT membership, acquisition planning, and source selection are
  sufficient reasons to justify the need to know information about the contract requirements.
  6.3. Other Contract Support Offices. While the extent of host support is negotiable,
  AFISRA units may find that the host base contract support office does not have the
  experience, expertise, or processes that are needed. In the long term, it is preferable to
  establish those assets in the host unit, but in the interim you may need to find other sources of
  contract support. AFISRA/A7K will assist in finding this support. Ensure that the ISA does
  not prohibit using other contract support offices (including AFISRA/A7K) when needed. For
  example, you may believe that a Defense Contract Management Agency Contract
  Administration Office (CAO) should provide the contract administration of a contract or task
  order. Only the contract support office that placed the contract can make an assignment of
  contract administration. AFISRA units are free to advocate such assignments when needed.
     6.3.1. DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) procedures.
         6.3.1.1. Refer to AFI 65-116 for mandatory MIPR procedures.
         6.3.1.2. Centers serviced by contracting organizations from other commands should
         consult the host base MAJCOM for implementation policy.
         6.3.1.3. A MIPR with a classified work requirement shall be handled carefully to
         ensure that security requirements are complied with fully.
         6.3.1.4. Centers and components serviced by AFISRA contracting offices shall
         comply with the following procedures.
             6.3.1.4.1. The minimum information forwarded with an outgoing MIPR shall
             satisfy FAR 17.504.
             6.3.1.4.2. The draft MIPR shall be created in the Automated Business Service
             System (ABSS) to allow the customer to assign a MIPR number and print out the
             DD Form 448.
             6.3.1.4.3. The initiating organization will create an Outgoing MIPR Certification
             (Attachment 5) indicating whether or not an administrative fee will be charged by
             the servicing organization and if a contract will result from the MIPR, the reason
             why the local contracting office cannot satisfy the requirement for the supplies or
             services. The certification shall include the MIPR number assigned, dollar value
             of the action and the Designated Official determinations required by AFI 63-101
             and AFI 65-116.
             6.3.1.4.4. The Division Chief of the initiating organization shall sign and date the
             Outgoing MIPR Certification and forward it along with a copy of the MIPR and
             other AFI 65-116 required documentation electronically or hard copy to
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                    11


             AFISRA/A7K for review and coordination for those MIPRs that require AFISRA
             General Officer approval.
             6.3.1.4.5. Outgoing MIPRs and any MIPR amendments thereto shall include a
             certification indicating concurrence or non-concurrence by the chief of the
             AFISRA supporting contracting office and approval/disapproval of the director or
             group commander.
             6.3.1.4.6. If the AFISRA supporting contracting office non-concurs with the
             release of a MIPR, sufficient supporting documentation will be provided to the
             director or group commander to enable them to understand the basis for the non-
             concurrence prior to the director or group commander rendering a decision to
             approve or disapprove the requested action.
             6.3.1.4.7. Once coordination with contracting and the SDO are complete and
             director or group commander signature obtained, the completed/signed Outgoing
             MIPR Certification shall be scanned and included as a supplemental file to the
             MIPR in the ABSS.
             6.3.1.4.8. All MIPRs shall include the AFISRA contracting office in the routing
             of MIPR documents to ensure coordination has been accomplished prior to
             certification by the Accounting Liaison Office (ALO). If the initiating
             organization does not have ABSS access, contact the contracting office for
             instructions.
             6.3.1.4.9. After award of a task for contracted services, the functional area chief
             of the MIPR originator will ensure that surveillance of the effort will result in
             delivery according to the contract.
  6.4. Building a Support Relationship. The relationship between the requiring activity and
  the contract support office can be harmonious and mutually beneficial if some basic
  principles are understood. The requiring activity should have some voice in how a contract is
  awarded. It controls the flow of tasks and money through the contract support office to the
  contractor, and it provides QA and performance surveillance. However, the contract support
  office controls the contract, the contractor, and, ultimately, the conformance of the work to
  the contract terms. By law, the contracting officer (CO) is responsible for the contract, from
  award through completion, and this cannot be changed or negotiated away. Cooperation and
  teamwork are essential to successful service contract management.
  6.5. Interpreting the Contract. Most contract provisions are subject to interpretation. For
  the government, it is the CO’s interpretation that is most important. The CO's interpretation
  is influenced by experience, training, and judgment. As a result, some common contract
  management processes will vary a little between COs. These include the documentation and
  justification required to request a formal contract modification; the extent, if any, that
  changes can be made without requiring a formal contract modification; the specific contract
  procedures for acceptance of contract performance and processing of contractor payments;
  and use of warranties. Other processes, such as processing protests and claims are highly
  regulated by the FAR and other regulations and will vary little between COs. The CO will
  explain most of these processes during the Phase II QA training. If in doubt, always ask the
  CO how the specific processes work on each contract.
 12                                                             AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


   6.6. QA Records and Recordkeeping. The contract management process will generate a
   lot of records, both paper and electronic. For the most part, these records will be part of the
   official contract record. The CO will provide direction on the closeout and disposition of the
   contract QA and contract management documentation. Contact the CO for specific direction
   as needed.
7. Working in Proximity with Contractor Personnel.
   7.1. Contractor Personnel and Government Personnel. Contractor personnel are not just
   like government personnel. Working with contractor personnel in government office spaces
   creates situations where government personnel need to be vigilant in their awareness that
   these personnel do not have the same rights and access to information that government
   personnel have.
      7.1.1. Contractor personnel need to know only the information that is essential for task
      performance. Government personnel should be aware at all times who is working with
      them and around them so as to maintain a professional working atmosphere and to protect
      the government by proper information and communication security measures.
      7.1.2. The ideas, processes, personnel, financial data, and past performance information
      of other contractors are examples of the data that requires protection from contractor
      personnel in the workplace. Also of concern, is the inadvertent casual release of source
      selection information. The CO and the Source Selection Authority have specific roles in
      the protection of source selection information as defined in AFFARS MP5315.3,
      paragraph 4.2, Protection of Source Selection Documentation.
      7.1.3. FAR 9.505-4 outlines some circumstances in which proprietary information may
      be accessed by contractor personnel and indicates some possible safeguards. The
      requiring activity should contact their servicing contracting office for guidance in those
      circumstances.
   7.2. Contractor Responsibilities. Contractor personnel can be effective team members and
   provide a valuable functionality within the government workplace. To get full value from
   our service contracts, we need to be straightforward about contractor and contractor
   personnel responsibilities. Contractor personnel and government personnel need to
   understand the limits. There are four basic limits that deserve special emphasis: First,
   contractors cannot perform inherently governmental functions. Second, even if performing
   on a personal service contract, they are not government personnel and work is limited to the
   tasks stated in the contract documents. Third, regardless of security rules and clearances,
   contractor personnel are restricted in the information they can be given. Fourth, contractor
   personnel are under the day-to-day direction of the contractor, not the government.
8. Acceptance and Payment.
   8.1. Paying the Contractor. Payment to the contractor for tasks performed is one of the
   government’s obligations under a contract. The government expects the contractor to meet
   all contract requirements for quality, quantity, and timeliness. The contractor expects the
   government to meet its obligation of timely, accurate payment for supplies and services
   received.
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                       13


   8.2. Accepting Services. Acceptance of contractor work and payment authorization for
   contractor invoices are inherently governmental and an essential element in discharging the
   government’s responsibility to make timely and accurate payment for contract services. It is
   the QAP, whether they are called QAPs, COTRs, CORs, or some other term, that are in the
   best position to assess the adequacy of the contractor’s task performance. QAPs will certify
   that the task performance is satisfactory usually by electronic acceptance via Wide Area
   Workflow. This makes the QA person responsible for acceptance, not necessarily final
   acceptance, of the services. As noted in paragraph 4.4, the QAP must have completed Phase
   II training and receive a delegation letter from the CO prior to signing invoices. The detailed
   procedures can vary from contract to contract. The CO will provide specific procedures
   during Phase II QA training and during the post award conference, if one is conducted.
   8.3. False Payment Claims. Legally, a contractor’s invoice is a claim - a contract claim. A
   false claim by the contractor violates federal statutes and can be a civil violation or criminal
   act. To ensure that invoices and payments are based upon the actual task performance of the
   contractor, surveillance monitoring of the contractor (including review of monthly reports,
   on-site visits, customer interviews, and other surveillance techniques) is performed by QAP.
   False claims start a process that can be treacherous for the contractor, the person certifying
   the invoice, and the contracting officer.
   8.4. False Certification of Receipt. False certification of contractor performance by
   government surveillance personnel is a failure to exercise due diligence, or could be a fraud
   if it results from a willful disregard of the facts. Either way, certifications made by
   surveillance personnel expressly imply that work is progressing according to the contract.
   QAP should make sure of the facts before they certify any invoice.
   8.5. Timeliness of Services. Timeliness of services is an important element of contractor
   performance. If late delivery affects the value of the services to the government, the CO may
   determine to withhold some or all of the payments for the late services. This is a judgmental
   matter and QAP should always contact the CO before processing a contractor invoice that
   includes payment for late services. Similarly, any delays in contract performance should be
   brought to the attention of the CO.
9. Contract Deliverable Tracking System. Use of a contract deliverable tracking system is
required for every AFISRA service contract. It contains the following minimum information:
contract/order number; period of performance; POCs including the SOW POC, CO, CA, QAP,
FC, or FD; identification of deliverables including schedule and current status; performance
reports (copies and drafts); performance issues (status and date of CO or CA notice). An
example is shown in Attachment 3. It is a unit’s option what formats and processes should be
used. It is recommended that the tracking system be handled electronically (spreadsheet or
database are recommended), and be self-explanatory. Whatever format is used, the tracking
system must be kept current so that all contract performance issues and points of contact are
known at every point in time.




                                             BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                             Commander
 14                                                           AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 7 December 2006
AFI 63-124, Performance Based Service Acquisition, 1 August 2005
AFI 63-501, Air Force Acquisition Quality Program, 31 May 1994
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 65-116, Air Force Purchases Using Military Interdepartmental Purchase Requests
(MIPRS), 29 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFISRAICL 90-221, Compliance & Standardization Requirements List (C&SRL) –Logistics, 26
August 2008
AFISRAI 63-1201, Multi-Functional Team for Performance-Based Services Acquisition (PBSA),
29 November 2007
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 37, Service Contracting (available at
http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vffara.htm)
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) Part 237, Service Contracts
(available at http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vffara.htm)
Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS) Part 5337, Service Contracting
(available at http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vffara.htm)
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 42, Contract Administration and Audit Services
(available at http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vffara.htm)
Office of Federal Procurement Policy Letter 93-1, Management Oversight of Service
Contracting, 18 May 1994
Department of Defense Handbook MIL-HDBK-245D, Handbook for Preparation of Statement
of Work (SOW), 3 April 1996
Department of Defense Directive 4205.2, Acquiring and Managing Contracted Advisory and
Assistance Services (CAAS), 10 February 1992
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental
Support, 9 August 1995
AT&L Knowledge Sharing System (formerly Defense Acquisition Deskbook,) available at
https://akss.dau.mil/default.aspx
Records Disposition Schedule available at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
SAF/AQC Contracting Toolkit’s link to PBSA information available at
https://www.safaq.hq.af.mil/contracting/affars/5337/library-5337.html
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                         15


Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR), June 1972

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&AS—Advisory and Assistance Services
AF—Air Force Instruction
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance Agency
AFISRAI—Air Force Intelligence Surveillance & Reconnaissance Agency Instruction
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
ASP—Acquisition Strategy Panel
BOS—Base Operational Support
CA—Contract Administrator
CO—Contracting Officer
COR—Contracting Officer’s Representative
COTR—Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative
CPARS—Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System
DDD—Determination/Decision Document
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
FC—Functional Commander
FD—Functional Director
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
IG—Inspector General
ISA—Intra/Inter-Service Support Agreement
MAJCOM—Major Command (Air Force)
MFT—Multi-Functional Team
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
PBSA—Performance Based Service Acquisition
PPI—Past Performance Information
 16                                                              AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


PWS—Performance Work Statement
QAPC—Quality Assurance Program Coordinator
QAP—Quality Assurance Personnel
QASP—Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
SDO—Services Designated Official
SS—Services Summary (also known previously as Service Delivery Summary (SDS)
SOO—Statement of Objectives
SOW—Statement of Work
SSA—Source Selection Authority

Terms
Contract Administrator— A contract administrator is an individual assigned to assist the
Contracting Officer in the placement, negotiation, administration, or close out of a contractual
action.
Contracting Officer— As used in this instruction, contracting officer means a person with the
authority to enter into, administer, and, or terminate contracts and make related determinations
and findings.
Cost Plus Award Fee— Cost Plus Award Fee contracts are cost reimbursement contracts that
provides for payment to the contractor at a fee consisting of a base amount (like a fixed fee),
fixed at the beginning of the contract; and an award amount which is based upon a judgmental
evaluation by the government. The government chooses its evaluation criteria to provide a
positive motivation for desired contractor behavior. This type of contract can be highly
motivating to contractors if the award amount is substantial and the evaluation criteria are work
aspects that the contractor can control or influence.
Cost Plus Fixed Fee— Cost Plus Fixed Fee contracts are cost reimbursement contracts that
provide for payment to the contractor at a negotiated fee that is fixed at the beginning of the
contract. This fixed fee does not vary for any reason, whether performance is good or bad; but it
is adjusted if the scope of the contract work is changed. This type of contract provides some
monetary incentive for the contractor to be efficient. A cost ceiling is established to limit the
amount the contractor can spend to produce the end results specified. If no end result is stated,
the contract loses this incentive.
Fixed Price— Fixed Price types of contracts provide for a firm price, either for the entire
contract or for various tasks or task elements. In some cases, an adjustable fixed price may be
included. This can involve a ceiling price, a target price (including target cost), or both that are
subject to specific adjustments stated in the contract clauses; or, may involve using an
independent economic index to adjust the prices. The contracting officer shall use firm-fixed
price (FFP) or firm-fixed price with economic price adjustment (FFP-EPA) contracts when
acquiring commercial items. Fixed price contracts have the greatest contractor monetary
incentive possible since each extra dollar spent on inefficient performance is a dollar of lost
profit. Fixed price contracts can also create disincentives when the desired end results are not
clear and the cost of performance has reduced profits.
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                       17


Functional Commander or Functional Director— The functional commander or functional
director is the government official responsible for a functional office for which the services are
provided. This is frequently the chief of the requiring activity, i.e., the senior end user of the
contracted services.
Performance Plan— Prescribes the objective in having the services, the goals of the multi-
functional team, team members and their roles and responsibilities (to include the contractor
performing the service), and how the multi-functional team will assess contractor performance
and manage the contract to obtain efficiencies, improved performance, and cost savings
throughout its life cycle.
Quality Assurance Personnel— Quality assurance personnel are those persons assigned by the
contracting officer to monitor contractor performance. This may include surveillance,
scheduling, record keeping, and acceptance of contractor performance.
Quality Assurance Program Coordinator— The individual appointed pursuant to AFI 63-124,
paragraph 1.2.6, responsible to coordinate the base’s quality assurance program and to conduct
and monitor training of quality assurance personnel.
Services Designated Official— The individual authorized to exercise responsibility for the
management and oversight of the acquisition of services. These responsibilities include ensuring
services acquisitions are at least 50 percent or more performance-based; approving, in advance,
any acquisition that is not performance-based; approving the acquisition of services procured
through the use of a contract or task order being awarded by an agency other than DoD, and
conducting an annual review of service contracts under governance.
Time and Materials or Labor Hour— Time and Materials or Labor Hour contract provides for
acquiring supplies and services on the basis of direct labor hours and specified fixed hourly rates
that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, profit, and materials (at cost
to include material handling costs if appropriate). These types of contract are logically, and
historically, not efficient. They provide no monetary incentive for the contractor to do the best
work possible or to use the best people available.
 18                                                             AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


                                         Attachment 2
                     CONTRACT MANAGEMENT FILE CONTENTS

A2.1. Contracts. For contracts, the management files will contain:
   A2.1.1. Copy of contract.
   A2.1.2. All contract level modifications.
   A2.1.3. Contract-level SOW.
   A2.1.4. FD or FC QAP/COR/COTR appointment letters.
   A2.1.5. CO letter of designation/delegation to QAP/COR/COTR.
   A2.1.6. QAE/COR/COTR training documentation.
   A2.1.7. Performance Plan – contract level.
   A2.1.8. Log of surveillance activities, including reports to CO or CA.
   A2.1.9. Documentation of surveillance findings and reporting.
   A2.1.10. Deliverable tracking system.
   A2.1.11. Copies of QAP/COR/COTR correspondence with the contractor.
   A2.1.12. Names of technical and administrative personnel assisting the QAP and any other
   information pertaining to the contract.
Note: Items A2.1.1. through A2.1.7. should be contained in a single readily available folder.
A2.2. Task Orders. For task orders, the management files will contain the:
   A2.2.1. Task order with a copy of the delivery order level SOW.
   A2.2.2. Any task order modifications.
   A2.2.3. Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan/Performance Plan – task order level.
   A2.2.4. Log of surveillance activities.
   A2.2.5. Copies of contractor invoices.
   A2.2.6. Payment history including: date of invoice, date of invoice certification for payment
   or receiving report, date of payment, amount invoiced, amount certified, amount paid,
   explanation of any payment hold backs or disallowances, cumulative amount invoiced and
   cumulative amount paid.
   A2.2.7. Copies of QAP correspondence on the task order between the QAP and contractor.
   A2.2.8. Names of technical and administrative personnel assisting the QAP on this task
   order.
   A2.2.9. Contractor status reports and any other information pertaining to this task order.
AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011                                                                     19


                                         Attachment 3
                   CONTRACT DELIVERABLE TRACKING SYSTEM

A3.1. Purpose. This example is suitable for use by contract management personnel to comply
with paragraph 9 of this instruction.

Table A3.1. Example.
    Monthly CDRL F41621-99-X-XXXX                  CO=Jane Doe       CA=John Dow
             check

CDRL                 DUE DATE                      STATUS            COMMENTS
     A0001-C                10 days ARO            Delivered         POP=1 May 99-30 Apr 00
     A0001-G            15 days after receipt of   Pending
                                report
       A0002-C           By 10th of the month      Overdue*
                                                   1




-C=Contractor CDRL responsibility
-G=Government CDRL responsibility

*1-Contractor was contacted and reports were sent to the wrong address. Contractor is re-sending to
the
Correct address.

POP: Period of Performance, i.e., the starting and ending dates of the time allowed for performance
of the services.
ARO: After receipt of order. Some PoPs are stated as a period of time (e.g., 90 days) after the
contractor receives the order.
 20                                                           AFISRAI64-101 23 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 4
                        REQUIREMENTS PACKAGE CONTENTS

A4.1. Purpose. At a minimum, the following will be included in AFISRA requirements
packages submitted to contract support offices for contracts or orders under contracts:
A4.2. Purchase Request and Purchase Description. Include:
   A4.2.1. CLIN descriptions.
   A4.2.2. Desired contract types.
A4.3. Performance Work Statement (or SOW/SOO). Use a standard format IAW AFI 63-
124 with at a minimum:
   A4.3.1. Description of Services/General Information.
   A4.3.2. Services Summary (formerly SDS)
   A4.3.3. Government-Furnished Property and Services if applicable
   A4.3.4. Appendices as necessary.
A4.4. Data Items and CDRLs. All CDRL items completed to show entries for block 7 and
blocks 10 through 15 (for Indefinite Delivery basic contracts, the blocks that will change with
each task order should be completed, See Task Order.)
A4.5. Performance Plan.
A4.6. A&AS Documentation. Properly completed, signed and approved.
A4.7. Program Designations and Clearances:
   A4.7.1. QAP designation by FD or FC (with summary of prior experience).
   A4.7.2. Computer Specification Requirements Documents (CSRDs) (if for information
   technology).
   A4.7.3. DP/DPC approvals (if personal service).
   A4.7.4. J&A approval (if competition is limited).
   A4.7.5. Economy Act Determination and Findings (D&F) (if funds will be sent to another
   organization by MIPR).
A4.8. DD Form 254 and Attachments.
A4.9. Independent Government Estimate.
A4.10. Basis for evaluation of offers (if competitive).
A4.11. Identification of contract management personnel:
   A4.11.1. FD or FC, QAP/COR/COTR with dates of Phase I training completion.
   A4.11.2. SOW or SOO POC.
   A4.11.3. Project Manager.
