BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                                        32-1003
SURVEILLANCE AND
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY                                                              28 JULY 2011

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                         INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITY
                                                                 ASSESSMENT PROCESS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/A7C                                                        Certified by: AFISRA/4/7
                                                                         (Colonel Eric J. Payne)
                                                                                        Pages: 9


This publication implements AFPD 33-10, Installation and Facilities. It establishes the Air
Force Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA) Infrastructure and
Facility Assessment Process (IFAP), which includes the AFISRA Infrastructure and Facility
Assessment Team (IFAT). It explains the structure of IFAT. This instruction identifies primary
functions, responsibilities, and interrelationships of the team and applies to all AFISRA wings,
centers, groups, squadrons, and detachments, to include when they are addressing requirements
with associated Air National Guard (NGB) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Maintain
records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in this directory in accordance
with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.

1. Introduction.
   1.1. The IFAP was created as a tool to assist the AFISRA Capabilities Investment Strategy.
   IFAT was the recommendation of an Integrated Process Team (IPT) composed of elements
   of the previous Air Intelligence Agency (AIA) XP, DO, LG and 690th Information
   Operations Group (IOG). The IFAP was established to assist AFISRA, wings, centers and
   unit commanders with planning and programming for upgrading infrastructure, mission,
 2                                                              AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011


     facility and communication and computer systems in order to meet their mission objectives.
     The IFAP goal is to link infrastructure, mission, facility, communication and computer
     system requirements to mission, products and customers, thus ultimately enabling AFISRA
     to make fact-based, informed, budgetary and program decisions and appropriately allocate
     resources.
     1.2. The IFAT periodically assesses units that are fully operationally capable and have no
     communications or civil engineering personnel assigned at the group or lower level. Units
     with communications or civil engineering personnel assigned at the group or lower level are
     assessed upon request of the unit. Additionally, IFAT will also assess units if necessary due
     to mission change or growth, completion of major facility or communications infrastructure
     renovations, infrastructure related reduction in mission capability, or similar situations. All
     assessments are funded by the Agency and are typically planned and accomplished by
     theaters and regions (PACAF, USAFE, CONUS West, CONUS East, and Texas). Typical
     visits last from four to five working days per unit. When multiple units are located in the
     same geographical location, attempts will be made to assess all units in one trip.
2. Purpose. The IFAT’s primary purpose is to assess the status of infrastructure, mission,
facility, communication and computer systems and provide recommendations to ensure
continued future mission support/accomplishment. As part of this assessment, the IFAT reviews
support agreements, memorandums of agreement and memorandums of understandings.
3. Definition. Assessed areas are classified into two categories: focus areas and cursory look
areas.
     3.1. Focus areas include those systems critical to mission accomplishment. Each system
     within this area receives an in-depth evaluation, status rating color and where applicable,
     documentation of equipment.
        3.1.1. Facility systems focus areas are electrical systems, heating, ventilation and air
        conditioning (HVAC) systems, roofing systems, antenna support structure systems and
        emergency management (EM).
        3.1.2. Information Technology (IT) focus areas are long-haul communications, networks
        and infrastructures and computer systems, or any communications issue deemed essential
        by the unit’s commander.
     3.2. Cursory look areas are either, 1) important infrastructure systems or programs which do
     not directly support mission systems/accomplishment or, 2) items of “Special Interest” to
     AFISRA units.      Examples are telephones, quality of life issues, environmental issues,
     manning, training, safety and fire protection and security. Such systems do not receive an
     in-depth evaluation.
        3.2.1. Facility system cursory look areas are fire detection/protection systems, security
        alarm systems, mass notification systems, document destruction systems and
        environmental management programs.
        3.2.2. IT cursory look areas are architecture, telephone, 3Dxxx manning, cryptologic
        devices, equipment support and IT related training.
AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011                                                                    3


4. Criteria. The ability of critical systems, critical systems infrastructure, critical systems
facility infrastructure and spaces to support existing and known future mission requirements is
evaluated and assigned a condition code—red, yellow or green.
   4.1. Red (critical) indicates there is a high probability of significant loss of mission
   capability; work arounds cause mission disruptions or degradation of mission effectiveness.
   4.2. Yellow (degraded) indicates there is a probability of limited loss of mission capability;
   work-a-rounds are often required for mission accomplishment.
   4.3. Green (new or essential) indicates there is marginal or no impact on operational
   capability; work-a-rounds may sometimes be required.
5. Responsibilities.
   5.1. The AFISRA Commander will establish an AFISRA Infrastructure and Facility
   Assessment program composed of elements from AFISRA/A7C, AFISRA/A6X and the 38
   CEG. The program’s primary goal is to assist AFISRA wing, center and unit commanders in
   planning and programming for infrastructure, mission, facility, communication and computer
   system requirements within the real property and equipment assigned to AFISRA in order to
   meet their mission objectives.
   5.2. The AFISRA/A7C will:
       5.2.1. Manage the AFISRA IFAP.
       5.2.2. Act as the AFISRA focal point for all IFAT issues.
       5.2.3. Identify and track process shortfalls and best practices.
       5.2.4. Evaluate and assess electrical, HVAC, roofing and fire protection systems, antenna
       support systems and emergency management programs.
       5.2.5. Provide recommendations and solutions for addressing deficiencies with
       aforementioned systems and programs.
       5.2.6. Assist units with planning and programming facility infrastructure solutions in
       response to identified deficiencies.
       5.2.7. Track and ensure identified facility project requirements are submitted for funding
       consideration by the AFISRA Civil Engineer Facility Corporate process.
       5.2.8. Notify HQ AFRC and NGB when an IFAT will be executed at Total Force
       Integration (TFI)/associated units.
   5.3. The AFISRA/A6X will:
       5.3.1. Serve as the focal point for all communication issues and will assist AFISRA/A7C
       as needed in the execution of the IFAT process.
       5.3.2. Coordinate with the 38 Cyberspace Engineering Group (CEG) for System
       Telecommunication Engineering Manager (STEM) and 668th Alterations and Installation
       Squadron (ALIS) support and fund the travel of the 38 CEG’s representative.
       5.3.3. Evaluate and assess the communications and IT infrastructure of the unit under
       assessment and provide assistance with identifying, reporting and tracking deficiencies.
       Provide assistance with Sensor Bus Program and Budget Execution Report submission.
 4                                                              AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011


        5.3.4. Serve as the focal point and provide guidance to the units for Communications
        Information System Installation Records (CSIR) compliance.
     5.4. The unit Commander under assessment will:
        5.4.1. Provide the IFAT leader with points of contact prior to team arrival.
        5.4.2. Assign a local action officer, as needed, to assist the team with security issues,
        billeting assistance and CONUS/OCONUS unit access.
        5.4.3. Provide the IFAT with a mission briefing upon arrival.
        5.4.4. Appoint a unit focal point for IFAT follow-up actions.
6. Deliverables.
     6.1. The AFISRA IFAT leader will:
        6.1.1. Provide the assessed Unit Commander with:
            6.1.1.1. An IFAT Agenda.
            6.1.1.2. An IFAT in-brief.
            6.1.1.3. A detailed IFAT report that will include a list of all identified deficiencies
            requiring correction.
            6.1.1.4. An IFAT out-brief.
            6.1.1.5. A list of contacts.
            6.1.1.6. A list of action items. Team functional will follow-up on team action items.
7. Process Description.
     7.1. IFAT Requirements Execution for Facility Infrastructure (see Attachment 3).
        7.1.1. IFAT assesses facility infrastructure and identifies project fixes, upgrades,
        retrofits, etc. necessary to ensure support of existing and/or future mission capabilities as
        discussed in paragraph 5.2. Working in conjunction with the assessed unit, the IFAT will
        complete host required documentation for establishing a requirement within their system
        (e.g., Base Civil Engineer (BCE) requires an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
        Request for all facility work requirements).
        7.1.2. Specific funding responsibilities for facility infrastructure requirements are
        identified in the host-tenant memorandum of agreement. Typically, the host is
        responsible for all sustainment (e.g. maintenance and repair of existing systems)
        requirements and most restoration and modernization requirements.
        7.1.3. Once requirements are formally accepted by the host through acceptance/approval
        of a requirements document, the funding issue must be addressed. Units have two
        avenues to advocate for funding. The first and primary option is through the host BCE
        facility prioritization process (e.g., Facility Utilization Board, Customer Care Program,
        Top 10, etc). To increase chances of funding, unit CCs need to ensure they are actively
        involved in the host prioritization process. If host BCE can’t/won’t fund, the other option
        is through the AFISRA/A7C.
AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011                                                                    5


     7.1.4. Twice a year, the AFISRA/A7C convenes a Civil Engineer Facility Working
     Group Conference. Prior to this conference, AFISRA/A4/7 issues a data call for wings
     and centers to submit their prioritized facility project listings. AFISRA/A7C reviews
     these listings for validity and to ensure previously identified IFAT projects/requirements
     are included. During the conference, wing/center engineers and AFISRA/A7C establish
     an integrated priority listing of all projects, which is then presented through the AFISRA
     corporate process for approval.
     7.1.5. AFISRA/CC approved priority listing is disseminated to wings/centers which must
     then work with the host BCE to get projects ready to advertise/award. Once projects are
     at this stage, units/centers submit funding request letters to AFISRA/A7C. AFISRA/A7C
     reviews/validates request and funds accordingly.
  7.2. IFAT Communications Deficiency Tracking Flow Chart (see Attachment 4).
     7.2.1. IFAT AFISRA/A6X representative assesses communications infrastructure,
     requirements and long haul circuits necessary to ensure mission capabilities. Upon
     conclusion of the assessment, the unit Commander is briefed on all identified
     communication deficiencies and presented with a formal report of all findings.
     7.2.2. On return to station, the AFISRA/A6X representative provides a trip report to the
     AFISRA/A6 leadership on all findings, assigns tracking numbers to all deficiencies and
     forwards a record of the deficiencies to the applicable wings and centers for resolution.
     7.2.3. AFISRA/A6X works with the Wings and Centers to resolve assessed deficiencies
     and is updated quarterly as to the progress of all deficiencies by the wings and centers. As
     requested by the AFISRA/A6, AFISRA/A6X provides a periodic update on the status of
     all open deficiencies.
     7.2.4. AFISRA/A6X will continue to track and report to AFISRA/A6 on all deficiencies
     until resolved or closed.




                                           ROBERT P. OTTO, Maj Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                      AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-10, Installation and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence Surveillance & Reconnaissance Agency
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
NGB—National Guard Bureau (Air National Guard)
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CEG—Cyberspace Engineering Group
CSIR—Communications Information System Installation Record
EM—Emergency Management
HVAC—Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
IAW—In Accordance With
IFAP—Infrastructure and Facility Assessment Process
IFAT—Infrastructure and Facility Assessment Team
IPT—Integrated Process Team
IT—Information Technology
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
STEM—System Telecommunication Engineering Manager
TFI—Total Force Integration
AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011                         7


                              Attachment 2
                  IFAT SCHEDULE PROCESS FLOWCHART
8                                       AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011


                         Attachment 3
    IFAT & AFISRA FACILITY REQUIREMENTS EXECUTION PROGRAM
                           FLOWCHART
AFISRAI32-1003 28 JULY 2011                                9


                              Attachment 4
       IFAT COMMUNICATIONS DEFICIENCY TRACKING FLOWCHART
