BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                      AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE,                                                          INSTRUCTION 36-1101
SURVEILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE                                                       28 FEBRUARY 2008
AGENCY
                                                                                         Civilian Personnel

                                                                            MERIT PROMOTION PLAN




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to
                        www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF ISRA/A1X                                                       Certified by: AF ISR AGENCY/A1
                                                                                  (Ms. Theresa L. Sanchez)
Supersedes AIAI 36-2811, 8 March 2002                                                             Pages: 7

The AF ISR Agency DCIPS (Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System) Merit Promotion Plan is
developed under the authority of DOD 1400.34-M, DoD Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management
System (CIPMS) Procedures and AFI 36-1101, Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System.
Since most serviced positions are in the excepted service and under the same appointing authority,
AFMAN 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions, applies only to the extent practicable. This Merit Promotion
Plan is established to provide systematic, equitable and streamlined candidate referral practices for select-
ing employees for promotion. This plan is used in conjunction with DoD 1400.34-M, DCIPS authorities
provided under 10 U.S.C 1601, and AFI 36-1101. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed pro-
cesses IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Dispo-
sition Schedule (RDS) at https://AFRIMS.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document contains minor changes to include the new designation of the Air Intelligence Agency
(AIA) to the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AF ISR Agency) and
minor editorial changes.


1. Key Principles.
   1.1. This plan is established to increase managerial involvement and authority in the promotion and
   placement decision-making process and to more closely align promotions to performance.
   1.2. This plan is established to take full advantage of all DCIPS and excepted service authorities.
2                                                                AFISRAI36-1101 28 FEBRUARY 2008


    1.3. Candidates are identified, evaluated, and selected without regard to political, religious, marital
    status, race, color, sex, national origin, non-disqualifying disability, or age.
    1.4. This plan establishes areas of consideration to provide management with an adequate number of
    high quality candidates from which to choose and to provide for flexibility as needed to promote effi-
    ciency of the placement process.
    1.5. All qualified permanent employees within a designated area of consideration are eligible for pro-
    motion consideration, except: 1) employees having a current performance appraisal rating of Unac-
    ceptable will not be referred; 2) employees whose security clearance and/or access are suspended or
    revoked will not be referred for positions requiring a security clearance; 3) employees occupying for-
    mal trainee positions will not be considered for other trainee positions with the same series as the posi-
    tion occupied, unless the target grade is higher than current target grade; and 4) PALACE Acquire and
    COPPER CAP interns who have not fully completed the requirements of their respective programs.
    1.6. DCIPS qualification standards and criteria will be used when available. In the absence of DCIPS
    qualification criteria, Office of Personnel Management (OPM) qualification standards will normally
    constitute the minimum qualification requirement for appointments, promotions, and reassignment or
    change-to-lower grade to positions with known promotion potential. Exceptions may be approved by
    the AF ISR Agency/A1 when determined to be in the best interest of the mission and merit principles.
    Exceptions may be approved by the AF ISR Agency/A1.
    1.7. Minimum education, certification, and license requirements contained in the OPM qualification
    standards apply to covered positions unless superseded by a DCIPS standard.
    1.8. Managers and supervisors are responsible for the movement of employees into and between posi-
    tions by accurately prescribing the Knowledges, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for positions,
    and evaluating the qualifications of individuals referred by AFPC for positions.

2. Areas of Consideration. Areas of consideration are established in coordination with management
officials and are based on anticipated availability of quality candidates and special emphasis program
requirements. They may be organizational, geographical, based on categories of positions, or a combina-
tion of these. The minimum area of consideration for GG-15’s is normally Air Force-wide. Exceptions
must be coordinated with the AF ISR Agency/A1.

3. The Right to Select or Nonselect From Among a Group of Best Qualified Candidates. Managers
have the right and responsibility to select employees from any appropriate source most likely to meet mis-
sion objectives, affirmative employment objectives, and to improve the acquisition, professional develop-
ment, and long-term retention of a quality civilian work force within the Air Force Intelligence
Community. Candidates from various sources may be considered concurrently or successively.

4. General Coverage. DCIPS appointments are excepted by statute under 10 U.S.C. 1601. This plan
applies to all permanent civilian employees serviced by the AF ISR Agency/A1 except Defense Intelli-
gence Senior Executive Service (DISES), Defense Intelligence Senior Level (DISL), and other serviced
organizations with a separate Merit Promotion Plan. This plan also applies when competitive procedures
are applied to selections for training.
AFISRAI36-1101 28 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                            3


5. Promotions. To help ensure efficient use of limited resources and provide for optimal support of the
intelligence community mission, employees will be considered for promotion in the following order of
priority whenever possible: Non-Competitive, Level I Competition, and Level II Competition.
   5.1. Non-Competitive.
       5.1.1. Employees may be promoted non-competitively to a grade not higher than previously held
       in the federal service. The higher grade must have been held on a permanent basis, except when
       the proposed non-competitive action is from a temporary position to another temporary position.
       5.1.2. Employees may be promoted non-competitively up to one grade or grade interval within
       their respective grade band. Four grade bands have been established as follows:

Table 1. Grade Bands.
                              (1)                   (2)                   (3)                   (4)
GG Grades                   1234                 56789               10 11 12 13              14 15
Professional                 -----                 Entry          Full Performance            Expert
Administrative               -----                 Entry          Full Performance            Expert
Technician                   Entry          Full Performance            Expert                 -----
Clerical                     Entry          Full Performance             -----                 -----

           5.1.2.1. The following conditions apply: 1) the employee fully meets qualification and quality
           of experience requirements (this normally includes one year of quality experience at the next
           lower grade; or if approved by the AF ISR Agency/A1 Civilian Appointing Authority one year
           quality experience within the grade band); 2) affirmative employment and equal employment
           opportunity (EEO) objectives have been considered in the selection process; 3) at a minimum,
           all qualified employees under the same selecting supervisor have been considered; 4) Compet-
           itive procedures apply for movement between grade bands, see 5.2. or 5.3.
       5.1.3. Employees on positions with known promotion potential may be non-competitively pro-
       moted.
           5.1.3.1. The position was identified as the target position to which the employee is to advance
           without competition. Employees must have completed any training requirements, demon-
           strated ability to perform the higher level duties as certified by the supervisor, and meet quali-
           fication requirements.
       5.1.4. Employees may be non-competitively promoted through a classification action if the reason
       for upgrading is reconstitution of the incumbent’s position into a successor position with clearly
       and solely identifiable duties of the former position, and there are no other employees serving in
       similar or identical positions to whom the duties could be assigned.
       5.1.5. Employees may be reassigned non-competitively to a position with no known promotion
       potential if they meet basic requirements and losing and gaining supervisors agree. Management
       officials may also direct the reassignment of an employee to a position within their organization.
       Voluntary change to lower grade at the employees request may be non-competitively processed if
       the employee meets basic requirements.
4                                                              AFISRAI36-1101 28 FEBRUARY 2008


    5.2. Level I Competition. When a determination has been made that Non-Competitive promotion is
    not warranted, employees should be considered as follows:
       5.2.1. Management should define an area of consideration most likely to provide an adequate
       number of high quality candidates. Area of consideration may be organizational, geographic, or
       occupational or combination of these.
       5.2.2. Area of consideration is determined on a case-by-case basis. There must be a reasonable
       expectation that the area of consideration will produce a sufficient number of highly qualified eli-
       gibles (normally three or more per vacancy). Mission requirements, merit principles, and affirma-
       tive employment objectives should be considered in making an area of consideration
       determination. Normally, the following areas of consideration will be used successively:
           5.2.2.1. Employees under the selecting official’s immediate supervision.
           5.2.2.2. Employees by organizational level (e.g. section, unit, branch, division, etc.).
           5.2.2.3. Employees occupying certain occupations within a defined organizational level
           5.2.2.4. Employees within a specified geographical area.
           5.2.2.5. All employees under the command of a director, wing or center commander, group
           commander, flight commander, etc.).
       5.2.3. If the area of consideration requires the publication of a vacancy announcement, only
       employees within the prescribed area of consideration may apply. Candidates will self-nominate
       (apply) directly to AFPC, Randolph AFB TX.
       5.2.4. Alternate Certification. An employee may be selected, absent full certification, if after
       the full competitive process has been accomplished, the employee has been determined to be
       among the group of “best qualified” candidates who would have been referred on a certificate.
       This provision applies to current permanent Air Force civilian employees only.
    5.3. Level II Competition. Upon determination by management that 5.1. and 5.2. have been
    exhausted, the area of consideration may be extended AF-wide, DoD-wide, and/or Federal Ser-
    vice-wide.

6. Details. A detail is the temporary assignment of an employee to another position with no change to
compensation. The employee continues to occupy the position from which detailed. Employees need not
meet qualification requirements to be eligible for details, except that minimum education, certification,
and or license requirements must be met unless superseded by a DCIPS standard. Normally, details will
not exceed one year. Supervisors should submit a Request for Personnel Action (RPA) for details of 120
days or more to assure proper credit for experience gained. Details of less than 120 days may be docu-
mented by submitting an Optional Form 612, Optional Application for Federal Employment, to the ser-
vicing civilian personnel flight with supervisor’s written certification of work experience claimed.
    6.1. Higher Grade Details. Details to a higher grade of 120 days or less may be noncompetitive.
    Details greater than 120 days must be competitive. Details to a higher grade of up to one year in dura-
    tion may be non-competitive if within the employee’s current grade band.

7. External Applicants. Management may consider applicants from any source.
AFISRAI36-1101 28 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                             5


   7.1. Candidates new to Federal Civil Service may be considered without formal open competition
   when there is a shortage of qualified candidates, or when the combination of qualification and security
   requirements are so strict that open recruitment is not feasible.

8. Priority Referral. The order of special placement consideration and referral in filling vacant positions
will normally be in accordance with AFMAN 36-203, Table 2.3.
   8.1. Employees who are entitled to pay retention, except those in formal development programs,
   developmental opportunity positions, or those who accepted change to lower grade with pay retention
   in response to solicitation for a hard-to-fill position, may be re-promoted noncompetitively up to the
   grade in the same pay system from which downgraded. Employee declination at intermediate grade
   results in termination of consideration at grade level declined and below.

9. Self-Nomination and Referral.
   9.1. Candidates seeking voluntarily reassignment or change to lower grade must self nominate under
   an appropriate vacancy announcement at the AFPC website.
   9.2. Air Force Career Field lists are issued in accordance with applicable instructions.
   9.3. On referral lists prepared by AFPC, the names of candidates will be listed in alphabetical order
   within like groups (e.g., alphabetically within reassignment candidates group and alphabetically
   within promotion candidates group).
   9.4. Applicants entitled to veteran preference for appointment will be so identified on the referral list.

10. Consideration. All candidates referred will be considered except those who specifically decline con-
sideration for the position. The selecting official must review a system-generated career brief, if available.
If the selecting official chooses to interview, he/she may interview one or more of the candidates on the
certificate. It is not required that all candidates be interviewed but for those who are, the same interview
questions should be used. Supervisor s may use either exchange of information or formal interview. When
formal interviews are conducted, questions must be pre-approved by AF ISR Agency/A1 Employment
representative. Interviews may be conducted telephonically, when the candidate is not within the com-
muting area or is otherwise unavailable for interview. Supervisors are responsible for the integrity of
interviews and for retaining sufficient documentation to validate the interview.
   10.1. Selecting officials may consider available awards data on each certified promotion candidate
   during the selection process. Consideration will be based on relevancy of the awards to the position
   being filled, as determined by the selecting official.
   10.2. Panels may be used when management determines that a panel selection process will better
   serve the interests of the organization. Selecting officials must provide AF ISR Agency/A1 Employ-
   ment representative the names, position titles, and grades of panel members prior to convening the
   panel. Panels will normally consist of 3 or 5 members. The inclusion of an AF ISR Agency/A1
   employment representative as an advisor to the panel is normally optional.
   10.3. A supervisor may select any candidate referred regardless of recruitment source. Selection will
   be documented and returned to AFPC and AF ISR Agency/A1 Employment representative for further
   processing.
6                                                               AFISRAI36-1101 28 FEBRUARY 2008


    10.4. Newly established AF ISR Agency GG-15 positions or above, must be approved by the Com-
    mander, AF ISR Agency Commander or designee.

11. Notifying an Employee. In each case, the selection process must be reviewed and validated by
AFPC before a proposed selectee is notified. AFPC will notify the selected individual. Initial notification
is for a tentative selection pending satisfactory results of pre-employment requirements. The AF ISR
Agency/A1 employment representative will contact the selectee to complete pre-employment require-
ments.

12. Releasing Employees.
    12.1. Internal candidates for promotion, reassignment, or change-to-lower grade will normally be
    released within 20 calendar days after their supervisor is notified of the selection. An extension may
    be granted if both supervisors agree, but normally will not exceed 10 days.
    12.2. A promotion may be delayed to give an employee a within-grade increase, but the delay will not
    exceed the second pay period after the promotion is approved. Such actions cannot be made retroac-
    tively to increase the right of the employee to compensation unless there is a specific authority for the
    earlier date in law or regulation.

13. Temporary Promotion.
    13.1. Temporary promotions that do not exceed 120 days may be noncompetitive. Temporary promo-
    tions may be non-competitive if within the employee’s current grade band in 1 year increments up to
    5 years.
    13.2. Provisions in 5.2. and 5.3. may be used for temporary promotions of more than 120 days.
       13.2.1. These promotions may be made permanent without further competition.
    13.3. Temporary Rank-In-Person Promotions (RIPs) are authorized and processed according to AFI
    36-1101, Attachment 3.

14. Travel and Transportation Expenses.
    14.1. Permanent Change of Station (PCS) costs for Non-Centrally managed positions are funded by
    the organization.
    14.2. Payment of PCS costs will be in accordance with provisions of the Joint Travel Regulation
    (JTR).

15. Employee Complaints.
    15.1. Employees who are dissatisfied with the application of this merit promotion plan by manage-
    ment or AF ISR Agency/A1 may file a grievance in accordance with AFI 36-1203, Air Force Admin-
    istrative Grievance System.
AFISRAI36-1101 28 FEBRUARY 2008                                                             7


16. Forms Prescribed. AFISRA Form 101, Supervisor/Trainee Report of Training Progress Approved
Training Program.



                                         JOHN C. KOZIOL, Maj Gen, USAF
                                         Commander
