BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY PAMPHLET 34-1201
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE
SURVEILLANCE AND                                                                   18 MAY 2011
RECONNAISSANCE AGENCY
                                                                                         Services

                                                                 DISTINGUISHED VISITORS




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFISRA/DSP                                          Certified by: AFISRA/DS (Mr. Kenneth
                                                                              A. Williams, Jr.)
Supersedes:    AIAPAM90-105, 14 July                                                Pages: 11
               2006


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-12, Information
Management. This pamphlet provides guidance and procedures in advance planning and
coordination for project officers when hosting Distinguished Visitors (DV) at the Air Force
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA) and collocated units in the San
Antonio area. This pamphlet applies to all AFISRA Directors and members assigned to their
respective directorates. This publication does not apply to AFISRA-gained Air National Guard
or Air Force Reserve Command units. This pamphlet ensures all DVs receive proper customs
and courtesies and that their requirements are managed professionally. Send comments on AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through proper chain of command
channels, to AFISRA/DSP, 102 Hall Blvd, Ste 201, San Antonio TX 78243-7009. Maintain
records created as a result of the prescribed processes identified in this directory in accordance
with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found on the Air Force Portal link at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Protocol provides a checklist and agenda template for project officers. This pamphlet is revised
to incorporate guidance pertaining to specific AFISRA responsibilities associated with the
realignment and renaming of the Air Intelligence Agency (AIA), a primary support unit under
 2                                                         AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011


Air Combat Command, to the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency,
a Field Operating Agency under HQ Air Force/A2.
1. Responsibilities. AFISRA Protocol Office (DSP) assists the project officer throughout the
entire visit. Participants who prepare and execute a distinguished guest’s visit include:
     1.1. AFISRA Directors will:
        1.1.1. Submit a DV report that forecasts DV visits for the next 2 weeks each Thursday.
        Forward the report to DSP; negative replies are required. Include general officers,
        civilian equivalents, and civic leaders visiting any AFISRA area, to include the Agency’s
        Command Section.
        1.1.2. Designate, in writing, a Project officer from the prospective directorate to
        coordinate the DV visit. The Project Officer will forward this information to the
        AFISRA Director of Staff (DS) for review to provide updates and overall guidance to
        individual project officers and focal points for action. (Complete a Distinguished Visitor/
        Critique to assist DSP in monitoring the success and shortfalls of the DV program.)
        1.1.3. Notify the Executive Assistant for the Commander, AFISRA upon knowledge of a
        DV visit that involves or could involve Command Section principals. The Commander’s
        Executive Assistant will coordinate a date and time of the proposed visit. Visitors not
        cleared by the Command Section may be refused entry.
     1.2. The Host Directorate/Office will:
        1.2.1. Ensure the proper planning for and execution of any visit within their area of
        responsibility.
        1.2.2. Meet, greet, and travel with DV-5s and DV-6s to all social events and provide
        personnel to take over escorting in absence of the project officer.
        1.2.3. Meet with the project officer to plan the agenda. Use the following questions to
        develop an agenda. NOTE: The following questions are for internal use only—and not
        to be asked to the DV .
            1.2.3.1. What is the purpose of the DV’s visit? How was the visit established (self-
            initiated, invited, regularly scheduled)? Are the visitors here to assist the Agency,
            requesting Agency intervention on an issue or education about Agency programs?
            What can they do for us or what do we want them to do for us? What story do we
            want to tell them (what points do we want them to walk away with)?
            1.2.3.2. What do they already know about the subject? Have they visited before
            (when and is there an itinerary)? Is this the whole trip or will they visit or have they
            visited other places in San Antonio or other intelligence facilities and organizations,
            either before or after the AFISRA visit?
            1.2.3.3. Recommend to the DV’s office that the visitor speaks or makes a
            presentation to AFISRA (do they have information (for our Airmen?)
            1.2.3.4. Identify the appropriate level of Command Section involvement.
        1.2.4. Attend Command Section principal’s agenda review with project officer, if
        applicable.
AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011                                                                 3


     1.2.5. Immediately notify Command Section of any potential DV visits.
     1.2.6. When Colonels and GG-15s are visiting AFISRA Directorates, perform the
     following actions:
        1.2.6.1. Scheduling a courtesy visit with a principal and/or a briefing will generate a
        Command Section tasker and agenda review. (Follow additional DV standards and
        policies).
        1.2.6.2. Reserve DV parking through DSP.
        1.2.6.3. Identify special security clearances if required.
        1.2.6.4. Ensure DV clearance has been forwarded to the AFISRA Security Office
        (AFISRA/SO). After receipt of clearance notification, request approval for a DV
        badge from SO.
  1.3. Protocol (AFISRA/DSP) will:
     1.3.1. Monitor, implement, and provide quality control over all aspects of the        DV
     program.
     1.3.2. Assist the project officer with DV administrative procedures (DV checklist
     procedures)
     1.3.3. Advise staff offices regarding protocol matters.
     1.3.4. Submit billeting information (DV suite, Visiting Officer’s Quarters (VOQ) &
     Visiting Airmen’s Quarters (VAQ), off-base billeting) and transportation requests for
     visiting DV’s meeting with Command Section Principles.
     1.3.5. Plan breakfast, lunch, and/or dinner when the Command Section is involved.
     Note: Gateway and Kelly Field Clubs do not serve breakfast and both clubs are closed
     on Mondays.
     1.3.6. Control and assign reserved parking located through the “General’s Gate” in the
     front of Building 2007.
     1.3.7. Arrange for an individual from the Command Section to meet and greet all
     Command Section-hosted DVs and special interest guests flying into Kelly Field and
     Randolph AFB. If an individual from the Command Section is not available, the DS will
     select a Director as an alternate.
     1.3.8. Coordinate military airlifts with base operations and ensures the DV information is
     posted on the electronic marquee or display at the flightline.
     1.3.9. Advise the Honor Guard of ceremonial requirements; coordinate and oversee their
     implementation.
     1.3.10. Prepare a welcome package for all visitors. The DV-6 and above welcome
     packages will include a welcome letter from the Commander, AFISRA.
     1.3.11. Prepare and distributes the weekly DV Report and forwards to the Command
     Section and others as assigned.
     1.3.12. Prepare a seating chart and name plates for briefings; prepare agendas, and set up
     the conference room with writing pads, pens, and refreshments when Command Section
4                                                          AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011


       principals are involved. DSP will provide guidance to the project officer. Make copies
       of charts and name plates for social events (breakfast and lunches) and ensure through the
       appropriate organization that proper protocol and procedures are in place.
       1.3.13. Maintain mementos and listings of previous AFISRA memento presentations, for
       qualified DV’s. Ensure photographer is available for presentations.
       1.3.14. Arrange pre-payments of bills when hosting a foreign dignitary, reimbursed from
       appropriated funds after arrangements are made with AFISRA/FM.
       1.3.15. Ensure project officers provide a proposed itinerary package to DSP NLT 24
       hours prior to the Command Section agenda review. If an agenda review is not
       necessary, ensure a package is received by the suspense date on the tasker.
       1.3.16. Distribute proposed and final DV packages to AFISRA Command Section.
    1.4. The Designated Project Officer. The project officer will:
       1.4.1. Notify DSP of selection. Review the DV checklist with DSP project officer and
       follow the checklist (Provided by Protocol).
       1.4.2. Coordinate with AFISRA Executive Assistant for the schedules of Command
       Section principals.
       1.4.3. Contact the visitor’s office to request the DV’s specific areas of interest and the
       details of the visit; to include; inclusive dates, arrival and departure times, mode of
       transportation (if military air, check the call sign and location aircraft is departing from),
       number in party, billeting and ground transportation requirements, dietary restrictions and
       requirements, etc.
           1.4.3.1. Ensure Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) access certification is
           forwarded (commensurate with visit level) and AFISRA/SO receives a copy of the
           certification.
           1.4.3.2. Forward the DV’s rank, full name, social security number, duty title,
           organization, credit card number and expiration date, office symbol and the purpose
           of their visit to DSP for billeting purposes. If project officer does not know the
           names and exact numbers of visitors during the advanced planning stages, provide an
           estimate of the number of rooms required for the visit.
           1.4.3.3. Obtain           general          officer        biographies         use
           www.af.mil/information/bios/index.asp from the Air Force web page. For other DV
           biographies, contact the DV’s office. For AFISRA’s Leadership biographies, us
           www.afisr.af.mil/library/biographies/index.asp Contact AFISRA Public Affairs with
           problems downloading agency leadership biographies.
       1.4.4. Coordinate with the Commander, Directors, and unit Commanders on the game
       plan and receive guidance on scheduled briefings. While some initial guidance may be
       provided by the Command Section, the senior officer in each organization must ensure
       the agenda is accurate and relevant to the visitor.
       1.4.5. Meet with host/OPR and ensure DV checklist is complete for agenda review.
AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011                                                                  5


     1.4.6. To arrange appropriate briefings please contact the Commander’s Action Group at
     977-2377 for a current list of conference rooms. When making a reservation please
     include full name of briefers, date, time, and location of briefings, schedule courtesy
     visits, and reserve one of the following conference rooms:
     1.4.7. Contact AFISRA/SO, Information Security Division no later than 3 working days
     prior to the visit when hosting any DV to ensure clearances have been received and
     processed. For foreign visits, use extension 977-2011; for non-foreign visits, use
     extension 977-4531. AFISRA/SO is the focal point within AFISRA for processing all
     clearance information, and provides guidance on visit requests and assistance in obtaining
     proper authorization to disclose information to allies with a legitimate need-to-know.
     The security clearances will be forwarded to the AFISRA/SO.
        1.4.7.1. Collateral:   Unclassified fax, DSN 969-5045 (must be sent by security
        manager).
        1.4.7.2. SCI: Servicing SSO message address, SSO AF ISR Agency//SOP//. CSSO
        (contractors) unclassified fax, Commercial (210) 977-5045 (CSSO signature block
        must be on form).
     1.4.8. Confirm Command Section principals’ participation by coordinating the time,
     place, and other appropriate information with each participating Command Section
     principal’s Executive Assistant. This includes meals, social events, briefings, work
     sessions, etc. Note: This is normally specified on the DV tasker issued by AFISRA/CC
     Executive Assistant.
     1.4.9. Schedule AFISRA Mission Briefing and additional audio visual support through
     AFISRA/CCX (977-2377).
     1.4.10. Coordinate with DSP and arrange for an officer of appropriate rank to meet,
     greet, and escort the ranking guests. The Director or 0-6 equivalent of the sponsoring
     office meets DV-5 to DV-6. A Command Section principal, if available, should meet
     DV-1 to DV-4.
     1.4.11. Contact DSP to determine appropriate uniform for all visiting participants. Wear
     the uniform of the day for daily activities (unless DV is hosting a ceremony, then service
     dress or equivalent), and casual attire (open-collar shirt) for evening functions. Inform
     the visitor’s office of uniform requirements and annotate uniform requirements in the
     visitor’s agenda.
     1.4.12. Confer with DSP on the presentation of mementos (mainly for foreign DVs or
     DVs in positions such as Directors and special speakers of the National Security Agency,
     Central Intelligence Agency, and the Defense Intelligence Agency).
     1.4.13. Limit staff attendance at briefings or work sessions to Command Section
     representatives, the host, and those specifically invited by the Commander and the host to
     answer questions on visit-related issues (if DV is a civilian, always include the Executive
     Director (AFISRA/CA) as a participant in the courtesy visit and briefings. List attendees
     by names and office symbols on the agenda; use rank, first name, and last name in rank
     order.
     1.4.14. Follow-up with all personnel invited to attend any event (meals, briefing).
 6                                                          AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011


        1.4.15. Contact DSP to coordinate the use of staff cars, DV vans or buses (vehicle
        operations, ext. 671-2860, 671-3317, 671-3318, or 671-3319).
        1.4.16. Request reserved parking and coordinate with DSP in front of building 2007.
        1.4.17. Make arrangements for all refreshments, breakfasts, luncheons, dinners, parties
        (as appropriate) to include name tags and seating plans, not involving Command Section
        principals. DSP provides advice as necessary. For above events involving Command
        Section principals, notify DSP of requirements.
        1.4.18. Obtain DV badges from the Visitor Control office, building 2000 after receiving
        an authorization letter from SO. General officers in uniform do not require DV badges;
        however, their clearances must be sent to AFISRA/SO.
        1.4.19. Complete the required DV welcome package, to include itinerary, agenda, and
        biographies.
        1.4.20. Contact AFISRA/CCX (977-2377) to ensure all briefings are loaded in the
        computer system connected to the conference room or auditorium being used.
        1.4.21. Attend briefings to ensure the flow of the visit goes well. All briefers,
        briefing/lunch attendees must be in place 15 minutes prior to the briefing /tour. Notify
        Command Section, Protocol, and Transportation when briefings start/end, ahead of
        schedule/running late or if changes to the agenda arise after the visit begins.
        1.4.22. Complete the AFISRA DV Program Critique after DV departs, provided by
        Protocol.
2. DV Package Policy and Procedures. Follow Sample Distinguished Visitor (DV) Itinerary
and Agenda, provided by Protocol. Comply with the following policies for ease in reviewing
and standardizing all DV packages.
     2.1. All DV packages are labeled with a status identification. Use one of three footers:
     DRAFT (In-Office use), PROPOSED (Agenda Review Stage), or FINAL (After Agenda
     Review Stage). The footer should be in the lower left corner of all pages. The footer
     corresponds to stages of development and is designed to prevent confusion for all parties
     involved in preparing and supporting a distinguished visit. Also ensure DATE/TIME footer
     is updated with each new agenda.
        2.1.1. The project officer uses the “DRAFT” to clarify developments and refine the
        itinerary and agenda. The draft label is used to:
            2.1.1.1. Seek Directorate guidance.
            2.1.1.2. Develop/ schedule.
            2.1.1.3. Coordinate briefing, presentations, and demonstrations.
            2.1.1.4. Arrange for billeting and transportation.
            2.1.1.5. Manage the DV’s itinerary.
        2.1.2. Label agenda “PROPOSED” when copy is due to DSP. The project officer
        provides a proposed itinerary and agenda to AFISRA/DSP for coordination and review.
        DSP reviews/directs needed changes and additions to the package. DSP forwards the
AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011                                                                      7


      itinerary/agenda via email for Command coordination and review. DSP is the single
      entry point to the Command Section. DSP review of the DV package normally “freezes”
      the DV’s itinerary in preparation for the CC’s and DS review. Minor adjustments may
      occur; however, the majority of the coordination and arrangements should have been
      completed prior to this point. Proposed DV packages include itinerary, agenda, and
      biography information. This package is formally reviewed during an agenda review with
      the DS or CC.
      2.1.3. After the CC’s and DS’s review, label itinerary and agenda “FINAL” to indicate
      that it is ready for final distribution. Final itineraries and agendas may be e-mailed to
      DSP, all briefers, and all attendees. If an itinerary or agenda needs to be changed after
      the final label is used, make sure you change the date and time printed in the lower left
      corner of the first page. This is a signal that there are two copies of the itinerary, and the
      most current is determined by the date and time shown on the agenda. Note 1: All
      copies of itineraries will have a “date and time” in the lower left corner of the page. Note
      2: Project officers do not distribute final agendas (electronically or by paper) prior to
      DSP and Command Section final approval.
   2.2. Contents.
      2.2.1. Proposed Itinerary for DV requiring special treatment. All DV biographies
      accompany the proposed itinerary provided to DSP. If biography is not available, include
      a statement with the proposed itinerary that the biography is not available, or when the
      biography will be available. The project officer makes all efforts to secure the biography
      prior to the Commander’s review. Note: Always include in the package a current
      biography on the visitor; United States Air Force General Officer biographies can be
      obtained from the Air Force Link site: www.af.mil/library/biographies.
      2.2.2. Agenda. Sequence of events for the DV guest.
      2.2.3. Attendance. The list of attendees is key to the agenda. List the attendees in rank
      order with the highest ranking first. Do not list briefers or project officers.
      2.2.4. Background and Point Papers. If the OPR intends to provide the visitor with a
      background or point paper, attach these documents to the proposed copy.
      2.2.5. DV Critique (Provided by Protocol). The DV Critique includes questions
      concerning issues encountered during the DV visit and recommendations for
      improvements to the DV program. The host and action officer complete the critique, not
      the DV. The project officer does not ask the DV these questions.
3. Other Information.
   3.1. Billeting Pre-registration. Pre-register the DV at the billeting office and provide the
   room key to the visitor upon arrival. Ensure the room keys work and are valid beyond check
   out time. The VOQ check-out time is 1100. Coordinate with DSP if early check-in or late
   checkout times are required. Check the room (air conditioning, heating, refrigerator stocked,
   etc…). Place the DV welcome package and fruit basket (if DV is O-7 or higher or civilian
   equivalent) on the table. If the DV is staying off base, reconfirm reservation with the hotel
   the day of the visit and hand the DV welcome package to the DV upon arrival.
 8                                                         AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011


     3.2. Conference Room and Other Arrangements. Ensure that arrangements are made for
     setting up the conference room. If a Command Section principal is attending, DSP will set
     up the conference room. When the conference room is vacated, ensure that the room is
     clean, and dishes are returned to DSP. Note: Obtain place cards, pads of paper, coasters,
     coffee cups, carafes, napkins, spoons, and other dishes from DSP.
     3.3. The Briefing and Equipment Involved. Ensure that all briefing slides and any other
     briefing materials are in place and working; make sure a member of the staff office hosting
     the visit is available to flip slides. Ensure all equipment is turned off before departing the
     briefing room. AFISRA/CCX provides audiovisual support if a Command Section principal
     is involved.
     3.4. Additional Information. Plan to remain with the DV during the entire time at the
     Agency and coordinate any changes to the schedule with DSP.
4. Conference and Special Events.
     4.1. Invitations. Before extending invitations for a conference, OPRs coordinate with
     AFISRA/CCX (for availability of the Bernard A. Larger Auditorium (BALA),
     AFISRA/DSP/CC Executive Assistant to obtain concurrence and ensure conference space,
     billeting, and transportation are available and do not conflict with other planned activities.
     4.2. Parking. Arrange DV conference parking in the lot of building 2000 with Facility
     Management (A7CM), extension 977-3975. Note: Parking is only blocked for DVs or
     Directorate-level (Worldwide DO/LG/SC/FM) conferences.
     4.3. Conference Planning is more complex than DV visit. Contact DSP conference
     planning representative immediately.
     4.4. All Programs and Events. DSP reviews and provides guidance for all programs and
     events, including seating arrangements for command-wide banquets and ceremonies(Annual
     Awards and Maj Gen Larson Awards Banquet).




                                              BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Commander
AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011                                                             9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-12, Air Force Protocol, 14 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
BALA—Bernard A. Larger Auditorium
CC—Commander
DS—Director of Staff
DSP—AFISRA Protocol Office
DV—Distinguished Visitor
NLT—Not Later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SSO—Special Security Office
TDY—Temporary Duty
VAQ—Visiting Airman’s Quarters
VOQ—Visiting Officer’s Quarters

Terms
Agenda—Program of briefings, office calls, and tours.
Commanders— Commander, AFISRA; 67th Network Warfare Wing Commander (67
NWW/CC); Commander, 688 Information Operations Wing (IOW/CC), Deputy Commander,
Joint Information Operations Warfare Center (JIOWC/J01), and HQ 24 Air Force
(24 AF CC) AFISRA Directors—The AFISRA Directors include: the Director of Manpower
and Personnel (AFISRA/A1), Director Analysis and Applications (AFISRA/A2), Director of
Intelligence Operations (AFISRA/A3), Director of Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
(AFISRA/A4/7), Director of Plans, Requirements and Programs (AFISRA/A5/8), Director of
Communications (AFISRA/A6), Financial Management & Comptroller (AFISRA/FM), Chief
 10                                                       AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011


Office of the Chaplain (AFISRA/HC), Chief Historian (AFISRA/HO), the Inspector General
(AFISRA/IG), the Staff Judge Advocate (AFISRA/JA), the Chief Office of Public Affairs
(AFISRA/PA), Chief Office of Safety (AFISRA/SE), Surgeon General (AFISRA/SG), and the
Chief Security Office (AFISRA/SO).
Distinguished Visitors (DV)—Any visitor who is a: 1) General Officer or civilian equivalent
(see attachment 2); 2) Colonel or GS-15 and above; 3) Command Chief ; 4) Personnel
determined by the command section to be of special interest or importance; that is, visitors,
regardless of grade, having a scheduled courtesy visit, briefing, work session, or meal with a
command section principal; or 5) DV visiting the agency in conjunction with a conference and
the project officer anticipates command section involvement; the conference project officers treat
DV according to the guidance provided in this pamphlet.
Host—The hosts include: AFISRA Directors, Wing, Group, and Center Commanders.
Itinerary—The itinerary includes the full schedule of the trip from arrival to departure times,
flight information, POCs, lodging information, and purpose of the temporary duty (TDY).
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The OPR is the Directorate appointed by the
Executive Assistant and most closely associated with the purpose of the visit.
Project Officer—The project officer is the person the OPR designates as the point of contact
(POC) for a DV visit.
AFISRAPAM34-1201 18 MAY 2011                                                                 11


                                       Attachment 2
           DISTINGUISHED VISITOR CODE AND RELATIVE RANKINGS


Table A2.1. Distinguished Visitor Code and Relative Rankings.

DV-1 President of the US; Kings; Rulers; Presidents of Foreign Countries; Prime Ministers.

DV-2 Vice President of the US; Senators; Congressmen.

DV-3 Generals; Admirals; Political Appointees.

DV-4   Lt Generals and Vice Admirals; Mayors; Public Law GS-18s and above;
       DISES/DISL/SES 3-6.

DV-5 Maj Generals and Rear Admirals; GS-17;
     DISES/DISL/SES-2.

DV-6 Brig Generals and Rear Admirals (lower half) GS-16;
     DISES/DISL/SES-1, and Command Chiefs.
