BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR FORCE ISR AGENCY INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE                                                          33-302
SURVILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE
AGENCY                                                                           13 APRIL 2009
                                                                  Certified Current, 15 July 2011
                                                                                Communications

                                                         HQ AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE,
                                                  SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE
                                                                    COMMAND POLICY


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

                                                                  Certified by: AF ISR Agency/DS
OPR: AFISRA/DDS
                                                                           (Mr. Kenneth Williams)
Supersedes:    AIAI90-17, 20 July 2006                                                  Pages: 16



This instruction provides Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AF
ISR Agency) procedures for tasking, preparing, coordinating, and staffing correspondence for the
AF ISR Agency Commander and senior staff. It includes procedures for preparation of the
memorandum, personalized letter, and Electronic Staff Summary Sheet (E-SSS). It provides
guidance on correspondence flow and preparation correspondence for routing. To the greatest
extent possible, all information workflow (the process of tasking, coordinating, and staffing
correspondence) within the AF ISR Agency should be electronic. This instruction applies to all
AF ISR Agency and AF ISR Agency administratively supported units worldwide and AF ISR
Agency-gained Air Force Reserve units. Use this instruction along with AFMAN 33-326,
Preparing Official Communications; AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill; and the US Air Force
Effective Writing Course Handbook, to prepare correspondence. In those cases where there is
conflicting guidance, follow this instruction. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed
processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) as found on the AF Portal at the AF Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) link. Contact supporting records managers as required. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The revisions to this instruction are administrative in nature.
2                                                             AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009



                                           Chapter 1

                                   GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. Director of Staff (AF ISR Agency/DS). Has overall responsibility for the workflow
process, correspondence management, and preparation.      Executive Services (AF ISR
Agency/DSE Workflow) under the direction of AF ISR Agency/DS will:
    1.1.1. Provide guidance and assistance on correspondence preparation for the AF ISR
    Agency. Receive, control and distribute AF ISR Agency/CC correspondence, as appropriate.
    1.1.2. Serve as correspondence control and task liaison between Headquarters Air Force
    (HAF), Major Command (MAJCOM), and Numbered Air Force (NAF), Wing/Center
    Commanders and HQ 2-Ltr directorates/special staff offices.
    1.1.3. Assign tasks on behalf of the AF ISR Agency/CC. Before task assignment, AF ISR
    Agency/DSE Workflow will conduct research to preclude task duplication and to locate and
    reference past or related work. Clear task instructions and processing guidance will be
    provided. As a general rule, task assignment will occur within 24 hours of receipt of the task
    item. However, time-critical task items will be assigned upon receipt.
       1.1.3.1. Task instructions will include at a minimum: specific actions required to
       complete the task, a summary of the task, Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and
       Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) appointments, links to associated documents
       and a minimum coordination and staffing recommendation.
    1.1.4. Monitor the status of task actions. Provide guidance on due date extensions, assist
    with retrieving packages held up in coordinating offices, and assist OPRs in reassignment of
    erroneously assigned actions.
    1.1.5. Process staff packages destined for the AF ISR Agency/CC and senior staff. Review
    for clarity and administrative quality to ensure correspondence meets requirements of this
    instruction.
    1.1.6. Establish and implement workflow process policy and procedures.
1.2. HQ 2-Ltrs and Wing/Center Commanders will:
    1.2.1. Assign actions through controlled, established procedures within their area of
    responsibility, assist in determining the proper reply to complete a task (e.g., E-SSS,
    memorandum, flag or personalized letter) and provide additional task instructions as
    appropriate.
    1.2.2. Ensure correspondence is essential, timely, well organized and properly coordinated.
    Correspondence should be processed electronically unless a hardcopy version is more
    appropriate (e.g., cover letter used to transmit bulky attachments).
    1.2.3. Comply with security classification instructions and safeguarding according to DoD
    5200.1-R, Information Security Program, Directive of Central Intelligence Directive 6/6
    (DCID 6/6), Security Controls on the Dissemination of Intelligence Information, and AFI 31-
    401, Information Security Program Management.
AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009                                                                     3


   1.2.4. Meet established due dates. Maintain or have access to the status of actions to ensure
   timely submission of replies. If a task should need additional time, the Action Officer (AO)
   has the authority to contact the task originator directly for the requested extension.
   1.2.5. Forward OPR transfer requests to AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow, providing sound
   rationale for task transfer.
   1.2.6. Ensure AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow receives task status updates during the life
   cycle of each task.
   1.2.7. Ensure directorate organizational workflow boxes are established and managed for
   primary receipt of incoming tasks and packages. The organizational workflow boxes should
   be monitored consistently throughout the day with special attention during the first duty hour,
   and before departure by personnel responsible for managing tasks. Each directorate should
   appoint a primary and alternate task manager. Each directorate should ensure a trained task
   manager is available at all times to ensure the prompt, expeditious processing of taskers.
   1.2.8. Each directorate will save and archive a copy of all documents signed by the AF ISR
   Agency/CC and Senior Staff for which it is responsible, IAW AFI 33-364.
1.3. Action Officers (AO) will:
   1.3.1. Be responsible for developing Air Force ISR Agency positions and responses.
   Actions may vary widely in importance, but all must reflect the best possible advice or
   guidance. The AO's responsibility for the action continues until action has been completed.
   The action is not complete until response has been dispatched and the requested response is
   accepted after leaving the AF ISR Agency.
   1.3.2. Ensure proper coordination and completion of the action. Coordinate actions as fully
   as possible, without permitting the coordination process to evade the issues, provide watered-
   down advice or miss the established due date. Through the coordination process, critical
   issues can be identified and presented to the AO‟s leadership for decision. The AO is
   responsible for ensuring such issues are identified and not lost through vague wording or a
   compromise on the objective of the action. Develop the response in a timely manner. The
   AO should balance the objective of producing "the perfect action" against the need to
   complete work in a timely manner. However, high quality staff work should be the
   fundamental goal.
   1.3.3. Ensure classified information is appropriately marked in accordance with DoD
   5200.1-R, Information Security Program, Directive of Central Intelligence Directive 6/6
   (DCID 6/6), Security Controls on the Dissemination of Intelligence Information, and AFI 31-
   401, Information Security Program Management.
   1.3.4. Ensure the Wing/Center Commanders or HQ Directorates update the status during the
   life cycle of each task.
4                                                              AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009


                                            Chapter 2

                     INFORMATION WORKFLOW MANAGEMENT

2.1. Workflow Process.
    2.1.1. The workflow process can begin at any level.
    2.1.2. Many actions originate external to AF ISR Agency, such as HAF, MAJCOMs, and
    NAFs. Correspondence directed to, or originated by, the AF ISR Agency/CC is
    electronically tasked by AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow to the appropriate OPR. The
    workflow process usually involves three main parts; tasking, response
    development/coordination, and staffing for final action.
    2.1.3. The current tool used by the AF ISR Agency for tasking, coordinating and staffing is
    Outlook Task Manager. This program will be used throughout the Agency to task and
    monitor staff packages.
    2.1.4. AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow is the primary task agent for the Top 4 (AF ISR
    Agency/CC, AF ISR Agency/CV, AF ISR Agency/CA and AF ISR Agency/DS). The
    following task actions are most common:
       2.1.4.1. AF ISR Agency Commander‟s Action. Actions requiring preparation of
       correspondence for AF ISR Agency/CC signature are tasked to appropriate Wing/Center
       or HQ 2-Ltrs and require AF ISR Agency/CC approval before delivery to HAF,
       MAJCOM, or NAF. Each staff package is processed through AF ISR Agency/DSE
       Workflow after coordination through designated AOs.
       2.1.4.2. AF ISR Agency/CC or Top 4 Information. Correspondence for AF ISR
       Agency/CC or Top 4 information is tasked/coordinated by AF ISR Agency/DSE
       Workflow.
       2.1.4.3. Top 4 Actions. These actions require preparation of correspondence for Top 4
       signature, approval or information, and can be self-generated or in response to a tasking.
       Unless otherwise directed, responses for these actions must be forwarded to the AF ISR
       Agency/DSE Workflow for further processing.
       2.1.4.4. Direct Reply. A task where the OPR will respond directly to the originator
       without the approval or signature of AF ISR Agency/CC, or Top 4. The AF ISR
       agency/DSE Workflow determines the level of response within the AF ISR Agency.
       When the action has been tasked by AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow, an electronic copy
       of the response that satisfied the tasker will be inserted into the tasker, text updated, and
       closed in Microsoft Task Manager. The OPR is responsible for ensuring proper retention
       for all direct reply responses. Additionally, should the OPR determine a higher level of
       response is more appropriate, notify AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow, annotate the tasker
       to reflect the current status, and process accordingly.
    2.1.5. Task Acceptance and Rejection (Transfer). OPRs/AOs determine if tasks should be
    accepted on the behalf of their directorate. The OPR of the task is responsible for adding or
    clarifying task instructions and guidance before assignment. However, OPRs/AOs should
    NOT reject/decline any tasking from the AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow unless the
AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009                                                                   5


   OPRs/AOs notify the tasking agent accordingly. All rejections must be requested and
   justified through the AF ISR Agency/DSE workflow. Requests should be submitted
   electronically using the Outlook Task Manager Accept/Reject feature, sending a Task Status
   Report from Outlook Task Manager, or e-mail.
   2.1.6. Timeliness of Rejections and Transfer Requests. Rejections and transfer requests for
   tasks with due dates of two weeks or less should occur within one duty day; with due dates of
   two weeks or more within two duty days. Tasks with a high priority require transfer request
   upon receipt. If known, include a recommended OPR in the justification. Requests not
   processed in a timely manner require justification and the name/phone number of the AO
   accepting the task transfer.
   2.1.7. Due Date Extension Requests. Proactive requests to adjust AF ISR Agency/DSE
   Workflow established due dates should be elevated by the AO to the OPR for assessment and
   further processing. Requests received after the due date has expired will be forwarded to the
   AF ISR Agency/DS for review. AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow will indicate in the task
   instructions if an external-agency is the final approval authority and if extension requests
   should be routed to that external POC. In all cases, actions will be recorded by the AO
   and/or task manager with appropriate annotations in the task.
   2.1.8. Task Maintenance. Daily task maintenance is critical to the workflow tasking process.
   Task managers and AOs are responsible for recording all actions relating to a task. Typical
   task maintenance actions include:
      2.1.8.1. Task Status Reporting. Pertinent information such as location of staff packages,
      task milestones, and links to task-related documents should be recorded. The “Status
      Report” feature is the preferred means of communicating and sharing status information.
      Task milestones can be recorded in the task notes and/or by using the “% Complete”
      feature: 0% = not started; 25% = AO working; 50% = AO coordinating response; 75% =
      complete response being staffed; 100% = final action complete and, if applicable,
      documents dispatched.
   2.1.9. Hot Packages. A hot package requires the senior leader to drop whatever they are
   doing to review the package because the issue will affect the immediate safety and security
   of personnel. It may also be something needed for ongoing contingencies or war efforts, or
   higher headquarters has asked for an immediate response on a task. In contrast, a package
   will not be considered “hot” of one fails to meet the tasker due date.
   2.1.10. All taskers will be due to AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow NLT 1400L of the
   suspense date. If items are turned in later than 1400L on the suspense date they are
   considered late.
2.2. Coordination Process.
   2.2.1. Coordination gives affected directorates an opportunity to contribute to and comment
   on actions. Early involvement of all concerned directorates is crucial to fully develop an
   issue. A properly coordinated action considers the full range of options on the issue and
   presents all relevant facts. The extent of coordination depends on the nature of the action.
      2.2.1.1. Preliminary Coordination. At this stage, AO-level input is sought to identify
      issues and strengthen the action.
6                                                              AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009


       2.2.1.2. Final Coordination. At this stage of coordination, concurrence or non-
       concurrence is requested from at least the two-digit (HQ 2-Ltr) unless delegated to a
       lower level.
       2.2.1.3. Coordination Responses. A response to the coordination is accomplished in
       three ways: (1) concur, (2) concur with comments or (3) non-concur. Non-concurrences
       must be accompanied by specific recommended changes and supporting rationale, if
       appropriate. Suggested changes may also be provided with a non-concurrence; however,
       they must be clearly distinguished from issues on which a non-concurrence is based.
           2.2.1.3.1. Critical Comments. Comments that reflect changes that must be made to
           the staff package before moving forward. Critical comments not incorporated should
           be identified before the staff package moves forward. Comments matrix should be
           attached.
           2.2.1.3.2. Non-Critical Comments. Proposed changes to the staff package that
           should be considered before staff package is submitted for final action. Non-Critical
           Comments may also be referred to in staff work as substantive comments.
           2.2.1.3.3. Administrative Comments. Comments that propose changes to the format
           of the staff package and not the content.
       2.2.1.4. Re-accomplishment of Coordination. If substantive changes are made to the
       staff package, coordination must be re-accomplished. Normally, any change necessary to
       accommodate the nonconcurring view of one directorate will be substantive and require
       coordination with all concerned.
       2.2.1.5. Networking. Coordination is also accomplished through the system of
       networking. AOs generally inherit points of contact (POCs) from their predecessor. A
       personally-built network provides great results.
    2.2.2. Coordination normally occurs at the Wing/Center Commander or HQ 2-Ltr level.
    2.2.3. To obtain 3-Ltr and below coordination on packages tasked by AF ISR Agency/DSE
    Workflow:
       2.2.3.1. The AO is responsible for obtaining proper coordination prior to sending to the
       2-Ltr. Any packages coming in for 2-Ltr coordination should have been properly staffed
       and coordinated at the lower levels.
    2.2.4. A staff package held up in the coordination process robs the action office of suspense
    time and deducts from the time senior leadership has to review a package and make critical
    decisions. To preclude the staff package from being held up during the coordination process,
    each level (i.e. 4-Ltr, 3-Ltr, etc.) will have 2 duty days to complete coordination. A non-
    response will signify a concurrence. When a problem arises, OPRs and AOs should work
    with the appropriate executive officers to solve the delay. If an appropriate resolution cannot
    be made, OPRs and AOs may forward staff packages on to the next coordinating office and
    the AO will place “Coordination Not Received” in the appropriate coordination block. AF
    ISR Agency/DSE Workflow may also be contacted anytime during the coordination process
    to facilitate moving the staff package.
2.3. Staffing Process.
AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009                                                                7


   2.3.1. Packages en route to the Air Staff, NAF, MAJCOM and AF ISR Agency Top 4 must
   be electronically staffed through AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow.
   2.3.2. All extraneous documents should be removed from the package prior to staffing to AF
   ISR Agency/DSE Workflow.
   2.3.3. Top 4 staffing will take 5 duty days.
   2.3.4. AF ISR Agency/DSE will return the original package to the 2-Ltr office after AF ISR
   Agency/CC signature or approval for dissemination, future tracking and archival IAW AFI
   33-364.
2.4. Written Communications. Specific instructions for preparing and using written
communications within AF ISR Agency are expected in accordance with AFMAN 33-326 and
AFH 33-337.
2.5. Authentication and Signature. Electronic signature is authentication.    The following
types of communications require an actual signature.
   2.5.1. Legal matters having policy impacts.
   2.5.2. Change in policy or position having AF ISR Agency-wide impacts.
      2.5.2.1. Replies to officials of higher or comparable levels outside of HQ/AF ISR
      Agency.
      2.5.2.2. Budgetary/financial documents or issues.
      2.5.2.3. Manpower/billet issues.
   2.5.3. Replies to senior commanders/officials within the Air Force.
8                                                              AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009


                                            Chapter 3

                        PRESENTATION AND BRIEFING POLICY

3.1. Overview. The following guidance applies to the briefing policy for AF ISR Agency
leadership.
    3.1.1. All presentations to the CC and CV in the Commander‟s Conference Room (CCR)
    must also include invitations to the CA and the DS. This rule applies unless:
       3.1.1.1. The information is privileged information.
       3.1.1.2. The classification of the brief(s) requires an access not held by one of the above.
       3.1.1.3. The CC or CV specifically excludes their participation.
       3.1.1.4. The CA and DS may always opt out.
3.2. Project Officer Responsibilities.
    3.2.1. The Project Officer needs to contact AF ISR Agency Protocol (DSP) and the AF ISR
    Agency Commander‟s Action Group (CCX) in order to ensure proper protocol issues are
    met.
    3.2.2. If possible, the OPRs will be seated at the table among the AF ISR Agency leadership.
    3.2.3. All presentations must be forwarded via e-mail to CCX within 2 workdays of the
    scheduled presentation for their review. If the file is too large to e-mail OPRs will contact
    CCX to make arrangements to save to the global drive per the direction of CCX.
       3.2.3.1. Include with the briefing: briefing date and time, length, location, format and
       classification, name and office symbol of the briefer(s).
    3.2.4. The Project Officer for the presentation will make hard copies of all briefs for the CC,
    CV, CA, and DS if they are attending. Color is not required unless it is necessary for the
    briefing. If the briefing is being prepared for the CC to deliver, the hardcopies should
    include the notes pages. Otherwise, print one slide per page for the CC and two per page for
    the others.
3.3. Presentations in the Commander’s Conference Room (CCR) and the Bernard A.
Larger Auditorium (BALA).
    3.3.1. All presentations being given in the CCR and BALA, to any audience, must be
    coordinated in advance through CCX.
       3.3.1.1. CCX will schedule all events being held in BALA.
    3.3.2. Any Executive Assistant in the Command Section can schedule events being held in
    the CCR.
    3.3.3. All briefings, displays, music, and other materials will be coordinated with CCX prior
    to submission to AF ISR AGENCY/DSE for final review.
3.4. Video Teleconferencing Policy to AF ISR Agency/CC.
AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009                                                                     9


   3.4.1. All video teleconference presentations involving briefs to the CC, CV, and DS require
   the briefs be sent to the CCX at least 2 workdays in advance. This rule applies even if the
   briefs are being pushed from a distant end. This will allow AF ISR Agency leadership to
   have read-ahead(s) prior to the brief. This will also provide a back-up capability in the event
   there are technical problems with the VTC.
   3.4.2. The Project Officer should contact CCX in order to ensure the brief is received and
   coordinated beforehand. A 2-day period will allow CCX to respond to any questions or
   concerns before the actual presentation.
3.5. Adopted Form. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            BRADLEY A. HEITHOLD, Maj Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
10                                                              AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1-R - Information Security Program
Director of Central Intelligence Directive 6/6, Security Controls on the Dissemination of
Intelligence Information
AFI 31-401 - Information Security Program Management
AFMAN 33-326 - Preparing Official Communications
AFH 33-337 - The Tongue and Quill
AFMAN 37-139 - Records Disposition Schedule replaced by AF RDS located at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil

Terms
Action Officer (AO)-—The person responsible for consolidating, preparing, coordinating, and
monitoring the progress of Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
documents through completion.
Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency Command Section-—
Includes the Commander (CC), Vice-Commander (CV), Technical Director (CA), Director of
Staff (DS), Command Chief (CCC) and Executive Services (DSE).
AF ISR Agency/DSE (Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
Director of Executive Services)-—Responsible for managing and directing the correspondence
control and task tracking system for AF ISR Agency correspondence requiring action by the CC,
CV, CA, DS or CCC.
Coordination-—The process event of securing agreement in developing a policy or course of
action. It involves study, discussion, resolution of differences, and may be provided through
participation in boards, committees, councils, or through normal staff actions.
Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR)-—Any headquarters, agency or activity whose
assigned function is involved to a secondary degree in a matter that is the primary responsibility
of another agency.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)-—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Staffing-—The workflow event in which staff packages are forwarded to a decision-maker for
action. This event is generally linear. For example: from the AO to the two-letter OPR once all
coordination is obtained, or from the two-letter OPR to the Top 4 through AF ISR Agency/DSE
Workflow.
Tasking-—The manner in which tasks are assigned. Tasking is usually linear from the top
down.
AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009                                                                   11


Top 4-—For workflow process purposes, Top 4 refers to the AF ISR Agency Commander (CC),
Vice Commander (CV), Technical Director (CA), and the Director of Staff (DS).
Top-Line-—The list of two-letter (or equivalent) offices or the top delegated office for the two-
letter on the E-SSS required to coordinate on the staff package.
12                                                            AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009


                                         Attachment 2
                                 NAMING CONVENTIONS

A2.1. Naming conventions for Electronic Packages: The following table depicts mandatory
naming conventions for electronic packages and related e-mail traffic within AF ISR Agency.
A2.2. Naming conventions were established to help everyone manage email traffic, and it is
critical to use them when staffing your electronic package. In AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow as
well as the Top 4 offices, email with the word “Package” is directed to a subfolder so that
electronic packages can be easily differentiated from regular email traffic. Many offices across
the AF ISR Agency are doing similar things using the Microsoft Outlook rules wizard. Packages
not labeled correctly could linger unnecessarily in someone‟s organizational inbox.

Table A2.1. Naming Conventions for Electronic Packages.
ITEM               RULES                                               EXAMPLE
Tasks              Used when tasking an item. Task should              Tsk: 051018-01 Briefing
                   include the unique number the tasking               for COMACC
                   organization assigns (i.e. Tsk: YYMMDD-01)
                   and subject of the task requested.
Packages           If the package correlates to a task, the reply      Pkg: Briefing for
                   must be imbedded in the original task request to    COMACC
                   avoid duplication in task bars.
Correspondence     For general correspondence start the e-mail         Pkg: Electronic staffing
                   with “Pkg:” no unique number task identifier        policy (e-staffing).
                   will be assigned to general correspondence.
OPRs               Used when sending an Officer Performance            (FOUO) OPR: Capt Jane
                   Report. Name should include individual‟s            Doe: c/o 1 Jan 08
                   name and closeout date.
EPRs               Used when sending an Enlisted Performance           (FOUO) EPR: SSgt John
                   Report. Name should include individual‟s            Doe: c/o 1 Jan 08
                   name and closeout date.
DEC                Used when sending a Decoration Submission.          (FOUO) MSM MSgt Jim
                   Name should include the type of decorations         Doe; Present Date 10 Sep
                   being awarded, individual‟s name and                08
                   presentation date.
Cancellation       If a directorate feels that a task needs to be      Cancel Request: Tsk:
Requests           cancelled, then start the e-mail with “Cancel       051018-01, Title of
                   Request:” followed by the complete title from       Tasker
                   the task.
Transfer           If a directorate feels that a task needs to be      Transfer Request: Tsk:
Requests           transferred, then start the e-mail with “Transfer   051018-01, Title of
                   Request:” followed by the complete title from       Tasker
                   the task.
AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009                                                              13


                                      Attachment 3
       INFORMATION WORKFLOW MANAGEMENT AND TASK DUE DATES

Table A3.1. Correspondence Control and Task Tracking Guide.
TASK                     DESCRIPTION             *DUE       THE "FLOW"
                                                 DATE
1   Appropriate Action   OPR determines          N/A        DS Actions: Forwards task
                         response necessary,                instructions to AF ISR
                         type and timing.                   Agency/DSE Workflow to
                                                            task to appropriate
                                                            directorate.

                                                            AF ISR Agency/DSE
2   Direct Reply         OPR responds to         N/A
                                                            Workflow Actions:
                         originator without
                                                            Builds task in task manager
                         approval or signature
                                                            Assigns identifying number.
                                                            Assigns due date (if
                                                            applicable).

3   Three/Four Star      Requires response to 3 to 5        Attaches applicable source
    General              correspondence from workdays       documents.
    Correspondence       three/four star general            Distributes task to OPR. The
                         or equivalent.                     OPR will disseminate to the
                                                            OCRs.

                                                            Reports status of late tasks to
4   Notes from AF ISR    AF ISR Agency/CC        1 to 10
                                                            AF ISR Agency/DSE
    Agency/CC or         or Command Section      workdays
                                                            Workflow.
    Command Section      questions. Use ESSS
                         to transmit
                                                            Reviews submitted response.
                         information/response.
                                                            Returns original staff
14                                                          AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009


5    Electronic Staff    Required to transmit    3 to 5        package to OPR thru 2-letter
     Summary Sheet (E-   correspondence for      workdays      task manager workflow or
     SSS)                action/info to AF ISR                 calls OPR upon request or
                         Agency/DS and                         instruction.
                         above.
                                                               OPR Actions: If accepts task,
                                                               submits copies to AF ISR
                                                               Agency/DSE Workflow by
                                                               due date, generally NLT
                                                               1400 date due.

                                                               If accepts task but cannot
                                                               meet due date, OPR/AO has
                                                               the authority to call the task
                                                               originator to request an
                                                               extension. Annotate the
                                                               tasker to reflect the approved
                                                               suspense date.

                                                               If task is completed/canceled,
                                                               but still in AF ISR
                                                               Agency/DSE tracking
                                                               system, insert completed
                                                               products into tasker,
                                                               annotate, and close tasker.

                                                               Only DS or equivalent can
                                                               sign request to cancel action.

                                                                OCR Actions: Assists OPR
                                                                in completing case.
                 Note: (*) Due date indicated represents standard for task.
AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009   15
16                                                              AFISRAI33-302 13 APRIL 2009


                                          Attachment 4
                        ELECTRONIC WORKFLOW CHECKLISTS

A4.1. The following checklist is provided for AF ISR Agency members to use as guidance and
recommendation for completing tasks and packages.
     A4.1.1. E-SSS Specific Guidance:
All Packages going to AF ISR Agency/CC will have CV and DS on Top-line coordination.
All packages involving enlisted personnel will have AF ISR Agency/CCC on Top-line
coordination.
All electronic approval and coordination will be done using “//SIGNED//Surname, Rank, Date”.
     A4.1.2. Tasking Items Using Outlook Task manager:
Double Click in the area that reads „click here to add new task‟; untitled window will appear.
Begin by titling the task using the following naming conventions:
If original task not received from AF ISR Agency/DSE Workflow, then use the following
naming convention: Office Symbol.YYMMDD##. Package Title e.g. 051002-01.
Set due date block.
Fill in the „TO‟ block as you would an e-mail; ensure you send to Workflow Boxes.
Verify the subject line and ensure it is in proper convention.
Go to the instruction block and provide detailed instructions and be sure to include things like:
level of coordination and disposition instructions as well as POC and phone number.
Use „Attach‟ function from the toolbar to insert documents the AO needs.
Click „Send‟.
Verify that the task shows up on your Org Task list.
     A4.1.3. Accepting Tasked Items Using Outlook Task:
An e-mail will appear in your Workflow Box; once opened, you can accept or decline the task.
Choose accept.
Item will now show on your Org Task list, and a receipt message will return to the sender.
Contact DSE Workflow before declining a task to discuss OPR/AO situation/concerns. OPR/AO
will need to input a justification/reason why declining the task into the text message before
assigning back to DSE Workflow.
     A4.1.4. Task Manager Org In-box Management:
View items in Org In-box: First duty hour, throughout the day, and before departure (number of
looks predicated by level of traffic).
First look for any item marked task request, update, or complete.
Open all such e-mails:
Begin with updates, they will disappear once closed.
Next completed tasks, once read move to the completed task folder below the inbox.
Finally, task requests, accept or decline as necessary (if declining, need insert justification).
Review Task Extensions.
