BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR FORCE JOINT INSTRUCTION 48-131
51ST FIGHTER WING
                                                        51ST FIGHTER WING SUPPLEMENT


                                                                                    10 JUNE 2011



                                                                              Aerospace Medicine


                                                           VETERINARY HEALTH SERVICES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 51AMDS/SGPM                                                        Certified by: 51 MDG/CC
                                                                            (Col Gregory B. York)

Supersedes: 51FWI48-110, 13 December 2006                                                Pages: 15


AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006 is supplemented as follows: This
supplement provides guidance and establishes procedures for the registration, care, control, and
disposition of pets and other animals on Osan Air Base. It also establishes procedures for the
control and prevention of disease of animals which may be transmitted to humans. It is
applicable to all units assigned, attached, or tenant to Osan Air Base. To protect the health,
welfare, and individual rights of all base tenants, it is necessary to regulate the behavior and
activity of pets kept on base. It is intended to consolidate and codify pet animal ownership and
control policies on Osan Air Base. It is also intended to form the basis for an integrated
approach to stray and wild animal control. New requirements take effect immediately and will
apply to all Department of Defense (DoD) military, civilian, and contractor personnel assigned to
Osan Air Base. Host nation military and civilian personnel are encouraged to comply with the
prohibitions contained within and will be educated on the provisions of this instruction.
Enforcement of the requirement to permanently identify all cats and dogs residing or visiting on
Osan Air Base for greater than 10 days will take effect 90 days from the date this instruction is
approved. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
2                                                   AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011

Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised to reflect changes in the guidelines for Pet
Ownership, Animal Control and Zoonotic Disease Prevention. The 51 CES Pest Management
division will be responsible for capturing strays not the 51 SFS. The Veterinary Tech on call
will not go pick up strays once they are captured, they are to be brought to the Veterinary
treatment facility by the 51 CES Pest Management. Any newly acquired animal must have proof
of a veterinary appointment before being allowed on base. This includes animals hand carried
through the gate. An owner will not abandon a pet upon departure from this base or under any
other circumstances. Contact any local stray shelter for more information on relinquishing a pet.
51st Civil Engineer Squadron (51 CES) will respond to 51 CES Non-Emergency Fire Desk calls
(784-4710) and alert 51 CES Pest Management technician on call to stray animals. All dogs and
cats which are registered at the Osan Air Base VTF will be immunized against rabies at the age
of 12 wks and thereafter in accordance with the most current Compendium of Animal Rabies
Prevention and Control, as published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and
current guidelines set by the Army Veterinary Standardization Board (Attachment 2).
Registration. All dogs, cats, and other pets three months of age or older that have Permanent
Change of Station (PCS) here and have been under the previous care of a veterinarian on a
military base (except fish, small caged mammals and birds) and will be on base at any time must
be registered with the VTF, Building 766, within 10 duty days after arrival or acquisition. All
animals must be registered regardless of the fact that the owner resides on or off base.

                                      Chapter 7 (Added)

 PET OWNERSHIP, ANIMAL CONTROL AND ZOONOTIC DISEASE PREVENTION

7.1. (Added) Roles And Responsibilities:

7.1.1. (Added) 51st Fighter Wing Commander (51 FW/CC).

7.1.1.1. (Added) Will ensure animal control programs are in place to protect human safety and
to prevent the spread of zoonotic disease.

7.1.1.2. (Added) Will promote the concept of responsible animal ownership.

7.1.1.3. (Added) Will ensure humane care and treatment of animals on Osan Air Base.

7.1.2. (Added) 51st Mission Support Group Commander (51 MSG/CC).

7.1.2.1. (Added) Will ensure animal control policies and activities contained within this
instruction are adequately resourced and enforced.

7.1.2.2. (Added) Will serve as the final authority on pet animal removal orders.
AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011                                                                3



7.1.3. (Added) 51st Civil Engineer Squadron (51 CES).

7.1.3.1. (Added) Will ensure that base personnel and dependents residing in government owned
or controlled quarters are knowledgeable of all aspects of this instruction.

7.1.3.2. (Added) Will ensure the base Pest Management Plan includes a robust integrated pest
management approach for the control of stray and wild animals.

7.1.3.2.1. (Added) Will bring any trapped live animals to the Veterinary Treatment Facility
(VTF) for euthanasia and disposal and any dead animal that has been in known contact with
humans will be brought to the vet clinic for examination and disposal.

7.1.3.3. (Added) Will attempt to apprehend stray or wild animals suspected of biting a human or
pet animal on base, as well as any animal thought to be an imminent threat to human safety.

7.1.3.4. (Added) Will be responsible for the removal of dead animals from Osan Air Base.

7.1.3.5. (Added) Will respond to 51 CES Non-Emergency Fire Desk calls (784-4710) and alert
51 CES Pest Management technician on call to stray animals. This will include strays on the
airfield or those that pose a danger to the base population.

7.1.4. (Added) 51st Security Forces Squadron (51 SFS). Will investigate incidents of pet animal
bites involving humans on base, if needed.

7.1.5. (Added) 51st Force Support Squadron (51 FSS). Will ensure that food facility trash is
handled and stored in a manner that eliminates access by stray or wild animals.

7.1.6. (Added) Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF).

7.1.6.1. (Added) Is responsible for registering pet animals residing on Osan Air Base. This will
be facilitated by a briefing to all inbound personnel during in processing by the Veterinary staff.

7.1.6.2. (Added) The base Veterinary Corps Officer (VCO) is responsible for the examination,
immunization, and treatment of pet animals IAW AFJI 48-131 (Army Regulation 40-905),
Veterinary Health Services, and USFKR 40-5, Pet Control and Veterinary Service for Domestic
Pets.

7.1.6.2.1. (Added) The VTF staff will investigate all details of animal bite cases and make
recommendations for the quarantine of involved animals. Contact the Veterinary Technician on
call (011-9040-5171) or Veterinary Clinic 784-6614.

7.1.6.2.2. (Added) Upon recommendation of 51 SFS, 51 CES or other base agency will inspect
quarters of suspected neglected and/or abused pets to determine if signs of abuse and/or neglect
are present.
4                                                    AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011

7.1.6.2.3. (Added) Will ensure euthanasia is accomplished in a humane manner, using approved
drugs and techniques (see American Veterinary Medical Association on Euthanasia, 2007 and
the Humane Society of the United States’ General Statement Regarding Euthanasia Methods for
Dogs and Cats, 1999).

7.1.7. (Added) 51st Medical Group (51 MDG).

7.1.7.1. (Added) Emergency Department is responsible for the initial treatment of all animal bite
patients.

7.1.7.2. (Added) Public Health is responsible for oversight of the treatment and follow-up of
animal bite patients and acts as the liaison between the 51 MDG and the VTF.

7.1.8. (Added) Pet Animal Owner.

7.1.8.1. (Added) Is responsible for the registration, identification, immunization, care and
control of their pets.

7.1.8.1.1. (Added) Owners should adhere to annual appointments as detailed in attachment 2 for
Rabies immunizations, parasite check and an examination for zoonotic diseases.

7.1.8.1.2. (Added) All pet animals previously registered and cared for at a military installation
must be registered with the VTF within 10 duty days of arrival.

7.1.8.1.3. (Added) All animals must be registered regardless of the fact that the owner resides on
or off base.
7.1.8.1.4. (Added) Any newly acquired pet must have proof of an appointment with the
veterinary clinic BEFORE being allowed onto base. This includes pets hand carried onto the
installation.

7.1.8.2. (Added) Will immediately remove and properly dispose of their pet's feces from any site
on base. Designated pet areas shall be utilized near housing.

7.1.8.3. (Added) Will ensure their pets do not become a nuisance to other persons. A pet shall
be considered a nuisance when it is established that such a pet has unduly interfered with the
right of other persons to the quiet enjoyment of their housing or property.

7.1.8.4. (Added) Will ensure their pets do not become dangerous to the safety and well-being of
other persons or pets, especially in regard to repeated animal bites or continual acts of
viciousness.

7.1.8.5. (Added) Will ensure their pets do not cause damage to government quarters or property.

7.1.8.6. (Added) The owner of an animal that has bitten or scratched a person will fully comply
with the quarantine procedures established by the VTF and this instruction.
AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011                                                                  5

7.1.8.7. (Added) Pet owners who submit animals to neglect, abuse, abandonment, or inhumane
treatment are subject to command action and the privilege of such individuals to maintain
animals on base will be forfeited. Any owner who is instructed to remove their pet from the
installation will be responsible for making arrangements for care of the pet at a civilian facility.

7.1.8.8. (Added) Will maintain proper immunizations documentation, approved pet carrier, and
other specific requirements for pet animals IAW Non-combatant Evacuation Operations (NEO)
regulations.

7.1.9. (Added) Base employees, residents, and visitors.

7.1.9.1. (Added) Are prohibited from feeding and/or harboring wild animals on Osan Air Base.

7.1.9.2. (Added) Will not interfere with the trapping of stray or wild animals.

7.2. (Added) Pet Ownership.

7.2.1. (Added) Pet Animal Ownership Limits.

7.2.1.1. (Added) Family Housing. Only two pet animals per household (small caged animals,
birds, and fish are excluded) are authorized. Requests for exceptions must be submitted in
writing to the Housing Office for approval by the 51 MSG/CC. Note: Breeding or raising
animals for commercial purpose is strictly prohibited. The Veterinary facility will not provide
care for breeding stock or their offspring per AFJI 48-131 (Army Regulation 40-905).
Unexpected litters are not required to be registered at birth, but will be properly and humanely
adopted out prior to 90 days of age.
7.2.1.2. (Added) Dormitories. Fish aquariums (20 gallon container or less) are permitted, but
must be kept clean. Dogs, cats, small mammals, dangerous fish or reptiles, other unusual pets or
insects, or wild animals are not permitted in dormitories under any circumstances.

7.2.1.3. A pet animal is defined as any dog, cat, ferret, small rodent, rabbit, small bird
(excluding raptors, or rare and endangered species) kept as a companion animal. Any animal
that could be considered livestock (horses, sheep, cattle, goats, pigs and chickens) or wild will
not be allowed on base and is not considered a pet under the concept of this instruction. Fish
aquariums are permitted in base housing, dormitories, and work stations if permitted by
supervisor. Note: While some animal species are permitted to enter the Republic of Korea and
allowed to be maintained as pets on Osan AB, not all animals may be allowed back to the United
States upon PCS (principally avian species at this time due to Avian Influenza). Owners are
encouraged to check with their veterinarian on import and export restrictions prior to arrival in
and departure from Korea.

7.2.2. (Added) Pet Animal In-Processing.

7.2.2.1. (Added) Registration. All dogs, cats, and other pets three months of age or older that
have Permanent Change of Station (PCS)’d here and have been under the previous care of a
veterinarian on a military base (except fish, small caged mammals and birds) and will be on base
6                                                    AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011

at any time must be registered with the VTF, Building 766, within 10 duty days after arrival or
acquisition. All animals must be registered regardless of the fact that the owner resides on or off
base.

7.2.2.1.1. (Added) Any newly acquired animal must have proof of a veterinary appointment
before being allowed on base. This includes animals hand carried through the gate.

7.2.2.2. (Added) Permanent Identification.

7.2.2.2.1. (Added) All cats and dogs owned by Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) status
owners residing or visiting Osan Air Base for 10 days or longer are required to be permanently
identified with a universally readable subcutaneously implanted microchip. All animals must be
identified regardless of the fact that the owner resides on or off base.

7.2.2.3. (Added) Immunizations:

7.2.2.3.1. (Added) Present written certification of immunizations required for registration. See
Attachment 2 for a complete listing of required immunizations. If immunizations are required,
make an appointment with the VTF for administration of required medications or testing.

7.2.2.3.2. (Added) Rabies Vaccination:

7.2.2.3.2.1. (Added) All dogs and cats, which are registered at the Osan Air Base. VTF will be
immunized against rabies at the age of 12 wks and thereafter in accordance with the most current
Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control, as published by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and current guidelines set by the Army Veterinary Standardization Board
(Attachment 2).

7.2.2.3.2.2. (Added) Rabies immunization will be documented by the VTF on DD Form 2208,
Rabies Vaccination Certificate. The original DD Form 2208 plus a metal vaccination tag will be
given to the owner at the time the vaccination is accomplished. A copy of the certificate will be
maintained in the VTF. Dogs are encouraged to wear the metal tags. Cats are not permitted to
roam unleashed on Osan Air Base and are not required to wear the metal tag while indoors.

7.2.2.4. (Added) Zoonotic Disease Control. See attachment 2 for vaccine and de worming
guidelines.

7.2.3. (Added) Pet Animal Out-Processing.

7.2.3.1. (Added) Pet owners will out-process through the VTF when departing for a PCS or
notify clinic within 10 days when the pet dies, is sold, or changes ownership.

7.2.3.2. (Added) An owner will not abandon a pet upon departure from this base or under any
other circumstances. Contact any local stray shelter for more information on relinquishing a pet.

7.2.4. (Added) Expense.
AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011                                                                 7



7.2.4.1. (Added) Care of Animal. The owner will pay expenses incident to the registration,
immunization, impoundment, quarantine, and treatment of pets.

7.2.4.2. (Added) Personnel and Property. The owner of any pet can be held responsible for any
expenses incurred by the Medical Treatment Facility or local hospitals in the treatment of any
person for injury inflicted or damage to property as the result of the pet owner’s failure to control
their pet.

7.2.5. (Added) Care. Proper care consists of, but is not limited to, providing adequate food and
water, regular exercise for dogs, clearing feces from yards, preventing damage or destruction of
government property, controlling the amount of noise made to avoid disturbing other base
residents, and ensuring prompt medical care as necessary.

7.2.6. (Added) Control.

7.2.6.1. (Added) Pets must reside in the owner’s residence. Pets may not be chained or tied to
any part of the housing unit, trees or shrubs, or staked out in any open area.

7.2.6.2. (Added) Owners must maintain control of pets at all times when the pet is located on
Osan Air Base. Pets will be controlled on a leash (not to exceed 15 feet in length) or in a pet
carrier when outside of the owner’s residence unless in an approved “dog run” area. Pets will
not be permitted to run at large on this installation.

7.2.6.3. (Added) Pets will not disturb the peace or become a nuisance or threat to other animals,
persons or property (i.e., constant barking, loose, barking between the hours of 2200 and 0600).
7.2.6.4. (Added) Pet owners are responsible for picking up and properly disposing their pet’s
feces immediately.

7.2.6.5. (Added) Pets will not be left unattended in vehicles while on the installation for any
amount of time.

7.2.6.6. (Added) Pets with the exception of handicap assistance animals and Military Working
Dogs, will not be permitted in the following buildings: Hospital; base exchange; commissary;
food service facilities; swimming pool areas; clubs; theater; lodging and temporary living
quarters, with the exception of those rooms designated by Turumi Lodge for use by members
with pets; dormitories; any other places where pets are determined by the base veterinarian or
public health officer to be a health hazard; and other public buildings as determined by the 51
MSG/CC.

7.2.6.7. (Added) Violations. Complaints concerning damage, injury, or constant nuisance
caused by pets or other animals will be reported to the 51 SFS who will prepare an AF Form
3545, Incident Report.

7.2.7. (Added) Animal Abuse and Neglect.
8                                                      AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011

7.2.7.1. (Added) Along with the privilege of maintaining animals on Osan Air Base comes the
responsibility of caring for them in a healthy and humane manner. Animal abuse or neglect has
serious consequences and will not be tolerated on this installation.

7.2.7.2. (Added) Suspected cases of animal abuse or neglect will be reported to the 51 SFS
and/or the VCO. Once a complaint is received, the following actions will be taken:

7.2.7.2.1. (Added) 51 SFS, 51 CES Housing Office, and the VCO will be notified of the
complaint.

7.2.7.2.2. (Added) As requested, a 51 SFS will accompany personnel from the VTF to
investigate the complaint and issue a notification letter to the occupant. The VCO will complete
a report on the alleged animal abuse/neglect case. The report will include the initial complaint,
specific findings, recommended corrective action, and follow-up findings. 51 SFS will
accomplish a blotter entry documenting that the visit was conducted.

7.2.7.2.3. (Added) If corrective action has not been taken within 72 hours, a final report will be
forwarded to the Defense Force Commander; Chief, Family Housing; Commander of the
individual concerned; and 51 MSG/CC.

7.2.8. (Added) Dangerous Pet Animals.

7.2.8.1. (Added) If a pet animal bites, scratches, or attacks another person or pet, this incident
may be reported to the 51 SFS. 51 SFS will primarily investigate incidents involving attacks on
humans; however, 51 SFS may also be called to investigate attacks on other pet animals when
the animal initiating the attack is known to have bitten other animals on base.
7.2.8.2. (Added) Animals that are determined to pose a threat to the safety of base residents
and/or other animals, or that are categorized as a nuisance may be ordered by the 51 MSG/CC to
be permanently removed from Osan Air Base. The 51 SFS, the base VCO and the 51 MSG/CC,
with the 51 MSG/CC retaining the ultimate authority on the disposition of the case, will jointly
evaluate each case. The outcome will be determined on a case-by-case basis.

7.2.8.3. (Added) The 51 MSG/CC may invoke a “Zero Tolerance” rule for all animal-inflicted
injuries (bites, scratches) resulting from violations of the pet control policy, i.e. such violations
automatically results in an order to remove pet(s) from Osan Air Base.

7.2.8.4. (Added) If the 51 SFS determines that the animal involved in the incident was
provoked, the 51 SFS may charge the individual involved for inciting the aggressive behavior.
For the purpose of this instruction, the word provoked is defined as causing an animal to respond
in an aggressive or undesirable manner through direct or indirect stimulation. Owners of pets
under control are not considered responsible for the action the pet may take if the animal is
antagonized or provoked or is approached without the consent of the sponsor or dependent.

7.2.9. (Added) Uncontrolled and Stray Pets.
AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011                                                              9

7.2.9.1. (Added) Uncontrolled pets will be picked up and impounded by 51 CES Pest
Management.

7.2.9.1.1. (Added) Anyone who has knowledge of stray animals on base can contact CE Non
Emergency fire desk at 784-4710 so that the animal can be caught and animal bites prevented.

7.2.9.1.2. (Added) 51 CES Pest Management will attempt to pick up animals noted to be an
imminent threat to human safety. When notified of a stray animal, 51 CES Pest Management
will dispatch a patrol to locate and capture the animal. The on-call Veterinary Technician will be
contacted (011-9040-5171) and take control of the animal once it is brought to the VTF
(technician will not go pick up the animal).

7.2.9.1.3. (Added) Stray pet animals will be scanned for the presence of a microchip. An
attempt will be made to contact an owner. Animals impounded at the VTF will be returned to
the owners when all costs incurred are paid by the owner.

7.2.9.1.3.1. (Added) If it is determined that the owner has PCS’d and abandoned the animal, the
individual’s commander at their gaining base will be contacted for possible actions against the
individual. The animal will then be turned over to the local animal shelter.

7.2.9.1.3.2. (Added) Animals impounded at the VTF with no microchip that are not claimed
after 3 working days may be humanely euthanized. If the animal is in such poor health that is
would be inhumane to hold for three days, the VCO may use their discretion and euthanize the
animal.

7.2.10. (Added) Removal of an Animal from Osan Air Base.

7.2.10.1. (Added) MSG/CC may order the temporary impoundment of any animal and may
order any animal to be removed from Osan Air Base at any time when, in his/her opinion, such
action is necessary.

7.2.10.2. (Added) “Three Strikes Rule”. The 51 SFS will respond to all complaints of animal
inflicted injuries, damage, or nuisance (loud noise, unattended, etc.). Complainant statements,
subject statements, and an Incident Report will be accomplished in all cases where a sponsor is
found to have violated the pet control policy. Reports will be forwarded to unit commander for
action, as is the case with all reports. Successive violations will be dealt with using “Three
Strikes” rule (51 MSG/CC will be notified of repeat offenses):

7.2.10.2.1. (Added) First violation: Unit commander takes action and ensures member
implements required control measures to prevent recurrence.

7.2.10.2.2. (Added) Second violation: Unit commander takes progressive action. The member
may be required to appear before 51 MSG/CC to petition to retain pet on base, if so desired. The
member must clearly demonstrate effective control measures to retain their pet.
10                                                  AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011

7.2.10.2.3. (Added) Third violation: Unit commander takes progressive action. 51 MSG/CC
automatically orders member to remove pet from Osan Air Base.

7.2.11. (Added) Disposal of Deceased or Unwanted Pets.

7.2.11.1. (Added) Owners are responsible for disposing of any animal when directed by the base
veterinarian or other authority.

7.2.11.2. (Added) When an animal is no longer desired as a pet, the owner is responsible for
legally disposing of it or finding a new home for it. No animal will be released or disposed of on
Osan Air Base. Animal owners should contact the VTF for advice on disposal of animals.

7.3. (Added) Wild Animal Control.

7.3.1. (Added) General. Stray and wild animals must be controlled to ensure health and safety
of personnel, their pets and working animals on Osan Air Base. Within mission priorities and
limitations, a trap and remove program will be the primary means for control of stray and wild
animals on this installation. Shoot-to-kill orders will be used principally when flight line
operations are endangered or an animal proves an immediate threat to human safety. The
following are the basic tenants of an integrated pest management approach to the problem of
stray and wild animal control on this installation.

7.3.2. (Added) Employees, residents, and visitors will not feed stray or wild animals.

7.3.3. (Added) 51 CES and 51 FSS will work together to improve trash handling practices and
disposal to eliminate access to food trash by stray, wild, and pest animals.

7.3.3.1. (Added) Areas on base requiring close attention include, but are not limited to, food
facilities and family housing.

7.3.3.2. (Added) 51 CES and base agencies will work together to eliminate access to and
harborage of stray, wild, and pest animals.

7.3.4. (Added) 51 CES Pest Management will conduct an active trap and remove program for
stray and wild animals.

7.3.4.1. (Added) Tampering with Animal Traps. Base employees, residents, and visitors will
not release or otherwise interfere with the trapping of stray or wild animals.

7.3.4.2. (Added) Animals will be trapped utilizing humane methods whenever possible.
Animals considered to endanger flight line operations may be humanely shot utilizing an
appropriate sized ammunition and scope. Use of a shotgun is prohibited as it will not ensure
humane death of the animal.

7.3.4.3. (Added) Wild animals will be immediately euthanized by the base veterinarian utilizing
the most appropriate humane method (as determined by the base VCO).
AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011                                                             11



7.4. (Added) Zoonotic Disease Prevention.

7.4.1. (Added) Potential Rabies Exposure. Humans and animals are exposed to rabies virus
through the bites and scratches of an infected animal. While any warm-blooded mammal may be
infected by the rabies virus, not all mammal species are implicated in transmission of rabies
virus.

7.4.1.2. (Added) In the Republic of Korea (ROK), dogs, cattle, and raccoon are the most
common animals found to be infected with rabies.

7.4.1.3. (Added) Human rabies infection from the bite of a small rodent is extremely unlikely
(USA and ROK). They are generally not considered rabies vectors.

7.4.2. (Added) Potential Rabies Exposure to Humans.

7.4.2.1. (Added) Individual will report to the on base Emergency Department (ED) for
treatment, if eligible for care.

7.4.2.2. (Added) The ED will initiate DD Form 2341, Animal Bite-Potential Rabies Exposure
Report of. When the patient and the owner are not the same, the ED will contact 51 SFS by
telephone at 784-5515.

7.4.2.3. (Added) The ED will contact the VTF for the current immunization status of the animal
involved in the bite incident.

7.4.2.4. (Added) 51 SFS will initiate an AF Form 3545, except when the owner’s pet bites a
family member. An AF Form 3545 will be completed in all bite cases when it is determined that
the owner of the biting animal has not complied with the base immunization requirements in
Attachment 2. The AF Form 3545 will contain sufficient information to enable the 51MSG/CC
to determine whether or not the pet should be allowed to remain on base.

7.4.2.5. (Added) The ED will forward DD Form 2341 to Public Health who will review each
case and forward DD Form 2341 to the VTF.

7.4.2.6. (Added) VCO will investigate the circumstances on bite cases, contact the owner to
bring in their pet for examination and determine when and where the animal will be quarantined
and promptly report their findings to Public Health.

7.4.2.7. (Added) All dogs and cats that bite a person must be held for 10 days from the time of
the bite at a place designated by the VCO.

7.4.2.7.1. (Added) Dogs, cats, and ferrets are the only animals that should be held for
observation following a bite. Dogs, cats, and ferrets with a current rabies vaccination can usually
be quarantined at home.
12                                                    AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011

7.4.2.7.1.1. (Added) If the dog, cat, or ferret does not have a current rabies vaccination, the
animal will usually be quarantined at the VTF at the expense of the owner.

7.4.2.7.2. (Added) All other mammals (except rodents and lagomorphs) responsible for biting
humans should be safely captured and euthanized. VTF will prepare and submit specimens for
testing.

7.4.2.8. (Added) Any animal involved in a biting incident that dies during the quarantine period
will be immediately presented to the VTF for preparation and transportation to the appropriate
medical laboratory to accomplish laboratory examination for rabies. Care must be taken to avoid
damage to the head or brain tissue of such animals.

7.4.2.9. (Added) Animal bites or scratches occurring off base.

7.4.2.9.1. (Added) The VTF will contact the appropriate host nation health department for
quarantine.

7.4.2.9.2. (Added) Animal(s) involved will be placed in quarantine following such incidents at
the discretion of the appropriate health department.

7.4.2.9.3. (Added) The VTF will follow up with the appropriate health department at the end of
the 10-day quarantine period and report results to Public Health.

7.4.3. (Added) Potential Rabies Exposure to Animals.

7.4.3.1. (Added) Dogs and cats currently immunized against rabies (more than three weeks prior
to being exposed) which have been exposed to another animal known or reasonably suspected to
be rabid, will be immediately given a booster dose of rabies vaccine within three days of the
exposure.

7.4.3.2. (Added) Dogs and cats not immunized against rabies (includes animals never
vaccinated and those who are not current on their rabies vaccine), which have been exposed to
another animal known or reasonably suspected to be rabid, should be destroyed immediately. If
the owner is unwilling to have this done, the exposed animal will be placed in strict isolation at
the owner’s expense for a period of not less than 180 days. Owners may be required to purchase
isolation services from a civilian facility if military facilities or manpower are not adequate, as
determined by the base VCO. The animal should be immunized against rabies 1 month before
being released.




                                                   PATRICK C. MALACKOWSKI, Col, USAF
                                                   Commander
AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011                                                                                   13


                                           Attachment 1 (Added)

                                Vaccination Protocol Canine and Feline

Table A1.1. (Added) Vaccination Protocol

  VACCINATION PROTOCOL-Recommended vaccines for all Healthy Privately                           Owned Animals
  CORE/NONCORE VACCINES
  Vaccine          Brand                Primary Vaccination                                     Booster Frequency
  DA₂PP or DAP³    Vanguard Plus 5      Safe at 6 weeks of age or older. To be given every      Annual Booster
  (three options   (Pfizer)             3-4 weeks with last dose being given at or after 16
  depending on the                      weeks of age. Dogs over 16 weeks of age should
  desired booster                       initially receive 2 doses 3-4 weeks apart.
  frequency and    Vanguard Plus5 L4    To be given every 3-4 weeks beginning after 12          Annual Booster
  components)      (Pfizer) (may be     weeks of age with last dose being given at or after
                   used when lepto      16 weeks of age. Dogs over 16 weeks of age
                   vaccination is given should initially receive 2 doses 3-4 weeks apart.
                   at the same time as  Dogs only requiring the lepto booster should only
                   DA₂PP)               receive the lepto vaccine.
                   Intervet Continuum   Safe at 6 weeks of age or older. To be given every      Revaccinate every 3
                   Canine HCP           3-4 weeks until 16 weeks of age. Dogs over 16           years with a single dose
                   (Shering-Plough)     weeks of age should receive initially 2 doses 3-4
                                        weeks apart. Dogs receiving this vaccine should
                                        also receive the lepto vaccine as part of the
                                        preventive medicine recommendation unless lepto
                                        vaccination is current.
  Rabies-b         Imrab 3 TF (Merial) Vaccine can be given at 12 weeks of age for older.       First booster at 1 year
                                        Ideal vaccination time is at 16 weeks.                  and then every 3 years
  NONCORE VACCINE
  Vaccine          Brand                Primary Vaccination                                     Booster Frequency
  Leptospira sp.   Vanguard-L4          Initial vaccination for puppies older than 12 weeks     Annual Booster
  (see lepto       (Pfizer)             of age with a booster in 3-4 weeks with last dose
  summary)                              being given at or after 16 weeks of age. Dogs over
                                        16 weeks of age should initially receive 2 doses 3-4
                                        weeks apart.
  OPTIONAL VACCINES
  Vaccine            Brand                 Primary Vaccination                                  Booster Frequencv
  Corona             Recombitck Corona     Initial vaccination should receive 2 doses           Annual Booster Only
                     (Merial)              administered 2-4 weeks apart. Puppies need to be     for high risk patients
                                           vaccinated every 2-4 weeks until at or after 12      of those requiring the
                                           weeks of age. Safe for puppies as young as 6 weeks   vaccine for boarding.
                                           of age.
  Lyme               Recombitek Lyme       Recommended only in high incidence areas: ME.        Annual Booster
                     (Merial)              VT, CT, NH, R.I, MA, NJ, NY, PA, MD, DE. VA.
                                           MI. IL, W I, and MN. Initial vaccination should
                                           receive 2 doses administered 2-4 weeks apart. Safe
                                           for puppies as young as 9 weeks of age.
  Porphyromon3S      Porphyromonas         Recommended only in cases of advanced                Booster every 6-12
  Bacterin           (Pfizer)              periodontitis requiring increased frequency of       months
                                           dental prophylaxis. Initial vaccination should
                                           receive 2 doses administered 3-4 weeks apart.
  Canine Influenza   Canine Influenza      Recommended only for patients with increased         Annual Booster
                     Vaccine, H3N8         risk living in high incidence regions. At the
                     (Shering-Plough))     writing of these guidelines the high risk regions
                                           include FL, P A, NY, NJ, CO, CA, DE, VA, and
                                           DC. Initial vaccination should receive 2 doses
                                           given 2 to 4 weeks apart. First vaccine
                                           recommended at 8 weeks of age or older
14                                                             AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011


     Bordetella      Vanguard-B                                                                  Nasal booster can be
                                            Recommended only for patients with increased
                     Intranasal                                                                  given 2-4 weeks
                                            risk. Initial vacci nation for puppies should
                     ( Pfizer)                                                                   before expected
                                            receive a single Intranasal (0.5 mL into each
                                                                                                 exposure.
                     Bronchicine            nostril) dose and be boostered with the Injectable   Injectable form
                     Injectable ( Pfizer)   dose in 2-4 weeks. Safe for puppies (Intranasal)     recommended for
                                            3 weeks of age, (Injectable) 8 weeks of age. See     regular Annual
                                            Bordetella Summary for information on initial        Booster
                                            adult vaccination.
     VACCINATION PROTOCOL (option 1) -      Recommended vaccines for all Healthy Privately Owned
     Animals
     CORE VACCINES
     Feline Wellness Protocols
     Vaccine         Brand                  Primary Vaccination                                  Adult Frequency
     FVRCP           Felocell-3 ( Pfizer)   Initial vaccination should receive 2 doses 3-4       Annual.
                                            wks apart starting at 12 weeks old. The last
                                            vaccine should be given at 16 weeks or older
     Rabies          Imrab 3(Merial)        Initial vaccine given as early as 8 weeks            Q 3 years


NOTE:
1. Select a single vaccine brand to be used on individual patients. The two types ( DA2PP or
DAP) should not be interchanged during the initial vaccination series. No booster is necessary
when switching products in adult patients with documentation of an age appropriate initial
vaccination series. Individual locations may stock one or both of the options. Note that although
Para influenza is listed in the core section of the protocol. The VMSB committee considers this
vaccine component to be noncore (it is being used here only because it is part of the multivalent
vaccine).
2. State and Country Laws for Rabies Vaccination must be followed if more frequent
vaccination is required that recommended in this standard.
3. Giardia, Leishmania, Babesia, Crotalus atrox toxoid and Melanoma are not recommended or
available on the formulary. Please refer to the summary towards the end of the document.
4. State and Country Laws for Rabies Vaccination must be followed if more frequent than
recommended in this standard.
5. Select a single vaccine brand to be used on individual patients. The two brands should not be
interchanged during initial boostering. No booster is necessary when switching products in adult
patients with documentation of an age appropriate initial vaccination series. Individual locations
may stock one or both of the options.
6. The Idexx SNAP Feline Triple Test or SNAP® FIV./FeLV Combo Test should be completed
prior to vaccinating with the FeLV and/or FIV vaccines. A negative FeLV test result must be
documented in the medical record at the time of immunization for the support guarantee to be
valid (See Feline Retroviral Testing Guidelines).
AFJI48-131_51FWSUP 10 JUNE 2011                                                                                         15




Table A1.2. (Added) Preventive Care

  PREVENTIVE CARE
  Product                      Frequency                                                Brand or Method
  Heartworm Test               Yearly for adults except in specific regions where       Idexx SNAP 4DX (based on
                               heartworm disease is not considered endemic due to       availability)
                               the environment (i.e. Alaska, Greenland, Iceland)
  Heartworm Preventative       Monthly per pack instructions. If monthly heartworm      Refer to Formulary
                               preventative is not used in nonendemic regions then it
                               is recommended to deworm at each annual visit
                               despite a negative fecal.
  Flea and Tick Preventative   Monthly per pack instructions                            Refer to Formulary
  Fecal Test                   Each puppy vaccine visit and yearly for adults. A        Fecal Float or Centrifugation
                               fecal will be conducted at each puppy visit to detect
                               other parasites not eliminated with Pyrantel Pamoate
                               (coccidia, whipworms, and others)
  Deworming                    Each puppy vaccine visit                                 Pyrantel Pamoate
