                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARIES OF THE                       AIR FORCE JOINT INSTRUCTION 32-9006
ARMY AND THE AIR FORCE                                                     DA PAMPHET 405-1
                                                                                  22 FEBRUARY 1995

                                                                                      Civil Engineering

                                                    ARMY AND AIR FORCE BASIC REAL ESTATE
                                                                            AGREEMENTS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: AFREA/MI                                                                    Certified by: SAF/MI
       (Mr Chuck G. Skidmore)                                                 (Mr. Rodney A. Coleman)
Supersedes AFR 87-15, 10 October 1969.                                                         Pages: 3
                                                                                       Distribution: F


This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management. It explains the agreements
between the Air Force and Army for the acquisition, outgrant, and disposal of real property, as well as
other property uses. This instruction does not apply to base closures handled by the Air Force Base Con-
version Agency (AFBCA).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction highlights the increased responsibilities for real estate actions delegated to Air Force
major commands (MAJCOM) and updates the guidance for use of Certificates of Necessity. ARMY: The
Army pamphlet 405-1 replaces AR 405-5 which has been rescinded.



1. Definition of Real Estate. Real estate or real property includes:
   • Any interest in land, together with the improvements, structures and fixtures such as installed
       equipment and appurtenances thereto, and leaseholds, under the control of the Air Force.
   • Improvements of any kind, structures and fixtures such as installed equipment, under the control
       of the Air Force when designated for disposition without the underlying land.
   • Standing timber and embedded gravel, sand, stone, or underground water under the control of the
       Air Force whether designated for disposition by the Air Force or by severance and removal from
       the land. This does not include timber felled, water stored and gravel, sand or stone excavated by
       or for the Government before disposition.
2. Acquisition and Disposition of Real Estate:
   2.1. Coordination between the Air Force and the Army. The Department of the Air Force may
   use the services of the Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, for the acquisition and disposi-
   tion of real estate. (Otherwise, the Air Force MAJCOM must take the necessary actions.) The Air
   Force may issue instructions to the Corps to guide particular types of transactions. All levels of the
   Air Force may communicate directly with the appropriate Corps of Engineers office on real property
   matters. Provide the Corps of Engineers Headquarters and the appropriate Corps of Engineers divi-
   sion information copies of the directive.
   2.2. Acquiring Real Estate. The Air Force Real Estate Agency (AFREA/MI) or appropriate Air
   Force MAJCOM asks the Corps of Engineers to acquire real property to meet new or expanded Air
   Force requirements. An Air Force acquisition request contains:
       • Authority to take action.
       • The location of the property.
       •   The funding source.
       •   The name of the installation requesting the property.
       •   The name of the disbursing officer.
       •   Any special instructions.
   2.3. Certificate of Necessity For Certain Leased Property. MAJCOMs, through AFREA/MI,
   obtain a Certificate of Necessity from the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations),
   SAF/MII, for leased property in these cases when:
       • The proposed annual rent exceeds 20 percent of the property's fair market value.
       • Alterations, improvements, and repairs are expected to exceed 30 percent of the property's fair
           market value for either of these periods: --The first year's rent.-- The entire rental period, if it's
           less than 1 year.
   2.4. Disposal of Real Estate. AFREA/MI notifies the Corps of Engineers when a parcel of real prop-
   erty is no longer needed. The Corps of Engineers then disposes of the property according to applica-
   ble laws and regulations.
   2.5. Notice of Property Availability. When the Corps of Engineers receives notice from the appro-
   priate Air Force level that Air Force property is available for nonmilitary use, the Corps of Engineers
   will prepare the necessary outgrant document for Air Force execution for the nonAir Force use of such
   property. This is subject to any conditions in the Notice of Availability.
   2.6. Corps of Engineers as Custodian of Legal Records. The Corps of Engineers is custodian of
   legal records concerning Air Force real property. Furnish the Corps of Engineers a copy of all real
   estate documents executed by the Air Force. The Corps of Engineers gives the Air Force, as required,
   copies of legal records relating to the acquisition, disposition, or temporary use of Air Force property.
   2.7. Sale of Crops and Use of Timber. The Air Force is responsible for selling any crops grown on
   Air Force installations and arranging for the use and disposal of timber grown on Air Force installa-
   tions.




                                                   2
,




    3
