BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE MANUAL 23-110, VOLUME 2,
21ST SPACE WING                                                           PART 13, CHAPTER 3

                                                                                     21ST SPACE WING
                                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                            8 APRIL 2008

                                                                                    Materiel Management

                                                                        CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                       Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: LSC/LGRSP                                                                   Certified by: LRS/LGRS
                                                                                (Mr. Thomas M. O’Toole)
Supersedes AFMAN23-110V2PT13CH3_21SWSUP1,                                                        Pages: 3
           23 August 2005;
           AFMAN23-110V2PT13CH5_21SWSUP1,
           29 Mar 99

The OPR for this supplement is 21 LRS/LGRS (Ms. Sharon Middleton). This supplement supersedes
AFMAN23-110V2PT13CH3_21SWSUP1, 23 Aug 05 and AFMAN23-110V2PT13CH5_21SWSUP1, 29
Mar 99. It implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 23-110, USAF Supply
Manual, 1 April 2007. This supplement describes 21 SW procedures for use in conjunction with the basic
AFMAN. It does not apply to the ANG or AFRC. It applies to all Peterson AFB Standard Base Supply
System (SBSS) functions. It also applies to all activities assigned to and those activities supported by the
21st Space Wing. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Pri-
mary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
IMT 847s from the fields through the appropriate functional’s chain of command." Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force, Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at “https://afrims.amc.af.mil”.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been completely revised to coincide with the basic rewrite and must be completely
reviewed.
3.2.1.1. Only supply response designator codes 1-4 requests will be accepted after 1600, Monday through
Friday, holidays, and weekends. The standard for delivery of issues during post-post operations is one half
hour more than the times reflected in this chapter. The Base Supply Manager (in coordination with the
government Chief of Supply) may suspend delivery functions due to inclement weather. MICAP DORs
2                                             AFMAN23-110V2PT13CH3_21SWSUP 8 APRIL 2008


and priority issues will be delivered; all other DORs or issues are held until road conditions improve.
Pick-Up and Delivery ensures that customers are advised of significant delays.
3.2.2.1. (Added) . Customers will purchase all non-EAID GSA, JBB items (to include hazardous items)
and all (RIC SMS) clothing and individual equipment (FSG 84) through other sources other than SBSS.
Purchases may be made by using the local Envision Store on PAFB, the local economy, or one of the fol-
lowing web sites.
DOD EMALL
https://emall6.prod.dodonline.net/main
Federal Prisons Industries, Inc (UNICOR)
http://www.unicor.gov
General Service Administration (GSA)
https://www.gsaadvantage.gov/advgsa/advantage/main/start_page.do
National Institute for the Blind/National Institute for the Severely Handicapped (NIB/NISH)
http://www.nib.org
Warfighters Clothing Support Page
http://warfighter.dla.mil
3.2.2.2. (Added) . Direct mission organizations (assigned or tenant units) supported by Peterson AFB
Base Supply may screen for excess property in the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO)
located at Fort Carson, Colorado or through the world-wide DRMO on-line web page at https://
www.drms.dla.mil. Screening access is limited to commanders, maintenance officers, shop chiefs, func-
tional chiefs, and their assistants. Customers send requests to the Equipment Management Element to
establish equipment authorization inventory data (EAID) accountability for EAID items withdrawn from
DRMO. All customers needing supplies or non-EAID property must establish a memo due out, TEX H,
through either Customer Service or Equipment Management as appropriate. To establish a due out, the
customer must provide a copy of the Defense Property Disposal Service (DPDS) Form 103, Screeners
Tally to Freeze Excess/Surplus Property, they receive from Fort Carson DRMO or a print out of the
world-wide DRMO inventory listing from the web site. Only Pick-up and Delivery personnel are autho-
rized to receipt for property from the Fort Carson DRMO. An exception to this policy is organizational
personnel may pick up bonafide emergencies when approved by the Base Supply Manager. After process-
ing, property is delivered to the customer.
3.2.3. All non-stock listed weapon systems spare parts will be initially ordered through Base Supply.
Base Supply upon notification from AFMC that an item must be purchased using local purchase proce-
dures will cancel the customer’s due out, if the extended cost is less than $2500.00. If the customer deter-
mines this will be a recurring item, a requisition may be submitted to bring the total purchase over the
$2500.00 threshold. If the customer choses to use a GPC card or reimbursable CLIN, the GPC card or
CLIN must be coded for weapons systems support. The customer will be instructed to purchase the asset
using a GPC or a reimbursable Contract Line Item Number (CLIN). Item(s) with an extended cost greater
than $2500.00 will be re-ordered through Base Contracting by Base Supply. Stock number and part num-
ber items already designated as LP in the SBSS with an extended cost less than $2500, will be ordered
through Base Supply using TEX code “7”, do not requisition, to capture demand data. The due out will
AFMAN23-110V2PT13CH3_21SWSUP 8 APRIL 2008                                                                3


then be cancelled with a TEX “9”, do not decrease cumulative recurring demands or the number of
demands. Customer will then purchase the asset using GPC or CLIN.
3.4. Organizations identify items required by providing the recommended level, stock number, part num-
bers, unit of issue, unit cost, standard reporting designator (SRD), organization code, shop code and bench
stock item number.
3.4.2. Integrated Maintenance Data System Central Database (IMDS CDB) and AMCMMIS (GO81)
organizations assume all BSSS responsibilities for their activity.

Table 3B3.1. Instructions for Preparing the AF Form 2005-Issue/Turn-In Request.
POSITION NUMBER ENTRY
25-29           Quantity Required. When an organization requests a random length item,
                Customer Service coordinates with the applicable warehouse for quantity
                availability. Customer Service advises the customer of the options available
                and assists the customer in requesting the item.

Table 3B9.1. Instructions for Preparing DD Form 1348-6.
BLOCK       ENTRY
11          Initiating activity must enter a recommended source of supply to include address and
            telephone number.

Table 3D1.1. Bench Stock Responsibilities (Customer & LRS/Supply Activity).
Duties & Responsibilities
Organizational customer


Urgent bench stock requirements are called into Customer Service using activity code “X” or “J”. An
urgent bench stock requirement is a requirement that creates a work stoppage if not satisfied.




                                          THOMAS M. O’TOOLE, YC-02, DAFC
                                          Chief of Supply
