BY ORDER OF THE                                                                                    AIR FORCE MANUAL 31-229
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                                    12 MAY 2004

                                                                                                                                      Security

                                                                                  USAF WEAPONS HANDLING MANUAL




                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFSFC/SFWC                                                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/XOF
                                                                                                      (Brig Gen James M. Shamess)
Supersedes AFMAN 31-229, 22 Apr 2003                                                                                    Pages: 48

This manual implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-2, Law Enforcement. It provides guid-
ance on loading, clearing, and issue of USAF-owned firearms. It applies to military, civilian, and contract
personnel as well as personnel from other US military services assigned or attached to Air Force units. It
replaces some information formerly published in AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Per-
sonnel. Records Management. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this pub-
lication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision incorporates interim change (IC) 2003-1, adds standardized handling procedures for the M4
carbine (Attachment 4), the M249 automatic rifle (Attachment 11), the M240B machine gun (Attach-
ment 10) and the M24 rifle (Attachment 12). Attachment 5 now incorporates multiple 12-gauge shot-
guns operating similarly. Attachment 6 adds the M1200 12-gauge shotgun. Blank Ammunition and
Exercise Safety procedures are added. Weapons Decontamination in a Nuclear, Biological, or Chemical
Environment are added. Previous guidance concerning the approval and use of Commer-
cial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) clearing barrels is clarified and simplified. Finally, this revision provides
optional procedures for verification of authority to bear arms using the AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand
Receipt.
      1.      General Guidelines. ...................................................................................................       3
      2.      Issuing Firearms. ........................................................................................................    4
      3.      Clearing Barrels. ........................................................................................................    5
      4.      Blank Ammunition and Exercise Safety. ...................................................................                     6
2                                                                                      AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


    5.    Weapons Decontamination in a Nuclear, Biological, or Chemical Environment. ....                                    7
    6.    Forms Prescribed and Adopted. .................................................................................    7

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                              9

Attachment 2— M9 SEMIAUTOMATIC PISTOL (9MM)                                                                                 11

Attachment 3— M11 SIG SAUER SEMIAUTOMATIC PISTOL (9MM)                                                                      13

Attachment 4— M16 SERIES, GAU/GUU SERIES RIFLES AND M4 SERIES
           CARBINES (5.56MM)                                                                                                15

Attachment 5— M12, M500, M590, M590A1, M590A2, AND M870 SHOTGUN
           (12-GAUGE)                                                                                                       17

Attachment 6— M1200 SHOTGUN (12-GAUGE)                                                                                      20

Attachment 7— M203 GRENADE LAUNCHER (40MM)                                                                                  22

Attachment 8— M79 GRENADE LAUNCHER (40MM)                                                                                   25

Attachment 9— M60 MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)                                                                                      27

Attachment 10— M240B MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)                                                                                   30

Attachment 11— M249 AUTOMATIC RIFLE (5.56MM)                                                                                34

Attachment 12— M24 SNIPER WEAPON SYSTEM RIFLE (7.62MM)                                                                      39

Attachment 13— M14 RIFLE (7.62MM)                                                                                           41

Attachment 14— M15 REVOLVER (.38 CAL)                                                                                       43

Attachment 15— UZI SMG (9MM)                                                                                                45

Attachment 16— HECKLER AND KOCH (H&K) MP5 SMG (9MM)                                                                         47
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                    3


1. General Guidelines. All USAF military, civilian, and contract personnel will use the following stan-
dardized handling procedures when armed with an USAF-owned weapon. HQ AFSFC/SFWC must
approve any deviation to these procedures prior to implementation at the MAJCOM or unit level. The
clearing barrel attendant and the armorer must not engage in any other duties or functions during the
period of weapons handling. Attachment 2 through Attachment 16 address specific loading and
unloading/clearing procedures in detail for each weapon. You must follow these procedures during issue
and turn-in. Upon relief and before turn-in, armed personnel must unload/clear weapons as outlined in
handling procedures for each weapon prior to storing the weapons in the armory. MAJCOMs must
approve unit-developed, weapons handling procedures for weapons not addressed in this publication.
   1.1. Designating Armorer and Clearing Barrel Attendant. The unit commander, or designee, will
   ensure only trained, responsible individuals perform duties of weapons armorer and clearing barrel
   attendant. Designate these positions in writing and document training. The unit commander, or desig-
   nee, must ensure these individuals are authorized to bear arms.
   1.2. Weapons Handling Areas. The weapons handling area is an area free from distractions and pro-
   vides a safe environment for weapons loading and clearing. This area is usually in close proximity to
   the armory and contains one or more approved clearing barrels and “clearing zones”. During field
   deployments or post relief, the commander may designate an area, or areas for weapons handling
   (loading or clearing) when a clearing barrel is not available. Mark areas as outlined in this publication.
   1.3. Clearing Zone. The clearing zone is the space inside the “red lines” within the weapons han-
   dling area, immediately surrounding the clearing barrel. The clearing zone must have red lines on the
   floor for easy identification (ropes or cones may be used in a field environment.) Only the clearing
   barrel attendant and the individual clearing his or her weapon should be within the clearing zone at
   any given time. All other persons waiting to enter the clearing zone must form a line outside the clear-
   ing zone.
       1.3.1. The red line identifying the clearing zone must be at least 4-inches wide. The line can be
       painted, taped, or incorporated into the floor tile pattern.
       1.3.2. The line identifying the front of the clearing zone must be at least 6 feet from the front of
       the clearing barrel.
       1.3.3. The clearing zone must be at least 6 feet wide (3 feet on either side of the clearing barrel’s
       centerline). If the clearing barrel is positioned against a wall, the clearing zone must extend to the
       wall.
       1.3.4. If the location of the clearing barrel permits movement behind the barrel, the clearing zone
       must also extend at least 3 feet to the rear of the clearing barrel.
   1.4. Armorer Responsibilities. The armorer is responsible for:
       1.4.1. Verifying each individual’s authorization to draw a weapon or ammunition, or both.
       1.4.2. Ensuring each weapon is cleared before issue or turn-in.
       1.4.3. Issue all weapons butt first, muzzle elevated, slide or bolt to the rear, and on “safe.”
NOTE: Exception outlined in Attachment 12 for the M24.
       1.4.4. Allow only one person at a time to approach the issue and turn-in area or window.
4                                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


       1.4.5. The armorer must visually inspect and clear each weapon prior to storing the weapon,
       ensuring removal of all ammunition prior to storage. Store weapons as outlined in the detailed
       handling procedures for each weapon outlined in Attachment 2 through Attachment 16.
       1.4.6. The armorer must account for all munitions, weapons and equipment issued daily and as
       required by other publications for items not issued.
    1.5. Clearing Barrel Attendant Responsibilities. It is the clearing barrel attendant’s responsibility
    to ensure safe handling of all weapons and use of standard loading and clearing procedures outlined in
    Attachment 2 through Attachment 16. Additionally, the clearing barrel attendant is responsible for:
       1.5.1. Ensuring individuals desiring to clear weapons enter and exit the clearing zone only upon
       his or her direction.
       1.5.2. Ensuring individuals proceed directly to the clearing barrel after receiving their weapon
       from the armorer.
       1.5.3. Ensuring all personnel approach the clearing barrel with their shoulder weapons at
       “port-arms” or handguns with barrel pointed up.
       1.5.4. Ensuring individuals keep the muzzle of their weapon in the clearing barrel aiming point
       during all weapons loading and clearing procedures.
       1.5.5. Ensuring weapons, munitions and related equipment issued, are returned to the armorer.
       NOTE: Safety glasses are recommended for the clearing barrel attendant and may be worn by the
       individual clearing the weapon. Safety glasses must be made available.
    1.6. Weapons Turn-In. During weapons turn-in, the clearing barrel attendant monitors all weapons
    handling and clearing procedures. After clearing the weapons, and upon direction of the clearing bar-
    rel attendant, individuals proceed directly to the turn-in point. They carry shoulder weapons at
    “port-arms,” and handguns with the barrel pointed up. Individuals must turn-in their weapons to the
    armorer, butt first and muzzle elevated. Munitions and related equipment are turned in at this point.

2. Issuing Firearms. Control the firearms issued by keeping a receipt showing the type of firearm, serial
number, printed name, and signature of the person to whom issued. Although butt numbers may be used
to simplify record keeping, each receipt must bear the proper serial number of the issued weapon.
    2.1. Small Arms Hand Receipt. Use AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt, for people to whom
    firearms are frequently issued, such as Security Forces. Once the form is complete, it must be lami-
    nated. Use of indefinite weapons qualification expiration dates is not authorized. The specific date
    must be used.
    2.2. Temporary Issue Receipt. Record all other issued firearms on AF Form 1297, Temporary
    Issue Receipt. To issue firearms to a flight or other large group, use Air Force or MAJCOM gen-
    eral-purpose work sheets or computer products. Document all the required data and date of issue.
    2.3. Arming Authorization. IAW AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by AF Personnel, the
    appropriate “authorizing official” must sign written authorization to allow individuals the authority to
    bear arms. The written authorization may be issued as a single multi-listing letter, computerized ros-
    ter, aircrew orders, or other group documentation. For individuals other than Security Forces, the
    armorer must verify the arming authorization of the person(s) requesting a weapon through review of
    the signed, written authorization.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                    5


       2.3.1. For personnel who arm routinely, the verification of authority to bear arms may be accom-
       plished prior to issuance of the AF Form 629. Commanders may develop a local policy letter to
       allow the signature of the “authentication official” on the AF Form 629 to serve as a verification
       of authority to bear arms. This procedure may replace the armorer’s review of the master-arming
       list. The local policy must clearly outline the source document used for authentication, signed by
       the commander and meet the documentation requirements stated in AFI 31-207. Persons autho-
       rized by the commander to verify authority to bear arms, and sign the AF Form 629, must be iden-
       tified in writing.
       2.3.2. For Security Forces, regardless of who authenticates the authority to bear arms, the armorer
       must confirm each individual’s authorization to draw a weapon or ammunition at the time of issue.
       For flight personnel, this confirmation is usually accomplished by reviewing the duty roster. Addi-
       tionally, prior to issuing a weapon to a Security Forces member, the armorer must ensure the
       member is not currently listed on the “Do Not Arm List.”

3. Clearing Barrels. The commander must provide clearing barrels at designated clearing locations
(generally, locate these just outside the arms room). All clearing barrels must be checked for serviceabil-
ity annually. Document the annual check as part of a self-inspection program or in your safety book.
   3.1. Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Barrels. COTS clearing barrels may be used once
   approved by HQ AFSFC/SFWC. Approved COTS clearing barrels are listed on the HQ AFSFC web
   site (https://wwwmil.lackland.af.mil/afsf/). MAJCOMs may request approval of additional COTS
   clearing barrels. Requests must be submitted in writing along with documentation on specifications to
   HQ AFSFC/SFWC for review and possible testing.
   3.2. Locally Constructed Barrels. 30-gallon, metal containers may be filled with pea gravel or sand.
   Clearing barrels must be at least 14 inches wide and 24 inches deep. If sand is used instead of pea
   gravel, ensure the sand stays dry. (When these clearing barrels are replaced, consider COTS options
   first.) Each clearing barrel must:
       3.2.1. Be mounted at a height and angle to permit safe and smooth firearms clearing (applicable
       to COTS and locally constructed).
       3.2.2. Have a tray with rubber matting affixed under the aiming point of the barrel to prevent
       dropped rounds from falling to the ground (applicable to COTS and locally constructed).
       3.2.3. Have the floor area below the clearing zone covered by rubber or other resilient matting to
       help prevent damage or primer detonation of a dropped round (applicable to COTS and con-
       structed).
       3.2.4. Have an aiming point in the center of the front lid at least 4 inches in diameter and 1 inch in
       depth (not applicable for COTS clearing barrels).
       3.2.5. Have a 3/4 inch piece of plywood or thick rubber matting covering the diameter of the con-
       tainer fitted directly behind the lid to reinforce it against muzzle blast (not applicable for COTS
       clearing barrels).
   3.3. Written Procedures. Post written firearms clearing procedures above each clearing barrel for
   each type of government firearm stored in the arms room. Procedures may be printed on charts or
   interchangeable cards; however, the print must be large enough to ensure easy reading from inside the
   clearing zone. In overseas locations, also display the written clearing procedures in the host-nation
6                                                                          AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


    language if host-nation personnel use the US arms room or armory. Hand-held, laminated cards or
    checklists may be used in less permanent clearing areas such as field conditions.
    3.4. Arms Room Issue/Turn-in-Barrel. Arms rooms must contain a clearing barrel to facilitate
    weapons inspections at issue and turn-in. This barrel must be at least a 5-gallon barrel, filled with pea
    gravel or an approved COTS barrel. If the barrel is not an approved COTS barrel or a locally con-
    structed barrel meeting the requirements of paragraph 3.1., it cannot be used for loading and unload-
    ing weapons. The barrel may be mounted securely on a wall or ceiling near the issue window, at a
    height and angle permitting safe and smooth weapons inspections.

4. Blank Ammunition and Exercise Safety. Personnel do not have to be qualified on a weapon to par-
ticipate in a tactical exercise using blank ammunition. They must however, be familiar with all safety
requirements and have a working knowledge of the weapon. They must be able to distinguish between
live and blank ammunition. Individual units must provide their own training to emphasize safe handling,
weapon operation, use of blank and operator maintenance. This training must be documented on AF Form
1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training or AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard
Continuation/Command JQS. Units may request combat arms personnel to conduct this training if com-
bat arms manpower permits.
    4.1. Blank Ammunition. Store blank ammunition in separate containers from live ammunition. To
    ensure appropriate segregation and storage, blank ammunition and live ammunition will not be stored
    side-by-side. Consider painting a blue, two-inch wide stripe across the top of the blank ammunition
    container. For weapons with magazines, consider distinctive two-inch wide, blue stripe painted or
    taped around the bottom of the magazine for blank ammunition use. During any exercise where blank
    ammunition is used, an officer or noncommissioned officer will:
       4.1.1. Physically inspect all exercise participants to ensure they are not carrying live ammunition.
       4.1.2. Inspect ammunition and magazines to ensure only blank ammunition is employed. This
       should include a joint inspection with the armorer when ammunition is picked up or turned in.
       4.1.3. Ensure all exercise participants are aware of the physical differences between live and
       blank ammunition and can readily identify both.
       4.1.4. Brief all exercise participants that weapons loaded with blanks and equipped with blank fir-
       ing attachments or adapters, are not to be pointed and fired at any individual within 20 feet of the
       muzzle unless technical data dictates a greater distance.
       4.1.5. When the quantity or type of weapon, or the location of training requires the presence of an
       armed guard, the guard or weapon must be readily identifiable as having live ammunition. Con-
       sider the use of reflective vests or red tape for identification. All exercise participants must be
       aware of the means used to identify who is armed with live ammunition.
    4.2. Exercise Safety. Unit commanders will develop and implement written guidelines for firearms
    safety tailored specifically to exercises or training. In doing so, they must, at a minimum:
       4.2.1. Establish local procedures for conducting exercises or training with blank ammunition with
       or without multiple integrated laser engagement system (MILES) equipment attached.
       4.2.2. Establish local procedures for conducting exercises or training where live ammunition is
       present for guard or security purposes.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                  7


       4.2.3. Address procedures for clearing (removing ammunition) weapons prior to leaving the exer-
       cise area upon completion of any exercise scenario.
       4.2.4. Ensure handguns are carried in an authorized holster or approved container whether carry-
       ing live, blank, or no ammunition.
       4.2.5. Address emergency action procedures should an accident or incident occur.
       4.2.6. Establish emergency notification procedures prior to the exercise. Include at a minimum:
       Security Forces Control Center (SFCC), command post, medical, fire, Explosive Ordinance Dis-
       posal, safety, and local authorities as required, if off the installation. Ensure the SFCC knows the
       exercise location.
       4.2.7. Establish weapons and ammunition disposition procedures in the event an exercise partici-
       pant becomes injured, sick or incapacitated for any reason.
       4.2.8. Establish local procedures ensuring 100% accountability of exercise or training ammuni-
       tion.
       4.2.9. Establish a training and certification program for exercise or training supervisors.
       4.2.10. Appoint, in writing, exercise or training supervisors, ammunition custodians, and person-
       nel armed with live ammunition.
       4.2.11. If possible, ensure radio contact is maintained with the exercise control center, range con-
       trol, or the exercise controllers during all exercises.

5. Weapons Decontamination in a Nuclear, Biological, or Chemical Environment. Weapons are dif-
ficult to completely decontaminate because of lubricants that trap agents. Additionally, chemical droplets
may get into hard to reach places within the weapon’s parts.
   5.1. Immediate Action. Contaminated weapons should be decontaminated within minutes after
   exposure, if possible, using the M291, Skin Decontamination Kit, or M295, Individual Equipment
   Decontamination Kit. Use water-soaked rags to remove the decontamination kit's powder residue.
   When feasible, thoroughly decontaminate the weapon by disassembly and rinsing in a five percent
   chlorine solution. When practical, expose contaminated weapons to moving air. Always wear protec-
   tive gloves when cleaning contaminated weapons. Decontaminate the weapons cleaning tools (clean-
   ing rod and brush) with a five percent chlorine solution. Dispose of the used weapons cleaning
   materials as contaminated waste.
   5.2. Enclosed Space Handling. Contaminated weapon handling in armories or closed spaces. Previ-
   ously contaminated weapons may become inhalation hazards to unmasked personnel within closed or
   unventilated areas. Whenever a previously contaminated weapon is not required for immediate use, it
   should be double wrapped in plastic bags to contain the residual hazard and prevent exposures to low
   level chemical vapors.

6. Forms Prescribed and Adopted.
   6.1. Forms Prescribed. AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt.
8                                                                 AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


    6.2. Forms Adopted. AF Forms 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt; 1098, Special Task Certification
    and Recurring Training; and 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS.



                                           RONALD E. KEYS, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           DCS/Air & Space Operations
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                9


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSFC—Air Force Security Forces Center
COTS—Commercial-Off-The-Shelf
DoD—Department of Defense
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILES—Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System
SFCC—Security Forces Control Center

Terms
Armed—Equipped with a loaded (live ammunition) firearm.
Authentication Official—The individual who signs the AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt. The
commander may develop a policy to allow this individual or individuals to verify authority to bear arms
from the master arming list or other source document as specified.
Commander—An officer who has UCMJ authority over designated personnel and are designated
“commander” on administrative G-series orders.
Deadly Force—Force that causes, or that you know has a substantial risk of causing, death or serious
bodily harm.
Do Not Arm List—A list of assigned personnel who were formerly authorized to be armed, but are no
longer authorized—normally temporary in nature either while an investigation is ongoing or
administrative action is taking place.
Firearm—Any weapon designed to expel a projectile through a barrel by the action of a propellant or one
that you can readily convert to this purpose. The frame or receiver group of any such weapon, any firearm
muffler or silencer, and starter guns are firearms.
10                                                                       AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


Functional Manager—The office of primary responsibility for a particular Air Force specialty.
Examples: HQ USAF/XOF for security forces; HQ USAF/ILE for civil engineers; AF/DP for personnel,
and education and training specialists.
Master Arming List—A list maintained by the arms room or armory personnel containing the minimum
following arming information: full name, social security number, firearm type, and weapon qualification
expiration date.
Port Arms—A right-handed individual holds the rifle diagonally across the body about four inches from
the waist with the right forearm horizontal and elbows close to sides. The right hand is grasping the small
of the stock, while the left hand is grasping the hand-guard or forearm. The muzzle is pointed slightly
elevated in a safe direction. For left-handed operators, inverse the placement of hands.
Rack Safe—The configuration of a weapon while it is stored in an approved rack or storage container.
Each weapon type may differ due to design in operation. In all cases the weapon will be clear of
ammunition. Refer to appropriate attachment for specific configuration.
Serious Bodily Harm—Includes fractured or dislocated bones, deep cuts, torn members of the body,
serious damage to the internal organs, and other life-threatening injuries. Does not include minor injuries
such as a black eye or bloody nose.
Unauthorized Firearms Discharge—Intentionally or accidentally discharging a firearm without
authorization.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                    11


                                              Attachment 2

                               M9 SEMIAUTOMATIC PISTOL (9MM)

A2.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing a M9 pistol:
   A2.1.1. Remove the pistol from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area with the barrel pointed up and slide forward (closed).
   A2.1.2. Visually inspect the pistol to ensure there is no magazine inserted and the decocking/safety
   lever is in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not showing). Do not place fingers into the trigger
   guard.
   A2.1.3. With the muzzle in the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point, lock the slide to the rear and visually
   inspect the chamber and receiver area to ensure there is no ammunition present.
   A2.1.4. Hand the pistol to the requesting individual “butt” first, muzzle elevated, decocking/ safety
   lever in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not showing) and slide locked to the rear (open).

A2.2. Loading. The person arming must proceed to the clearing zone with the pistol barrel pointed up,
slide locked to the rear (open) and decocking/safety lever in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not show-
ing). They then must:
   A2.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A2.2.2. Visually inspect the pistol to ensure the decocking/safety lever is in the “safe” (down) posi-
   tion (red dot indicator not showing).
   A2.2.3. Insert and lock a loaded magazine into the pistol, depress the slide stop, and move the decock-
   ing (safety lever) to the “fire” (up) position (red dot showing). NOTE: When completed, a round of
   ammunition is present in the chamber. When there is a round in the chamber, the extractor protrudes
   laterally (showing red) making it possible to check visually (and to feel) if there is a round in the
   chamber without having to retract the slide or remove the magazine to check the number of rounds in
   the magazine.
   A2.2.4. After loading is complete, holster the pistol (fingers off the trigger) and secure the holster flap
   or thumb break.
   A2.2.5. Do not remove the pistol from the holster except in the line of duty or when clearing it for
   turn-in.

A2.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear their firearms must
approach the clearing zone with their pistol holstered. They then must:
   A2.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, step up to the clearing
   barrel, unfasten the holster flap or thumb break, unholster the pistol (if left-handed, transfer pistol to
   the right-hand) and immediately place the firearm’s muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do
   not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A2.3.2. Holding the pistol in the right-hand, move the decocking/safety lever to the “safe” (down)
   position (red dot not showing). The clearing barrel attendant must verify the pistol is safe to proceed.
12                                                                        AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A2.3.3. Press the magazine release button, remove the magazine from the pistol, and give the maga-
     zine to the clearing barrel attendant.
     A2.3.4. Grasp the slide with the left-hand, cupping the palm of the hand over the ejection port, and
     rotate the pistol 90 degrees to the right.
     A2.3.5. Retract the slide to the rear, catching the ejected round of ammunition, push the slide stop up
     with the thumb to lock the slide back (open), and give the ejected round to the clearing barrel atten-
     dant.
     A2.3.6. Visually inspect the pistol to ensure the chamber and receiver area are clear (no ammunition
     present) and the decocking/safety lever is in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not showing).
     A2.3.7. After the clearing barrel attendant verifies the pistol contains no ammunition and is safe for
     turn-in, proceed to the turn-in point with the pistol barrel pointed up, slide open and the decocking/
     safety lever in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not showing).

A2.4. Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point and hand the pistol to the armorer “butt” first,
muzzle elevated, decocking/safety lever in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not showing) and slide
locked to the rear (open). At no time during the turn-in procedures should anyone place fingers into the
trigger guard. The armorer takes possession of the pistol and immediately places the muzzle into the
issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. The armorer then must:
     A2.4.1. Visually inspect the pistol to ensure it contains no ammunition and is safe for storage.
     A2.4.2. Depress the slide stop and allow the slide to move forward to the closed position.
     A2.4.3. Ensure the pistol’s hammer is in the down (forward) position and ensure the decocking/safety
     lever is in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not showing).
     A2.4.4. The weapon is now “rack safe;” the weapon is free of ammunition; the slide is forward
     (closed) and the decocking/safety lever in the “safe” (down) position (red dot not showing). Store the
     weapon in an approved storage rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                   13


                                              Attachment 3

                      M11 SIG SAUER SEMIAUTOMATIC PISTOL (9MM)

A3.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing a M11 pistol:
   A3.1.1. Remove the pistol from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area with the barrel pointed up and slide forward (closed)
   A3.1.2. Visually inspect the pistol to ensure there is no magazine inserted. Do not place fingers into
   the trigger guard.
   A3.1.3. With the muzzle in the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point, lock the slide to the rear and visually
   inspect the chamber and receiver area to ensure there is no ammunition present.
   A3.1.4. Hand the pistol to the individual being armed “butt” first, muzzle elevated and slide locked to
   the rear (open).

A3.2. Loading. The person arming must proceed to the clearing zone with the barrel pointed up and the
slide locked to the rear (open). Without placing fingers in the trigger guard, they then must:
   A3.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point.
   A3.2.2. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver area to ensure there is no ammunition present.
   A3.2.3. Insert and lock a loaded magazine into the pistol, and depress the slide catch lever. Do not
   place your finger on the trigger. NOTE: When this step is completed, a round of ammunition is
   present in the chamber and the hammer is cocked. If the trigger is depressed the pistol will fire.
   A3.2.4. Depress the decocking lever located on the left side of the weapon, to the full down position
   and ride the lever up. This allows the hammer to move forward safely without danger of firing unless
   the trigger is pulled. NOTE: Do not swipe the lever.
   A3.2.5. After loading is complete, holster the pistol and secure the holster flap, strap, or thumb-break.
   NOTE: It may be necessary to place the thumb on back of the slide to prevent rearward movement of
   the slide during holstering.
   A3.2.6. Do not remove the pistol from the holster except in the line of duty or when clearing it for
   turn-in.

A3.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear the pistol must
approach the clearing zone with the pistol holstered. They then must:
   A3.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, unfasten the holster
   flap, strap, or thumb-break, unholster the pistol (if left handed, transfer the pistol to the right hand),
   and immediately place the firearm’s muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place your
   fingers into the trigger guard.
   A3.3.2. When directed to proceed by the clearing barrel attendant, press the magazine release button,
   remove the magazine from the pistol and give the magazine to the clearing barrel attendant.
14                                                                            AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A3.3.3. Push the slide to the rear, catching the ejected round of ammunition, push the slide catch lever
     up with the thumb to lock the slide back (open), and give the ejected round to the clearing barrel atten-
     dant.
     A3.3.4. Visually inspect the pistol to ensure the chamber and receiver area are clear (no ammunition
     present).
     A3.3.5. After the clearing barrel attendant verifies the pistol is unloaded and it is safe for turn-in, pro-
     ceed to the turn-in point with the pistol barrel pointed up, and the slide open.

A3.4. Turn-in. Approach the turn-in point and hand the pistol to the armorer “butt” first, muzzle ele-
vated and slide to the rear (open). The armorer will take possession of the pistol and immediately place the
muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not at any time during turn-in procedures place fin-
gers into the trigger guard. The armorer then must:
     A3.4.1. Visually inspect the pistol to ensure it contains no ammunition and if it is safe for storage.
     A3.4.2. Depress the slide catch lever and allow the slide to move forward to the closed position.
     A3.4.3. Depress the decocking lever and ensure the pistol’s hammer is in the down (forward) posi-
     tion.
     A3.4.4. The weapon is now “rack safe;” the weapon is free of ammunition, the slide is forward and
     the hammer is in the down (forward) position. Store the weapon in an approved storage rack or con-
     tainer.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                       15


                                                Attachment 4

      M16 SERIES, GAU/GUU SERIES RIFLES AND M4 SERIES CARBINES (5.56MM)

A4.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing a 5.56mm rifle or carbine:
NOTE: All future references to “rifle” includes the SMG and the carbine.
   A4.1.1. Remove the rifle from its storage rack or container, and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area with it in the “port-arms” position. Do not place fingers into trigger guard.
   A4.1.2. Visually inspect the rifle to ensure there is no magazine inserted.
   A4.1.3. With the muzzle in the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point, pull the charging handle to the rear
   while depressing the lower portion of the bolt catch, and lock the bolt to the rear (open) position.
   Return the charging handle to the forward position.
   A4.1.4. Place the selector lever in the “safe” position and visually inspect the chamber and receiver
   area to ensure no ammunition is present.
   A4.1.5. Hand the rifle to the person arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, bolt locked to the rear (open)
   position and selector lever in the “safe” position. Do not place fingers on trigger or into trigger guard
   during issue.

A4.2. Loading. The person arming will immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the rifle in the
“port-arms” position, bolt locked to the rear and selector lever in the “safe” position. Then:
   A4.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into trigger guard.
   A4.2.2. Visually inspect the rifle to ensure the selector lever is in the “safe” position and there is no
   ammunition present in the chamber or receiver area. The clearing barrel attendant will verify the rifle
   is clear and safe.
   A4.2.3. Depress the bolt release, allow the bolt to move to the forward (closed) position; close the
   ejection port cover.
   A4.2.4. With the selector lever in the “safe” position, pull the trigger. If the rifle dry fires, return it to
   the issuing official immediately.
   A4.2.5. If a loaded magazine must be inserted to meet an immediate duty requirement, the magazine
   should be inserted and locked into the magazine well at this time. If there is no immediate need to load
   a magazine, the magazine may be inserted upon assumption of post. A round should not be chambered
   nor should the selector lever be moved to the “semi”, “burst” or “auto” position unless hostilities are
   expected and the armed person must be able to return fire with minimal delay.
   A4.2.6. When relieved from post or duty location (to eat in the dining hall or to take a break), remove
   the magazine from the rifle before entering a building (other than in response to an actual or possible
   threat situation), and insert it upon resuming post.
   A4.2.7. Personnel will sling the rifle over one shoulder with the muzzle pointed either up or down.
   During inclement weather, the rifle should be slung with the muzzle pointed down.
16                                                                          AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


A4.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel must remove the loaded magazine immediately upon
relief from post or duty location. Posting supervisors must ensure removal of the loaded magazine from
the rifle before the individual departs his or her post or duty location. In cases where a posting supervisor
is not present, the individual assuming the post or duty location must ensure removal of the loaded maga-
zine from the rifle of the person relieved.
     A4.3.1. Armed personnel preparing to clear firearms must approach the clearing zone with the rifle in
     the “sling-arms” or “port-arms” position. They then must:
     A4.3.2. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and give the clearing
     barrel attendant the removed, loaded magazine. Unsling the rifle and immediately place the muzzle
     into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard. NOTE: The loaded
     magazine should have been removed from the rifle at the time the person was relieved from his or her
     post or duty assignment. If this has not occurred, depress the magazine release button and remove the
     magazine before proceeding.
     A4.3.3. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the rifle does not have a magazine inserted before
     proceeding with clearing procedures.
     A4.3.4. Visually inspect the rifle to ensure the selector lever is in the “safe” position, pull the charg-
     ing handle to rear while depressing the lower portion of the bolt catch, and lock the bolt to the rear
     (open) position. Return the charging handle to the forward position.
     A4.3.5. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver area to ensure no ammunition is present. The clear-
     ing barrel attendant must verify the rifle contains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
     A4.3.6. Proceed to the firearms turn-in point with the rifle at port-arms, bolt locked to the rear (open)
     position, and selector lever on “safe”.

A4.4. Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point and hand the rifle to the armorer “butt” first,
muzzle elevated, bolt locked to the rear (open) position and the selector lever in the “safe” position. The
armorer will take possession of the rifle and immediately place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel
aiming point. Do not place fingers into trigger guard. They then must:
     A4.4.1. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver area to ensure the rifle contains no ammunition and
     it is safe for storage.
     A4.4.2. Depress the bolt release and allow the bolt to move to the forward (closed) position.
     A4.4.3. Place the selector lever on “semi” and pull the trigger, dry firing the rifle into the issue/
     turn-in barrel. Close the ejection port cover.
     A4.4.4. The rifle is now “rack safe;” free of ammunition, bolt forward (closed) and the selector lever
     in the “semi” position. NOTE: The selector lever cannot be placed on “safe” after the rifle has been
     dry fired. Store the rifle in an approved storage rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                 17


                                             Attachment 5

           M12, M500, M590, M590A1, M590A2, AND M870 SHOTGUN (12-GAUGE)

A5.1. General Information.
   A5.1.1. The above listed shotguns are all 12-gauge, pump-action shotguns. Ammunition is fed from
   the magazine into the chamber and then ejected by the back-and-forth pumping of the fore-end assem-
   bly.
   A5.1.2. There are other shotguns in the Air Force inventory with different characteristics. Units with
   other shotguns in their inventory must refer to the operator’s manual, for their specific model, and
   develop loading, clearing and handling procedures.
   A5.1.3. MAJCOMs must approve unit-developed, loading, clearing and handling procedures for
   weapons not addressed in this publication.

A5.2. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing a 12-gauge, pump action shot-
gun.
   A5.2.1. Remove the shotgun from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area with the shotgun in the “port-arms” position.
   A5.2.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point and ensure the safety is in the
   “safe” position (red band not showing). Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A5.2.3. While depressing the action bar lock, grasp the fore-end with the “non-shooting” hand and
   pull it to the rear, opening the action.
   A5.2.4. Visually inspect the chamber, receiver and magazine to ensure no ammunition is present.
   A5.2.5. Hand the shotgun to the person arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, action open and safety
   in the “safe” position (red band not showing).

A5.3. Loading. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the shotgun in
the “port-arms” position, action open, and safety in the “safe” position (red band not showing). Then:
   A5.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point. Hold the shotgun upright with the strong hand on the pistol grip.
   Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A5.3.2. Rotate the weapon over and visually inspect the chamber, receiver and magazine to ensure
   there is no ammunition present, and the safety is in the “safe” position (red band not showing).
   A5.3.3. While holding the pistol grip of the butt stock in the “shooting hand”, push the fore-end to the
   forward (action closed) position with the “non-shooting” hand.
   A5.3.4. Turn the weapon upside down. While maintaining positive control of the weapon, load the
   first round into the shotgun by inserting it into the magazine through the bottom of the receiver. Keep
   the weapon turned upside down until loading is complete.
18                                                                            AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A5.3.5. Continue to load until the magazine is full. After loading is completed, sling the shotgun over
     one shoulder (if a sling is available) or place the shotgun in the “port-arms” position, and exit the
     clearing zone upon the direction of the clearing barrel attendant.
     A5.3.6. A round should not be chambered nor should the safety be moved to the “fire” position
     unless hostilities are expected and the armed person must be able to return fire with minimal delay.

A5.4. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear their firearms must
approach the clearing zone with the shotgun in the “sling-arms” position (if a sling is available) or in the
“port-arms” position. They then must:
     A5.4.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, unsling the shotgun
     (if slung) and place the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Hold the shotgun upright with the
     strong hand on the pistol grip of the butt stock and the butt stock snug against the side of the body. Do
     not place fingers into the trigger guard.
     A5.4.2. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” position (red band not showing), press in the action bar lock,
     and pull the fore-end slowly to the rear (action open) position until the magazine releases a round of
     ammunition. NOTE: If fore-end is pulled rearward too quickly, the shell will eject several inches from
     the ejection port regardless of weapon tilt.
     A5.4.3. Bring the hand down from the fore-end and place it over the ejection port. Rotate the shotgun
     to the right and allow the released round to drop from the ejection port into the hand. Give the ejected
     round to the clearing barrel attendant, and push the fore-end forward, closing the slide action.
     A5.4.4. Repeat the above two steps until the shotgun is free of ammunition.
     A5.4.5. After you eject all ammunition from the shotgun, count the ejected rounds of ammunition to
     account for all rounds. The clearing barrel attendant must verify all rounds are removed from the shot-
     gun and it is safe to proceed.
     A5.4.6. Visually inspect the chamber, receiver and magazine to ensure there is no ammunition
     present and the safety is in the “safe” position (red band not showing). The clearing barrel attendant
     must verify the shotgun contains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
     A5.4.7. Exit the clearing zone upon the direction of the clearing barrel attendant with the shotgun in
     the “port-arms” position, fore-end in the rear (action open) position, and safety in the “safe” position
     (red band not showing).

A5.5. Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point, and hand the shotgun to the armorer “butt”
first, muzzle elevated, fore-end in the rear (action open) position and the safety in the “safe” position (red
band not showing). The armorer will take possession of the shotgun and immediately place the muzzle
into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers in the trigger guard. They then must:
     A5.5.1. Visually inspect the shotgun to ensure it contains no ammunition and is safe for storage.
     A5.5.2. Push the fore-end to the forward (action closed) position, place the weapon on “fire” and
     dry-fire into the issue/turn-in barrel. After dry firing, the safety must be returned to the “safe” position
     (red band not showing).
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                             19


  A5.5.3. The shotgun is now “rack safe;” the weapon is free of ammunition, the fore-end is in the for-
  ward (action closed) position and the safety is on “safe”. Store the weapon in an approved storage
  rack or container.
20                                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


                                               Attachment 6

                                    M1200 SHOTGUN (12-GAUGE)

A6.1. General Information.
     A6.1.1. The M1200 is a 12-gauge, pump-action shotgun. Ammunition is fed from the magazine into
     the chamber and then ejected by the back-and-forth pumping of the fore end (forearm) assembly.
     A6.1.2. There are other shotguns in the Air Force inventory with different characteristics. Units with
     other shotguns in their inventory must refer to the operator’s manual, and develop loading, clearing
     and handling procedures if not addressed in this publication.
     A6.1.3. MAJCOMs must approve unit-developed, loading, clearing and handling procedures not
     addressed in this publication.

A6.2. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing a 12-gauge, pump action shot-
gun.
     A6.2.1. Remove the shotgun from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
     area with the shotgun in the “port-arms” position.
     A6.2.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trig-
     ger guard.
     A6.2.3. Grasp the fore end with the “non-shooting” hand and pull it to the rear, opening the action.
     Place the safety on “safe” (red band not showing).
     A6.2.4. Visually inspect the chamber, receiver and magazine to ensure no ammunition is present.
     A6.2.5. Hand the shotgun to the person arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, action open and safety
     in the “safe” position (red band not showing).

A6.3. Loading. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the shotgun in
the “port-arms” position, action open, and safety in the “safe” position (red band not showing). Then:
     A6.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
     into the clearing barrel aiming point. Hold the shotgun upright with the strong hand on the pistol grip.
     Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
     A6.3.2. Rotate the weapon over and visually inspect the chamber, receiver and magazine to ensure
     there is no ammunition present, and the safety is in the “safe” position (red band not showing).
     A6.3.3. While holding the pistol grip of the butt stock in the “shooting hand”, push the fore end to the
     forward (action closed) position with the “non-shooting” hand.
     A6.3.4. Turn the weapon upside down. While maintaining positive control of the weapon, load the
     first round into the shotgun by inserting it into the magazine through the bottom of the receiver. Keep
     the weapon turned upside down until loading is complete.
     A6.3.5. Continue to load until the magazine is full. After loading is completed, sling the shotgun over
     one shoulder (if a sling is available) or place the shotgun in the “port-arms” position, and exit the
     clearing zone upon the direction of the clearing barrel attendant.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                     21


   A6.3.6. A round should not be chambered nor should the safety be moved to the “fire” position
   unless hostilities are expected and the armed person must be able to return fire with minimal delay.

A6.4. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear their firearms must
approach the clearing zone with the shotgun in the “sling-arms” position (if a sling is available) or in the
“port-arms” position. They then must:
   A6.4.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, unsling the shotgun
   (if slung) and place the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Hold the shotgun upright with the
   strong hand on the pistol grip of the butt stock and the butt stock snug against the side of the body. Do
   not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A6.4.2. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” position (red band not showing), press in the action bar lock
   (disconnector), and pull the fore end slowly to the rear (action open) position until the magazine
   releases a round of ammunition.
   A6.4.3. Push the fore end forward, closing the slide action (chambering a round).
   A6.4.4. Press action bar lock Repeat the above two steps until the shotgun is free of ammunition.
   A6.4.5. After you eject all ammunition from the shotgun, count the ejected rounds of ammunition to
   account for all rounds. The clearing barrel attendant must verify all rounds are removed from the shot-
   gun and it is safe to proceed.
   A6.4.6. Visually inspect the chamber and magazine to ensure there is no ammunition present and the
   safety is in the “safe” position (red band not showing). The clearing barrel attendant must verify the
   shotgun contains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
   A6.4.7. Exit the clearing zone upon the direction of the clearing barrel attendant with the shotgun in
   the “port-arms” position, fore end in the rear (action open) position, and safety in the “safe” position
   (red band not showing).

A6.5. Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point, and hand the shotgun to the armorer “butt”
first, muzzle elevated, fore end in the rear (action open) position and the safety in the “safe” position (red
band not showing). The armorer will take possession of the shotgun and immediately place the muzzle
into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers in the trigger guard. They then must:
   A6.5.1. Visually inspect the shotgun to ensure it contains no ammunition and is safe for storage.
   A6.5.2. Push the fore end to the forward (action closed) position, place the weapon on “fire” and
   dry-fire into the issue/turn-in barrel. After dry firing, the safety must be returned to the “safe” position
   (red band not showing).
   A6.5.3. The shotgun is now “rack safe;” the weapon is free of ammunition, the fore end is in the for-
   ward (action closed) position and the safety is on “safe”. Store the weapon in an approved storage
   rack or container.
22                                                                          AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


                                                Attachment 7

                                 M203 GRENADE LAUNCHER (40MM)

A7.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing an M203 grenade launcher.
The M203 is a 40mm grenade launcher attached to an M16 series rifle, or M4 carbine. Once mounted, the
grenade launcher and it’s host rifle or carbine are a dual-purpose weapon system commonly referred as
the M203. Because the weapon system consists of both rifle or carbine and grenade launcher, clearing and
handling must be inclusive of both rifle or carbine and grenade launcher procedures. NOTE: Future refer-
ences to the grenade launcher (GL) include the rifle or carbine with launcher attached and future refer-
ences to the “rifle” include the carbine.
     A7.1.1. Remove the GL from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing area
     in the “port-arms” position.
     A7.1.2. Place the muzzle in the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point and visually inspect the GL to ensure
     there is no magazine in the rifle and no ammunition present in the launcher. Do not place fingers into
     the trigger guards.
     A7.1.3. Pull the rifle’s charging handle to the rear while depressing the lower portion of the rifle bolt
     catch, and lock the bolt to the rear (open) position. Return the charging handle to the forward position.
     A7.1.4. Move the rifle’s selector lever to the “safe” position and visually inspect the chamber and
     receiver area to ensure no ammunition is present.
     A7.1.5. Depress the launcher’s barrel latch/pistol grip release and slide the barrel assembly to the for-
     ward (open) position and move the launcher’s safety to the “safe” position.
     A7.1.6. Visually inspect the launcher to ensure there is no ammunition present and it is safe for issue.
     A7.1.7. Hand the GL to the person arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, rifle bolt locked to the rear
     (open) position, grenade launcher barrel assembly forward (open) and safeties in the “safe” position.

A7.2. Loading. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the GL in the
“port-arms” position, rifle bolt locked to the rear, launcher barrel assembly in the forward (open) position,
and safeties in the “safe” position. He or she then must:
     A7.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
     of the rifle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guards.
     A7.2.2. Visually inspect the GL to ensure each safety is in the “safe” position, and there is no ammu-
     nition present in the rifle chamber and receiver area or launcher barrel. The clearing barrel attendant
     will verify the GL is safe to proceed.
     A7.2.3. Depress the rifle’s bolt release, allow the rifle bolt to move to the forward (closed) position,
     and close the rifle’s ejection port cover.
     A7.2.4. With the rifle’s selector lever in the “safe” position, press the trigger. If the rifle dry fires,
     return it to the issuing official immediately.
     A7.2.5. Pull the launcher’s barrel assembly to the rear (closed) position and lock it into place.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                     23


   A7.2.6. If a loaded magazine must be inserted into the rifle to meet an immediate duty requirement,
   the magazine should be inserted and locked into the magazine well at this time. If there is no immedi-
   ate need to load a magazine, the magazine may be inserted upon assumption of post. A round should
   not be chambered nor should the selector lever be moved to the “semi”, “auto”, or “burst” position
   unless hostilities are expected and the armed person must be able to return fire with minimal delay.
   A7.2.7. Personnel will sling the GL over one shoulder with the muzzle pointed either up or down.
   During inclement weather, the GL should be slung with the muzzle pointed down.

A7.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear their GL must approach
the clearing zone with GL in the “sling-arms” or “port-arms” position. They then must:
   A7.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and give the clearing
   barrel attendant the removed, loaded magazine. Unsling the GL and immediately place the muzzle of
   the rifle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guards. NOTE: The
   loaded magazine should have been removed from the rifle at the time the person was relieved from
   post or duty assignment. If this has not occurred, depress the magazine release and remove the maga-
   zine.
   A7.3.2. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the removal of the magazine and if it is safe to con-
   tinue with clearing procedures.
   A7.3.3. Visually inspect the rifle to ensure the selector lever is in the “safe” position, pull the charg-
   ing handle to the rear while depressing the lower portion of the bolt catch, and lock the bolt to the rear
   (open) position. Return the charging handle to the forward position.
   A7.3.4. Visually inspect the rifle’s chamber and receiver area to ensure there is no ammunition
   present. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the rifle contains no ammunition and is safe for
   turn-in.
   A7.3.5. Depress the launcher barrel latch/pistol grip release and slide the barrel assembly to the for-
   ward (open) position.
   A7.3.6. Ensure the launcher safety is in the “safe” position.
   A7.3.7. Rotate the GL 180 degrees and visually inspect the barrel of the launcher to ensure no ammu-
   nition is present. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the launcher contains no ammunition and is
   safe for turn-in.
   A7.3.8. Proceed to the firearms turn-in point upon direction of the clearing barrel attendant with the
   GL in the “port-arms” position, rifle bolt locked to the rear (open) position, launcher barrel in the for-
   ward (open) position, and safeties in the “safe” position.

A7.4. Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point and hand the GL to the armorer “butt” first,
muzzle elevated, rifle bolt locked to the rear (open) position, launcher barrel in the forward (open) posi-
tion and the safeties in the “safe” position. The armorer will take possession of the GL and immediately
place the muzzle of the rifle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger
guards. He or she then must:
   A7.4.1. Visually inspect the rifle’s chamber and receiver area to ensure no ammunition is present.
   A7.4.2. Depress the rifle’s bolt release and allow the bolt to move to the forward (closed) position.
24                                                                            AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A7.4.3. Place rifle’s selector lever in the “semi” position and pull the rifle trigger, dry firing into the
     issue/turn-in barrel. Close the ejection port cover.
     A7.4.4. Visually inspect the launcher to ensure it contains no ammunition.
     A7.4.5. Pull the launcher’s barrel assembly to the rear (closed) position, move the launcher’s safety
     to the “fire” position. Pull the launcher’s trigger, dry firing into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point.
     A7.4.6. The GL is now “rack safe;” the GL is free of ammunition, the rifle bolt is in the forward
     (closed) position, the launcher barrel assembly is in the rear (closed) position, the rifle’s selector lever
     is in the “semi” position and launcher safety is in the “fire” position. Store the weapon in an approved
     storage rack or container.
NOTE: The quadrant sight should be removed, or set according to the technical order to prevent damage.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                   25


                                              Attachment 8

                               M79 GRENADE LAUNCHER (40MM)

A8.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing an M79 grenade launcher:
   A8.1.1. Remove the M79 from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area in the “port-arms” position.
   A8.1.2. Place the muzzle in the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point and push the barrel-locking latch
   fully to the right and open the breech. Visually inspect the M79 to ensure is no ammunition present.
   Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A8.1.3. Place the safety selector in the “safe” (S) position (rearward). See Figure A8.1.
   A8.1.4. Hand the M79 to the person arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, breech open and safety in
   the “safe” (S) position.

A8.2. Loading. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the M79 in the
“port-arms” position, breech open and safety in the “safe” (S) position (rearward). They then must:
   A8.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A8.2.2. Visually inspect the M79 to ensure the safety is in the “safe” (S) position (rearward) and no
   ammunition is present in the launcher barrel. The clearing barrel attendant will verify it is safe to pro-
   ceed with the clearing or loading procedures.
   A8.2.3. Close the breech and sling the M79 over one shoulder with muzzle pointed either up or down.
   During inclement weather, carry the M79 with the muzzle pointed down.
   A8.2.4. Do not load the M79 except in preparation for firing in the line of duty.

A8.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear the M79 must approach
the clearing zone with the M79 in the “sling-arms” or “port-arms” position. They then must:
   A8.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, unsling the M79 and
   immediately place the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trig-
   ger guard.
   A8.3.2. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” (S) position (rearward).
   A8.3.3. Push the barrel-locking latch fully to the right and open the breech.
   A8.3.4. Visually inspect the M79 to ensure no ammunition is in the launcher barrel. The clearing bar-
   rel attendant must verify the M79 contains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
   A8.3.5. Proceed to the firearms turn-in point upon direction of the clearing barrel attendant with the
   M79 in the “port-arms” position, breech open, and safety in the “safe” (S) position (rearward).

A8.4. Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point and hand the M79 to the armorer “butt” first,
muzzle elevated, breech open and the safety in the “safe” (S) position (rearward). The armorer takes pos-
26                                                                        AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


session of the M79 and immediately places the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not
place fingers into the trigger guard. They then must:
     A8.4.1. Visually inspect the M79 to ensure no ammunition present in the launcher barrel.
     A8.4.2. Close the breech and ensure the barrel-locking latch moves to the center position.
     A8.4.3. Move the safety selector to the “fire” (F) position (forward). See Figure A8.1. Pull the trig-
     ger, dry firing into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point.
     A8.4.4. The M79 is now “rack safe;” the M79 is free of ammunition, the breech is closed and the
     safety selector is in the “fire” (F) position (forward). Store the M79 in an approved storage rack or
     container.

Figure A8.1. Safety Positions.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                  27


                                              Attachment 9

                                   M60 MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)

A9.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing a M60 machine gun (MG):
   A9.1.1. Remove the MG from its storage rack or container, and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area with the MG at “port-arms,” bolt in the forward (closed) position, and the safety in the “safe” (S)
   position.
   A9.1.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Place the safety in the “fire” posi-
   tion, pull and hold the cocking handle to the rear, locking the bolt to the rear (open) position. Return
   the safety to the “safe” position and return the cocking handle to the forward position. Do not place
   fingers in the trigger guard.
   A9.1.3. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, receiver and chamber to ensure there
   is no ammunition present.
   A9.1.4. Close the cover and hand the MG to the person arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, bolt in
   the rear (open) position and safety in the “safe” (S) position.

A9.2. Post-Issue Clearing. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the
MG in the “port-arms” position, muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt in the rear (open) position and safety
in the “safe” (S) position. They then must:
   A9.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point.
   A9.2.2. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” position then open the cover and visually inspect the cover,
   feed tray, chamber, magazine well and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present. The clearing bar-
   rel attendant verifies the MG is unloaded and it is safe to proceed.
   A9.2.3. Close the cover and place the safety to the “fire” (F) position.
   A9.2.4. With the right-hand, grasp the cocking handle and with the left-hand, pull the trigger. Allow
   the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position by “riding” the cocking handle forward. DO
   NOT ALLOW BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD. Move the safety to the “safe” (S) position.
   A9.2.5. Exit the clearing zone with the MG slung over the shoulder, slung cross-body or carried by
   the carrying handle.

A9.3. Loading. MAJCOMs determine when to load the M60 and in what configuration. Prescribe these
circumstances in a supplement to this manual, in contingency plans or in other appropriate documents as
determined by each MAJCOM. Prior to loading any weapon, the weapon must first be cleared. If the per-
son loading the MG is the same person who cleared it upon issue, the clearing process does not have to be
repeated. If the person loading the MG did not clear it, the clearing process must be accomplished IAW
para A9.2. When loading the MG, the machine gunner must:
   A9.3.1. Attach the ammunition bandoleer to the hanger assembly located on the left side of the MG.
   A9.3.2. Visually inspect the bandoleer to ensure all ammunition is within the bandoleer with the open
   side of the belt links pointed downward and no link on the first round of the belt.
28                                                                           AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A9.3.3. To half-load the machine gun, insert the ammunition belt into the feed tray opening.
        A9.3.3.1. Ensure the machine gun is clear and safety is in the “safe” (S) position. Push the ammu-
        nition belt into the feed tray opening until you hear or feel a click. The click indicates the engage-
        ment of the belt holding pawl and locking of the belt into place. Do not insert a belt of ammunition
        with a link on the first round. Move the safety to the “fire” (F) position.
        A9.3.3.2. If you do not hear or feel a click, gently pull on the belt. If the belt comes out of the feed
        tray opening, insert the belt again.
        A9.3.3.3. If you cannot insert the belt, visually inspect the belt to ensure the open side of the links
        point downward and are undamaged. Then clear the MG and attempt to insert the belt again.
        NOTE: To fire the MG from the half-load configuration, pull the cocking handle to the rear lock-
        ing the bolt to the rear. Return the cocking handle to its forward position, ensure the safety is in the
        “fire” (F) position and pull the trigger.
     A9.3.4. To full-load the MG, pull the cocking handle to the rear, and immediately push the handle
     forward and lock it into place.
        A9.3.4.1. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” (S) position.
        A9.3.4.2. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber, and receiver to
        ensure no ammunition is present.
        A9.3.4.3. Place the ammunition belt onto the feed tray, open side of the belt link pointing down-
        ward, with the first round of ammunition in line with the chamber.
        A9.3.4.4. Close the cover. The MG is now ready to fire. Do not move the safety to the “fire” (F)
        position until you must fire the weapon.

A9.4. On-Post Unloading and Clearing. If the M60 is in the half-load configuration, it can be trans-
ported safely in a vehicle and should only be unloaded on-post when the armed person is relieved from
post or duty location. If the M60 is in the full-load configuration, it is not safe for transport in a vehicle
and must be unloaded prior to transporting the MG for relief or breaks. It is the responsibility of the armed
person and the posting supervisor (or fire team leader) to verify the weapon contains no ammunition prior
to transport. Armed personnel must use the following procedures to unload the machine gun on-post:
     A9.4.1. Point the muzzle in a safe direction and ensure the safety is in the “safe” (S) position. Do not
     place fingers into the trigger guard or touch the cocking handle.
     A9.4.2. Open the cover, remove the ammunition belt, and place the belt back into the bandoleer.
     Remove the bandoleer from the hanger assembly.
     A9.4.3. Place the safety in the “fire” (F) position and lock the bolt to the rear (open) position. Do not
     place fingers into the trigger guard or remove hand from the cocking handle. NOTE: If the MG is in
     the full-load configuration, the bolt is already locked to the rear.
     A9.4.4. While holding the cocking handle, move the safety to the “safe” (S) position and lock the
     cocking handle to the forward position. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
     A9.4.5. Visually inspect the cover, feed tray, receiver and chamber to ensure no ammunition is
     present. Remove any ammunition found.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                   29


   A9.4.6. Close the cover and pull the cocking handle fully to the rear position. Do not place fingers
   into the trigger guard.
   A9.4.7. Move the safety to the “fire” (F) position, press the trigger, and allow the bolt to slowly move
   to the forward (closed) position by “riding” the cocking handle forward. DO NOT ALLOW BOLT
   TO SLAM FORWARD.
   A9.4.8. Move the safety to the “safe” (S) position. The M60 can now be safely transported; no
   ammunition is present, the cover is closed, the bolt is forward and the safety is in the “safe” position.

A9.5. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing for firearms turn-in must approach the
clearing zone with the MG slung over the shoulder, slung cross-body, or carried by the carrying handle.
They then must:
   A9.5.1. When directed by clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and immediately place the
   muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A9.5.2. Place the safety in the “fire” (F) position, pull the "cocking handle" to the rear, locking the
   bolt to the rear (open) position and push the cocking handle to the forward position.
   A9.5.3. Return the safety to the “safe” (S) position. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard or
   remove hand from the "cocking handle."
   A9.5.4. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, receiver and chamber to ensure no
   ammunition is present. The clearing barrel attendant must ensure the MG contains no ammunition and
   is safe for turn-in.
   A9.5.5. Close the cover and ensure the safety is in the “safe” position. Do not place fingers into the
   trigger guard.
   A9.5.6. Exit the clearing zone with the MG at “port-arms,” muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the
   rear (open) position and safety in the “safe” (S) position.

A9.6. Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point and hand the MG to the armorer “butt” first,
muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the rear position and safety in the “safe” position, and no fingers in
the trigger guard. The armorer will take possession of the firearm and immediately place the muzzle into
the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place finger in trigger guard.
   A9.6.1. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” (S) position, then open the cover and visually inspect the
   cover, feed tray, chamber, receiver and magazine well to ensure no ammunition is present and the MG
   is safe for storage.
   A9.6.2. Close the cover and place the safety in the “fire” (F) position.
   A9.6.3. With the right-hand, pull and hold the cocking handle to the rear, with the left-hand, pull the
   trigger. Allow the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position by “riding” the cocking handle
   forward. DO NOT ALLOW THE BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD. Place the safety in the “safe” (S)
   position.
   A9.6.4. The MG is now “rack safe;” the MG is free of ammunition, the cover is closed, the bolt is for-
   ward and the safety is in the “safe” (S) position. Store the MG is an approved storage rack or con-
   tainer.
30                                                                          AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


                                               Attachment 10

                                   M240B MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)

A10.1. General Information. The M240B is a medium machine gun (MG). It is belt-fed, gas-operated,
air-cooled, and fires from the open bolt position. The M240B can be fired from the bipod position, the tri-
pod mounted machine gun position, or from the pedestal or ring mount position. It has two barrel assem-
blies to extend the life of the barrels, retain accuracy and allow for continuous firing over long periods of
time. The M240B shares a unique characteristic with its cousin, the M249 AR. Both weapons are
designed so the safety stays on “fire” when the bolt is forward. Manipulating the weapon to achieve a
“safe” position when the bolt is forward can damage the weapon and may result in unintentional dis-
charges, or a runaway gun. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD THE SAFETY BE
ENGAGED WITH THE BOLT IN THE FORWARD POSITION.

A10.2. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing the M240B:
     A10.2.1. Remove the MG from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
     area at “port-arms,” bolt in the forward (closed) position and safety in the “fire” position (red band
     visible).
     A10.2.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Pull and hold the cocking handle
     to the rear, locking the bolt to the rear (open) position. Return the cocking handle to the forward posi-
     tion and place the safety to the “safe” position. Do not place finger in trigger guard.
     A10.2.3. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber and receiver to ensure no
     ammunition is present.
     A10.2.4. Close the cover and hand the MG to the person arming, butt first, muzzle elevated, bolt in
     the rear (open) position and safety in the “safe” position.

A10.3. Post-Issue Clearing. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the
MG in the “port-arms” position, muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the rear (open) position and the
safety in the “safe” position. They then must:
     A10.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
     into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place finger into the trigger guard.
     A10.3.2. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” position and open the cover. Visually inspect the cover,
     feed tray, chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present. The clearing barrel attendant ver-
     ifies the MG is unloaded and if it is safe to proceed.
     A10.3.3. Close the cover and place the safety to the “fire” position. Do not place fingers into the trig-
     ger guard.
     A10.3.4. With the right-hand, grasp the “cocking handle” and with the left-hand, pull the trigger.
     Allow the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position by “riding” the cocking handle for-
     ward. DO NOT ALLOW BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD.
     A10.3.5. The MG is now cleared; the cover is closed, the bolt is forward and the safety remains in the
     “fire” position.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                31


   A10.3.6. Exit the clearing zone with the MG slung over the shoulder, slung across body, or carried at
   port-arms.

A10.4. Loading. MAJCOMs determine when to load the M240B and in what configuration. Prescribe
these circumstances in a supplement to this manual, in contingency plans, or in other appropriate docu-
ments as determined by each MAJCOM.

A10.5. The Half-Load. Prior to loading any weapon, the weapon must first be cleared. If the person
loading the MG, is the same person who cleared the MG upon issue, the clearing process does not have to
be repeated. If the person loading the MG did not clear the MG, the clearing process must be accom-
plished IAW para A10.3. The half-load configuration starts with a cleared MG; bolt is forward with the
safety on “fire”.
   A10.5.1. Attach the ammunition assault pack to the ammunition adapter located on the left side of the
   weapon.
   A10.5.2. Visually inspect the bandoleer to ensure all ammunition is in the bandoleer with the open
   side of the belt links pointing downward.
   A10.5.3. Open the cover and place the ammunition belt onto the feed tray with the belt links open side
   pointing downward. Place the first round into the tray groove against the cartridge stop.
   A10.5.4. Close the cover. The MG is now half-loaded. The bolt is forward and the safety remains on
   “fire”. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD THE SAFETY BE ENGAGED WITH THE
   BOLT IN THE FORWARD POSITION.

A10.6. The Full-Load. The full load may be achieved by starting with a cleared MG or an MG in the
half-load configuration. The full load should only be used when hostilities are expected and the machine
gunner must be able to return fire with minimal delay.
   A10.6.1. From a Half-Load:
       A10.6.1.1. When transitioning to the full-load from the half-load, the machine gunner must pull
       and hold the cocking handle to the rear, locking the bolt to the rear (open) position. Return the
       cocking handle to the forward position and place the safety to the “safe” position. Leave the
       weapon on “safe” if the machine gunner does not need to fire right away.
       A10.6.1.2. The MG is now fully loaded. Ammunition is on the feed tray, the bolt is locked to the
       rear and the safety is on “safe”.
   A10.6.2. From a “Cleared Weapon”:
       A10.6.2.1. When full-loading a cleared weapon, you must ensure the weapon was cleared prop-
       erly. If the person loading the MG, is the same person who cleared the MG upon issue, the clearing
       process does not have to be repeated. If the person loading the MG did not clear the MG, the clear-
       ing process must be accomplished IAW para A10.3.
       A10.6.2.2. To achieve a full-load from a cleared MG, the machine gunner must attach the ammu-
       nition assault pack to the ammunition adapter located on the left side of the MG.
       A10.6.2.3. Visually inspect the bandoleer to ensure all ammunition is in the bandoleer with the
       open side of the belt links pointing downward.
32                                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


        A10.6.2.4. To load the MG, pull and hold the cocking handle to the rear, locking the bolt to the
        rear (open) position. Return the cocking handle to the forward position and place the safety to the
        “safe” position.
        A10.6.2.5. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber and receiver to
        ensure no ammunition or obstruction is present.
        A10.6.2.6. Place the ammunition belt onto the feed tray with the belt links open side pointing
        downward. Place the first round into the tray groove against the cartridge stop.
        A10.6.2.7. Close the cover. The MG is now fully loaded. Do not move the safety to the “fire”
        position until you must fire the MG.

A10.7. On-Post Unloading and Clearing. If the M240B is in the half-load configuration, it can be
transported safely in a vehicle and should only be unloaded on-post when the armed person is relieved
from post or duty location. If the M240B is in the full-load configuration, it is not safe for transport in a
vehicle and must be unloaded prior to transporting the MG for relief or breaks. It is the responsibility of
the machine gunner and the posting supervisor (or fire team leader) to verify the MG contains no ammu-
nition prior to transport.
     A10.7.1. When unloading an MG in the half-load configuration, personnel must use the following
     procedures when on-post:
        A10.7.1.1. Point the muzzle in a safe direction and open the cover.
        A10.7.1.2. Remove the ammunition belt, and place the belt back into the assault pack. Remove
        the ammunition assault pack from the ammunition adapter.
        A10.7.1.3. Close the cover. The MG can now be safely transported. No ammunition is present,
        the cover is closed, the bolt is forward and the safety remains in the “fire” position.
     A10.7.2. When unloading an MG in the full-load configuration, personnel must use the following
     procedures when on-post:
        A10.7.2.1. Point the muzzle in a safe direction, ensure the safety is on “safe”, and open the cover.
        A10.7.2.2. Remove the ammunition belt, and place the belt back into the assault pack. Remove
        the ammunition assault pack from the ammunition adapter.
        A10.7.2.3. Visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is
        present.
        A10.7.2.4. Close the cover and place the safety to the “fire” position. Do not place fingers into the
        trigger guard.
        A10.7.2.5. With the right-hand, grasp the cocking handle and with the left-hand, pull the trigger.
        Allow the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position by “riding” the cocking handle for-
        ward. DO NOT ALLOW BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD.
        A10.7.2.6. The MG can now be safely transported. No ammunition is present, the cover is closed,
        the bolt is forward and the safety remains in the “fire” position.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                  33


A10.8. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing for firearms turn-in must approach the
clearing area with the MG slung over the shoulder, slung cross-body or carried by the carrying handle.
The MG should be free of ammunition with the bolt forward and the safety on “fire”. They then must:
   A10.8.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and immediately
   place the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A10.8.2. When instructed to proceed by the clearing barrel attendant, pull the cocking handle to the
   rear and lock the bolt to the rear (open) position, and push the cocking handle to the forward position.
   A10.8.3. Place the safety to the “safe” position. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A10.8.4. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, receiver, and chamber to ensure no
   ammunition is present. The clearing barrel attendant must ensure the MG contains no ammunition and
   is safe for turn-in.
   A10.8.5. Close the cover and ensure the safety is in the “safe” position. Do not place fingers into the
   trigger guard.
   A10.8.6. Exit the clearing area with the MG at "port-arms," muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the
   rear (open) position and safety in the “safe” position.

A10.9. Turn-in. The person requesting firearms turn-in must approach the turn-in point and hand the
M240B to the armorer, butt first, muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the rear position, safety in the
“safe” position and no fingers in the trigger guard. The armorer will take possession of the MG and
immediately place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers in the trigger
guard.
   A10.9.1. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” position and open the cover. Visually inspect the cover,
   feed tray, chamber and receiver to ensure the MG contains no ammunition and is safe for storage.
   A10.9.2. Close the cover and place the safety in the “fire” position.
   A10.9.3. With the right-hand, pull and hold the cocking handle to the rear, with the left-hand, pull the
   trigger. Allow the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position by riding the cocking handle
   forward. DO NOT ALLOW THE BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD.
   A10.9.4. The MG is now “rack safe;” the MG is free of ammunition, the bolt is forward, the cover is
   closed and the safety remains on “fire”. Store the MG in an approved storage rack or container.
34                                                                          AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


                                               Attachment 11

                                 M249 AUTOMATIC RIFLE (5.56MM)

A11.1. General Information. The M249 Automatic Rifle (AR) is a lightweight machine gun. The M249
is belt-fed, gas-operated, air-cooled and fires from the open bolt position. It also has a 30-round magazine
feeding capability for emergency firing procedures. It can be fired from the shoulder or hand-held posi-
tion or the bipod position. It has two barrel assemblies to extend the life of the barrels, retain accuracy and
allow for continuous firing over long periods of time. The M249 AR shares a unique characteristic with
its cousin, the M240B. Both weapons are designed so the safety stays on “fire” when the bolt is forward.
Manipulating the weapon to achieve a “safe” position when the bolt is forward can damage the weapon
and may result in unintentional discharges, or a runaway gun. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES
SHOULD THE SAFETY BE ENGAGED WITH THE BOLT IN THE FORWARD POSITION.

A11.2. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing the AR:
     A11.2.1. Remove the AR from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
     area with the AR at “port-arms,” bolt in the forward (closed) position and safety in the “fire” position
     (red band visible).
     A11.2.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Pull and hold the cocking handle
     to the rear, locking the bolt to the rear (open) position. Return the cocking handle to the forward posi-
     tion and place the safety to the “safe” position. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
     A11.2.3. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber magazine well and
     receiver to ensure no ammunition is present.
     A11.2.4. Close the cover and hand the AR to the person arming, butt first, muzzle elevated, bolt in the
     rear (open) position, and safety in the “safe” position.

A11.3. Post-Issue Clearing. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the
AR in the “port-arms” position, muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the rear (open) position and the
safety in the “safe” position. Without placing fingers in the trigger guard, he or she then must:
     A11.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
     into the clearing barrel aiming point.
     A11.3.2. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” position and open the cover. Visually inspect the cover,
     feed tray, chamber, magazine well and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present. The clearing bar-
     rel attendant verifies the AR is unloaded and if it is safe to proceed.
     A11.3.3. Close the cover and place the safety to the “fire” position. Do not place fingers into the trig-
     ger guard.
     A11.3.4. With the right-hand, grasp the “cocking handle” and with the left-hand, pull the trigger.
     Allow the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position by “riding” the cocking handle for-
     ward. DO NOT ALLOW BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD.
     A11.3.5. The AR is now cleared. The cover is closed, the bolt is forward and the safety remains in the
     “fire” position.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                   35


   A11.3.6. Exit the clearing zone with the AR slung over the shoulder slung across body or carried at
   port-arms.

A11.4. Loading. MAJCOMs determine when to load the AR and in what configuration. Prescribe these
circumstances in a supplement to this manual, in contingency plans or in other appropriate documents as
determined by each MAJCOM.

A11.5. The Half-Load. Prior to loading any weapon, the weapon must first be cleared. If the person
loading the AR is the same person who cleared the AR upon issue, the clearing process does not have to
be repeated. If the person loading the AR did not clear the AR, the clearing process must be accomplished
IAW para A11.3. The half-load configuration starts with a cleared AR; cover closed, bolt is forward with
the safety on “fire”.
   A11.5.1. Attach the ammunition assault pack into the receiver dovetail located underneath the
   receiver.
   A11.5.2. Visually inspect the bandoleer to ensure all ammunition is in the bandoleer with the open
   side of the belt links pointing downward.
   A11.5.3. Open the cover and place the ammunition belt onto the feed tray with the belt links open side
   pointing downward. Place the first round on the feed tray groove against the cartridge stop. The
   lead-link tab (green plastic tab) assists in the correct positioning of the ammunition belt.
   A11.5.4. Close the cover. The AR is now half-loaded. The bolt is forward and the safety remains on
   “fire”. If the half-load is accomplished correctly, the lead-link tab is visible on the right side of the
   AR, flush against the ejection port. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD THE SAFETY
   BE ENGAGED WITH THE BOLT IN THE FORWARD POSITION.
   A11.5.5. The half-load can also be achieved with the 30-round, M16-style magazine. The bolt is for-
   ward, the safety is on “fire”, the cover is closed and the magazine is inserted into the magazine well.
   Although this is an alternative to carrying the AR with an assault pack attached, magazine-loaded ARs
   are more likely to malfunction. MAJCOMs may authorize this configuration when belted ammunition
   is not available or is not suitable for tactical operations.

A11.6. The Full-Load. The full-load may be achieved by starting with a cleared AR or an AR in the
half-load configuration. The full load should only be used when hostilities are expected and the armed
person must be able to return fire with minimal delay.
   A11.6.1. From a Half-Load:
       A11.6.1.1. When transitioning to the full-load from the half-load, pull and hold the cocking han-
       dle to the rear, locking the bolt to the rear (open) position. Return the cocking handle to the for-
       ward position and place the safety to the “safe” position. Leave the weapon on “safe” if the armed
       person does not need to fire right away.
       A11.6.1.2. The AR is now fully loaded. Ammunition is on the feed tray, the bolt is locked to the
       rear and the safety is on “safe”. If live fire engagement is required, place safety on “fire” and pull
       the trigger.
   A11.6.2. From a “Cleared Weapon”:
36                                                                          AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


        A11.6.2.1. When full-loading a cleared weapon, you must ensure the weapon was cleared prop-
        erly. If the person loading the AR, is the same person who cleared the AR upon issue, the clearing
        process does not have to be repeated. If the person loading the AR did not clear the AR, the clear-
        ing process must be accomplished IAW para A11.3.
        A11.6.2.2. To achieve a full-load from a cleared AR, attach the ammunition assault pack to the
        receiver dovetail underneath the receiver.
        A11.6.2.3. Visually inspect the bandoleer to ensure all ammunition is in the bandoleer with the
        open side of the belt links pointing downward.
        A11.6.2.4. To load the AR, pull and hold the cocking handle to the rear, locking the bolt to the
        rear (open) position. Return the cocking handle to the forward position and place the safety to the
        “safe” position.
        A11.6.2.5. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber, receiver and maga-
        zine well (insert two fingers) to ensure no ammunition or obstruction is present.
        A11.6.2.6. Place the ammunition belt onto the feed tray with the belt links open side pointing
        downward. Place the lead link tab or first round into the tray groove against the cartridge stop.
        A11.6.2.7. Close the cover. The AR is now fully loaded. Do not move the safety to the “fire”
        position until you must fire the AR.
     A11.6.3. The full-load can also be achieved with the 30-round, M16-style magazine. The bolt is rear-
     ward, the safety is on “fire”, the cover is closed and the magazine is inserted into the magazine well.
     Although this is an alternative to carrying the AR with an assault pack attached, magazine-loaded ARs
     are more likely to malfunction. MAJCOMs may authorize this configuration when belted ammunition
     is not available or is not suitable for tactical operations.

A11.7. On-Post Unloading and Clearing. If the M249 is in the half-load configuration, it can be trans-
ported safely in a vehicle and should only be unloaded on-post when the armed person is relieved from
post or duty location. If the M249 is in the full-load configuration, it is not safe for transport in a vehicle
and must be unloaded or placed in the half-load configuration prior to transporting the AR. It is the
responsibility of the armed person and the posting supervisor (or fire team leader) to verify the AR con-
tains no ammunition or is in the half-load configuration prior to transport.
     A11.7.1. When unloading an AR in the half-load configuration, personnel must use the following
     procedures when on-post:
        A11.7.1.1. Point the muzzle in a safe direction and open the cover.
        A11.7.1.2. Remove the ammunition belt, and place the belt back into the assault pack. Remove
        the ammunition assault pack from the hanger assembly.
        A11.7.1.3. Close the cover. The AR can now be safely transported. The cover is closed, the bolt
        is forward and the safety remains in the “fire” position.
        A11.7.1.4. If the AR is in the half-load configuration with the 30-round magazine, simply remove
        the magazine. The cover should remain closed with the bolt forward and the safety in the “fire”
        position.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                      37


   A11.7.2. When unloading an AR in the full-load configuration, personnel must use the following pro-
   cedures when on-post:
       A11.7.2.1. Point the muzzle in a safe direction, ensure the safety is on “safe”. Do not place finger
       in the trigger guard or touch the cocking handle.
       A11.7.2.2. Open the cover, remove the ammunition belt, and place the belt back into the assault
       pack. Remove the ammunition assault pack from AR (remove the magazine if present).
       A11.7.2.3. Visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber, receiver and magazine well (insert two
       fingers) to ensure no ammunition is present.
       A11.7.2.4. Close the cover and pull the cocking handle fully to the rear position and hold to the
       rear. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
       A11.7.2.5. Place the safety to the “fire” position. While holding the cocking handle rearward,
       with the left-hand, pull the trigger. Allow the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position
       by “riding” the cocking handle forward. DO NOT ALLOW BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD.
       A11.7.2.6. The AR can now be safely transported. No ammunition is present, the cover is closed,
       the bolt is forward and the safety remains in the “fire” position.

A11.8. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing for firearms turn-in must approach the
clearing zone with the AR slung over the shoulder, slung cross-body or carried by the carrying handle.
The AR should be free of ammunition with the bolt forward and the safety on “fire”. They then must:
   A11.8.1. When directed by the clearing barrel official, enter the clearing zone and immediately place
   the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A11.8.2. When instructed to proceed by the clearing barrel attendant, pull the cocking handle to the
   rear and lock the bolt to the rear (open) position and push the cocking handle to the forward position.
   A11.8.3. Place the safety to the “safe” position. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A11.8.4. Open the cover and visually inspect the cover, feed tray, chamber, receiver and magazine
   well (insert two fingers) to ensure no ammunition is present. The clearing barrel attendant must ensure
   the AR contains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
   A11.8.5. Close the cover and ensure the safety is in the “safe” position. Do not place fingers into the
   trigger guard.
   A11.8.6. Exit the clearing zone with the AR at “port-arms,” muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the
   rear (open) position and safety in the “safe” position. (Left side flush, red band not showing).

A11.9. Turn-in. The person requesting firearms turn-in must approach the turn-in point and hand the AR
to the armorer, butt first, muzzle elevated, cover closed, bolt to the rear position, safety in the “safe” posi-
tion and no fingers in the trigger guard. The armorer will take possession of the AR and immediately place
the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place finger in trigger guard.
   A11.9.1. Ensure the safety is in the “safe” position, then open the cover and visually inspect the
   cover, feed tray, chamber, receiver and magazine well (insert two fingers) to ensure the AR contains
   no ammunition and is safe for storage.
   A11.9.2. Close the cover and place the safety in the “fire” position.
38                                                                      AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A11.9.3. With the right-hand, grasp the “cocking handle” and pull rearward. With the left-hand, pull
     the trigger. Allow the bolt to slowly move to the forward (closed) position by “riding” the cocking
     handle forward. DO NOT ALLOW THE BOLT TO SLAM FORWARD.
     A11.9.4. The AR is now “rack safe;” the weapon is free of ammunition; the bolt is forward, the cover
     is closed and the safety remains on “fire”. Store the AR in an approved storage rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                  39


                                             Attachment 12

                        M24 SNIPER WEAPON SYSTEM RIFLE (7.62MM)

A12.1. General Information. The M24 Sniper Weapon System (SWS) rifle is a 7.62mm, bolt-action,
6-shot repeating rifle. The Air Force employs this weapon system in the “Close Precision Engagement”
program. The SWS is assigned to an Air Force Sharpshooter. The entire system consists of the rifle,
optics, cleaning kit, cases, operator’s manual and other MAJCOM-directed support equipment. Sharp-
shooters must attend and pass the Air Force Close Precision Engagement course before assuming sharp-
shooter operational status and being assigned an M24 SWS rifle.

A12.2. Storage. The M24 SWS rifle must be stored in a sealed or locked case. If the case is sealed, the
seal will be a railroad-type, numbered seal. SF commanders will determine who is authorized to remove
and replace seals and under what circumstances. If the case is locked, SFS Commanders must determine
key control procedures.
   A12.2.1. Prior to placing the M24 in its storage case, the weapon must be cleared and the bolt
   removed. The bolt will be stored in the M24 case.
   A12.2.2. Access to the M24 must be strictly controlled. Once the AF Sharpshooter has sighted and
   zeroed the weapon, they should be the only individuals handling the weapon for training and opera-
   tional use.

A12.3. Ammunition: The M24 can fire long-range ball, ball/tracer and armor piercing (AP) ammuni-
tion. Long-range ammunition is produced to stringent tolerances to ensure superior accuracy. AP ammu-
nition enables sharpshooters to penetrate hard cover, such as urban terrain and light armor. With the AP
(black tip) round, Sharpshooters can penetrate 20mm of hardened steel at 100 meters.
   A12.3.1. Ammunition may be stored in the sealed or locked case with the M24 SWS to accommodate
   quick response.
   A12.3.2. If ammunition is stored in the M24 case, an armorer will verify type and amount prior to the
   case being locked or sealed. To accommodate accountability, ammunition amount and type should be
   annotated on the seal log.

A12.4. Issue. Unit Operating Instructions will dictate circumstances for issue. The M24 will be issued in
its case to an Air Force Sharpshooter to expedite response.

A12.5. Loading/Unloading. Loading and unloading the M24 will be determined by circumstances. Unit
Operating Instructions must identify who is authorized to give loading and unloading instructions or
orders to the Sharpshooter. The M24 must be unloaded and cleared by the Sharpshooter and verified by
another trained person, prior to being packed in its case for turn-in.

A12.6. Clearing. The Sharpshooter may need to clear the M24 in the field without a clearing barrel. If
this is the case, care should be taken to ensure the weapon is pointed in a safe direction prior to proceed-
ing. If a clearing barrel is available, the Sharpshooter will approach the clearing zone with the weapon at
port or sling arms. They then must:
40                                                                           AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A12.6.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and immediately
     place the firearm’s muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger
     guard.
     A12.6.2. When directed to proceed by the clearing barrel attendant, place the weapon on “safe” if it
     is not already. If the weapon has been fired, it will not go on “safe” unless it has been manually
     cycled. If the weapon does not go on “safe”, perform the following steps with extra caution:
        A12.6.2.1. Lift the bolt handle, rotating the bolt to the left, and pull the bolt to the rear.
        A12.6.2.2. If a round is in the chamber, it will eject when the bolt is pulled to the rear. Capture the
        round and hand it to the clearing barrel attendant.
        A12.6.2.3. If the weapon could not be placed on “safe” before now, place the weapon on “safe”
        at this time.
        A12.6.2.4. Visually inspect the chamber to ensure it is clear (no ammunition present).
        A12.6.2.5. Visually inspect the magazine well to ensure it is clear (no ammunition present). If
        rounds are present, press the floorplate latch and drop rounds out of the magazine. Capture all
        rounds and hand them to the clearing barrel attendant.
        A12.6.2.6. Close the floorplate.
        A12.6.2.7. Push the bolt stop release. As you are pushing the bolt stop release, slide the bolt
        assembly to the rear and remove it from the weapon. Hand the bolt assembly to the clearing barrel
        attendant.
     A12.6.3. The weapon is now clear and safe. The weapon and bolt assembly will be packed in the case
     and the case sealed or locked prior to turn-in.

A12.7. Turn-in. The M24 will be turned into the armory, in its case. If the case is sealed rather than
locked, the armorer will issue a new seal to the Sharpshooter and record the new seal number on the seal
log.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                     41


                                              Attachment 13

                                         M14 RIFLE (7.62MM)

A13.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing the M14 rifle:
   A13.1.1. Remove the rifle from the storage rack and proceed to the issue-point clearing area with the
   rifle in the “port arms” position, bolt in the forward (closed) position, and the safety in the “fire” (for-
   ward) position.
   A13.1.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point and lock the bolt into the rear
   (open) position. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A13.1.3. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition or magazine is present.
   A13.1.4. Place the safety in the “safe” (rear) position.
   A13.1.5. Hand the rifle to the person assigned to perform honor guard duties “butt” first, muzzle ele-
   vated, bolt in the rear (open) position, and safety in the “safe” (rear) position.

A13.2. Post-Issue Clearing. Honor Guard personnel must immediately proceed to the clearing zone
with the rifle in the “port-arms” position, bolt in the rear (open) position, and safety in the “safe” (rear)
position. Then:
   A13.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A13.2.2. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition or magazine is present.
   The clearing barrel attendant will verify the rifle is clear and safe.
   A13.2.3. Allow the bolt to move to the forward (closed) position.
   A13.2.4. Place the rifle at the “port-arms” position and exit the clearing zone upon direction of the
   clearing barrel attendant. NOTE: The weapon is transported with bolt forward, no ammunition and
   safety on “safe”.

A13.3. Loading. Do not load the rifle until just prior to the ceremony start time. To load the rifle you:
   A13.3.1. Visually inspect the rifle to ensure the safety is in the “safe” (rear) position.
   A13.3.2. Lock the bolt to the rear (open) position and inspect the chamber to ensure it is clear.
   A13.3.3. Release the bolt and allow it to move to the forward (closed) position.
   A13.3.4. Insert the loaded blank ammunition magazine and place the safety on the “fire” position
   when ready to fire in the ceremony. Warning: Do not fire blank ammunition directly toward person-
   nel. NOTE: Upon completion of the ceremony, clear the weapon, allow the bolt to go forward and
   place on “safe” to transport the weapon.

A13.4. Unloading and Clearing. Honor Guard personnel, preparing to unload and clear their firearms,
must approach the clearing zone with their rifle in the “port arms” position. They then must:
   A13.4.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and immediately
   place the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
42                                                                            AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A13.4.2. Visually inspect the rifle to ensure the safety is in the “safe” (rear) position (to the rear, with
     safety protruding into the trigger guard). The clearing barrel attendant will verify the rifle is clear and
     safe.
     A13.4.3. Lock the bolt to the rear (open) position and visually inspect the chamber and receiver to
     ensure no ammunition or magazine is present. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the rifle con-
     tains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
     A13.4.4. Exit the clearing zone with the rifle in the “port-arms” position, bolt in the rear (open) posi-
     tion, and safety in the “safe” position.

A13.5. Turn-in. The person requesting firearms turn-in must approach the turn-in point, and hand the
rifle to the armorer “butt” first, muzzle elevated, bolt locked in the rear (open) position, and safety in the
“safe” (rear) position. The armorer will take possession of the rifle and immediately place its muzzle into
the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard. He or she then must:
     A13.5.1. Visually inspect the rifle to ensure it contains no ammunition and is safe for storage.
     A13.5.2. Release the bolt and allow it to move to the forward (closed) position.
     A13.5.3. Place the safety in the “fire” (forward) position and press the trigger, dry firing the rifle into
     the issue/turn-in barrel.
     A13.5.4. The rifle is now “rack safe.” Store the weapon in an approved storage rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                  43


                                             Attachment 14

                                      M15 REVOLVER (.38 CAL)

A14.1. Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing an M15 revolver:
   A14.1.1. Remove the revolver from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clear-
   ing area with the revolver barrel pointed up and cylinder closed.
   A14.1.2. With the hammer down, open the cylinder and visually verify the revolver contains no
   ammunition and is safe to issue.
   A14.1.3. Hand the revolver to the person arming "butt" first, muzzle elevated, and cylinder open. Do
   not place fingers into the trigger guard.

A14.2. Loading. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the revolver
barrel pointed up, and the middle two fingers of the left-hand placed through the revolver's frame, and the
cylinder held opened by the thumb. He or she then must:
NOTE: When the M15 is being drawn for Military Working Dog blank-fire training, the weapon may be
loaded in the training area. Keep the weapon pointed in a safe direction and do not fire directly toward any
personnel with blank rounds.
   A14.2.1. Upon the direction of clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A14.2.2. With the revolver's cylinder open, keeping the middle two fingers of the left-hand through
   the frame to support the revolver, insert the ammunition one round at a time into the cylinder using the
   right-hand while rotating the cylinder with the thumb and middle finger of the left-hand.
   A14.2.3. After loading is complete, close the cylinder, holster the revolver, and secure the holster
   strap across the back of the hammer.
   A14.2.4. Exit the clearing zone upon the direction of the clearing barrel attendant.
   A14.2.5. Do not remove the weapon from the holster except in the line of duty or when clearing it for
   turn-in.

A14.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear their firearms must
approach the clearing zone with their revolver holstered. They then must:
   A14.3.1. Upon the direction of the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, unfasten the hol-
   ster strap, unholster the revolver, and immediately place the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming
   point. Do not place finger(s) on the trigger or into the trigger guard.
   A14.3.2. Open the cylinder, place the middle two fingers of the left-hand through the frame to support
   the revolver, slightly elevate the muzzle, press the extractor rod, and remove all ammunition.
   A14.3.3. After the clearing barrel attendant verifies the revolver contains no ammunition and is safe
   for turn-in, proceed to the turn-in point, middle two fingers of the left-hand inserted through the
   frame, the cylinder held open by the thumb, and the muzzle elevated.
44                                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


A14.4. Turn-in. The armed person requesting firearms turn-in must approach the turn-in point and hand
the revolver to the armorer "butt" first and muzzle elevated. Do not place fingers on the trigger or into the
trigger guard. The armorer will take possession of the revolver and immediately place the muzzle into the
turn-in point clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard. The armorer then
must:
     A14.4.1. Visually inspect the revolver to ensure it contains no ammunition, is safe for storage, and
     closes the cylinder.
     A14.4.2. With the revolver barrel pointed up and cylinder closed, store the revolver in an approved
     storage rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                      45


                                               Attachment 15

                                             UZI SMG (9MM)

A15.1. Issue. The safety selector on the Uzi submachine gun (SMG) can either be placed on “S”, “R”, or
“A”. The “S”, of course, stands for “safe”, the “R” stands for “repeat” and the “A” stands for “auto”. The
repeat mode is a semi-automatic mode and will be referred to as “semi-automatic” throughout this attach-
ment. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing the SMG:
   A15.1.1. Remove the SMG from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area with the firearm at “port-arms,” bolt in the forward (closed) position, and fire selector in the
   “safe” (S) position.
   A15.1.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point and visually inspect the SMG to
   ensure there is no magazine in the weapon and the fire selector is in the “safe” (S) position. Do not
   place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A15.1.3. Depress the grip safety by firmly grasping the pistol grip. Pull the bolt-retracting knob fully
   to the rear, locking the bolt to the rear (open) position.
   A15.1.4. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present.
   A15.1.5. Hand the SMG to the person arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, bolt in the rear (open)
   position, and fire selector in the “safe” (S) position. Do not place fingers on the trigger or into the trig-
   ger guard during issue.

A15.2. Loading. The person arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the SMG at
“port-arms,” bolt in the rear (open) position, and fire selector in the “safe” (S) position. They then must:
   A15.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
   A15.2.2. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present, and there is
   no magazine inserted. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the SMG contains no ammunition and
   if it is safe to proceed.
   A15.2.3. Holding the SMG in the right hand, place the fire selector in the “semi-automatic” (R) posi-
   tion and depress the grip safety by firmly grasping the pistol grip.
   A15.2.4. Grasp the bolt-retracting knob, press the trigger and allow the bolt to move to the forward
   (closed) position, while riding the retracting knob forward. DO NOT ALLOW THE BOLT TO
   SLAM FORWARD.
   A15.2.5. Ensure the clearing barrel attendant verifies it is safe to proceed.
   A15.2.6. Exit the clearing zone with the SMG slung over one shoulder or in an authorized carrying
   case. MAJCOMs, the Air Staff functional managers, or HQ AFOSI must specify when to insert a
   loaded magazine into the weapon.

A15.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear their firearms must
approach the clearing zone with their SMG in the “sling-arms” position or in an authorized carrying case.
They then must:
46                                                                          AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A15.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, unsling (remove
     from carrying case) the submachine gun, and immediately place the muzzle into the clearing barrel
     aiming point. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.
     A15.3.2. Ensure the fire selector is in the “safe” (S) position and there is no magazine in the weapon.
     If a magazine is in the submachine gun, remove it at this time. The clearing barrel attendant verifies if
     it is safe to proceed.
     A15.3.3. Depress the grip safety by firmly grasping the pistol grip, pull the bolt-retracting knob fully
     to the rear and lock the bolt to the rear (open) position.
     A15.3.4. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present. The clearing
     barrel attendant must verify the SMG contains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
     A15.3.5. Exit the clearing zone with the SMG in the “port-arms” position, bolt locked in the rear
     (open) position, and fire selector in the “safe” (S) position.

A15.4. Turn-in. The person requesting firearms turn-in must approach the turn-in point and hand the
SMG to the armorer “butt” first, muzzle elevated, bolt locked in the rear (open) position and fire selector
in the “safe” (S) position. The armorer will take possession of the SMG and immediately place its muzzle
into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Without placing fingers into the trigger guard, they then must:
     A15.4.1. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no magazine is inserted, no ammunition
     is present and the weapon is safe for storage.
     A15.4.2. With the muzzle in the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point, place the fire selector in the “semi-
     automatic” (R) position, depress the grip safety by firmly grasping the pistol grip, and press the trig-
     ger. The bolt will automatically move to the forward (closed) position, dry firing the submachine gun.
     Place the fire selector in the “safe” (S) position.
     A15.4.3. The weapon is now “rack safe;” the weapon is free of ammunition, the bolt is forward
     (closed), and the fire selector is in the “safe” (S) position. Store the weapon in an approved storage
     rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004                                                                                   47


                                              Attachment 16

                         HECKLER AND KOCH (H&K) MP5 SMG (9MM)

A16.1. Issue. The safety selector on the MP5 submachine gun (SMG) can either be placed on “S”, “E”,
or “F”. The letters represent German words. The “S” stands for “safe”, the “E” stands for “semi-auto-
matic” and the “F” stands for “auto”. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing the
SMG:
   A16.1.1. Remove the SMG from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-point clearing
   area at “port-arms,” bolt in the forward (closed) position, and selector lever in the “safe” (S) position.
   A16.1.2. Place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point and visually inspect the weapon
   to ensure there is no magazine inserted and the selector lever is in the “safe” (S) position. Do not place
   fingers into the trigger guard.
   A16.1.3. Pull cocking handle rearward and up to lock the bolt to rear (open) position.
   A16.1.4. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present.
   A16.1.5. Hand the SMG to the individual arming “butt” first, muzzle elevated, bolt in the rear (open)
   position, and selector lever in the “safe” (S) position. Do not place fingers on the trigger or into the
   trigger guard during issue.

A16.2. Loading. The individual arming must immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the SMG at
“port-arms,” bolt in the rear (open) position, and selector lever in the “safe” (S) position. Without placing
fingers in the trigger guard, they then must:
   A16.2.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and place the muzzle
   into the clearing barrel aiming point.
   A16.2.2. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present and there is
   no magazine inserted. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the SMG contains no ammunition and
   if it is safe to proceed.
   A16.2.3. Insert and lock a fully loaded magazine into the SMG, slap the cocking handle downward
   allowing the bolt to move forward to the closed position. NOTE: When completed, a round of ammu-
   nition is present in the chamber.
   A16.2.4. Ensure the selector lever is in the “safe” (S) position.
   A16.2.5. The clearing barrel attendant must verify the SMG is safe to proceed.
   A16.2.6. Exit the clearing zone with the SMG slung over one shoulder or in an authorized carrying
   case.

A16.3. Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel preparing to unload and clear the SMG must
approach the clearing zone with the SMG at “sling-arms,” “port arms,” or in an authorized carrying case.
They then must:
   A16.3.1. When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone, unsling the SMG or
   remove the SMG from its carrying case and immediately place the muzzle into the clearing barrel
   aiming point.
48                                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MAY 2004


     A16.3.2. Place the selector lever to the “safe” (S) position and push the magazine release lever and
     remove the magazine. Hand the magazine to the clearing barrel attendant. The clearing barrel atten-
     dant must verify if it is safe to proceed.
     A16.3.3. Grasp the cocking handle and pull it to the rear and upward position locking the bolt to the
     rear (open) position. This action will cause a round to be ejected. Allow the ejected round to fall into
     the rubber matted tray directly in front and underneath the aiming point of the clearing barrel.
     A16.3.4. Hand the ejected round to the clearing barrel attendant. The clearing barrel attendant will
     place the ejected round of ammunition back into the magazine.
     A16.3.5. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no ammunition is present. The clearing
     barrel attendant must verify the SMG contains no ammunition and is safe for turn-in.
     A16.3.6. Exit the clearing area with the SMG in the “port-arms” position, bolt locked in the rear
     (open) position and selector lever in the “safe” (S) position.

A16.4. Turn-in. The individual requesting firearms turn-in must approach the turn-in point, and hand the
SMG to the armorer “butt” first, muzzle elevated, bolt locked in the rear (open) position and selector lever
in the “safe” (S) position. The armorer will take possession of the SMG and immediately place its muzzle
into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point. Without placing fingers in the trigger guard, he or she then
must:
     A16.4.1. Visually inspect the chamber and receiver to ensure no magazine is inserted, no ammunition
     is present and the weapon is safe for storage.
     A16.4.2. With the muzzle still in the issue/turn-in barrel aiming point, push the cocking handle down
     fully allowing the bolt to move to the forward (closed) position.
     A16.4.3. Place the selector lever in the “semiautomatic” (E) position and dry fire the SMG into the
     issue/turn-in barrel.
     A16.4.4. Place the selector lever in the “safe” (S) position. The weapon is now “rack safe;” no
     ammunition is present, the bolt is in the forward (closed) position and selector lever is in the “safe”
     (S) position. Store the weapon in an approved storage rack or container.
