BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE MANUAL 31-116
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     9 MAY 2012

                                                                                         Security

                                                              AIR FORCE MOTOR VEHICLE
                                                                   TRAFFIC SUPERVISION



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFSFC/SFOP                                                             Certified by: AF/A7S
                                                                              (Mr. John Fedrigo)
Supersedes:    AFI 31-204, 14 July 2000                                                 Pages: 15


This manual implements AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, sets forth AF guidance related to the
Interservice publication AFI 31-218 (I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, and provides
additional Air Force specific guidance. It assigns responsibilities and establishes procedures for
motor vehicle traffic supervision on Air Force installations in the continental United States
(CONUS) and overseas (OCONUS) areas. This includes, but is not limited to, granting,
suspending, or revoking the privilege to operate a privately owned vehicle (POV); registration of
POVs; administration of vehicle registration and driver performance records; driver
improvement programs; police traffic supervision; and off-installation traffic activities. This
instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974 authorized by 50 United States Code 797. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level.
This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10 United States Code, Section 8013, and DoD
Directive 7730.47, Defense Incident-Based Reporting System (DIBRS). The applicable Privacy
Act SORN(s) F031 AF SF B, Security Forces Management Information Service, is available at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. Records Disposition: Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This manual
incorporates extensive changes from AFI 31-204 which it replaces and must be thoroughly
reviewed by the reader. Among other things, this manual: incorporates current terminology and
standards related to testing for the presence of alcohol and drugs used by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration; describes the processes to be used in the collection of evidence
and action on traffic reports; includes guidance on matters ranging from registration of vehicles
to establishment of base traffic management programs; and sets minimum traffic enforcement
goals for Defense Force commanders
AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012                                                                          3



                                           Chapter 1

                                      INTRODUCTION

1.1. Program Management. This manual implements policy, assigns responsibility and
establishes procedures for motor vehicle traffic supervision on Air Force installations located in
the continental United States (CONUS), outside the continental United States (OCONUS), and
deployed locations, where implemented. This AFMAN provides additional Air Force specific
guidance to complement guidance found in AFI 31-218 (I). The objective of traffic control
programs is the safe and efficient flow of vehicles and pedestrians through reduction of factors
contributing to accidents.
1.2. Responsibilities. Installation Defense Force Commander (DFC). The DFC is the
Installation Commander's principal advisor on issues pertaining to the lawful movement of
personnel and traffic. The DFC exercises staff responsibility for directing, regulating and
controlling traffic, and enforcing installation rules pertaining to traffic control. DFCs assist
traffic engineers by performing traffic control studies to gather information on traffic problems
and use patterns.
1.3. Delegation of Authority. Installation commanders may delegate their responsibilities
under this manual to their vice commanders, mission support commanders or other group
commanders as appropriate and provided the individual does not occupy a position such as law
enforcement which would constitute a conflict of interest. Commanders should coordinate letters
of delegation through their SJAs.
 4                                                                  AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012


                                            Chapter 2

                                    DRIVING PRIVILEGES

2.1. Requirements for Driving Privileges. Each Installation Commander will determine if
international driver’s licenses will be recognized and authorized for use on the installation. Take
into consideration the local (civilian) jurisdiction’s policy on recognition and acceptance of
international driver’s licenses. As a general rule, most CONUS civilian jurisdictions will honor
use of international driver’s licenses for short periods of time by non-resident visitors and
assigned military personnel and dependents. When practical, Installation Commanders should
incorporate local guidance to prevent conflicts and confusion.
2.2. Stopping and Inspecting Personnel or Vehicles.
     2.2.1. AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, and AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism, require Installation
     Commanders to develop instructions and guidance that detail stop, inspection, search and
     impoundment of motor vehicles at CONUS installation entry gates, to include Air Force
     restricted and controlled areas.
     2.2.2. MAJCOMs responsible for overseas military installations must provide their
     Installation Commanders with written guidelines governing stop, inspection, search and
     impoundment of vehicles. This guidance must reflect host nation agreements and pass
     appropriate legal review. Note: A combatant commander or those commanding unified forces
     may direct guidance covering all installations under their command. In this case, MAJCOMs
     must review those policies before issuing their guidance.
2.3. Implied Consent to Blood, Breath or Urine Tests. This requirement must be outlined as
part of installation newcomers briefings and/or inprocessing of newly assigned personnel. Refer
to AFI 31-218 (I) for specific information.
2.4. Implied Consent to Vehicle Impoundment. In addition to those conditions for
impoundment listed in AFI 31-218(I), paragraph 2-3, local situations may arise that require
impoundment. The determination will be made by the Installation Commander or designee.
Installation and unit commanders must view the abandonment of personal property as a
personnel management issue and be diligent in deterring occurrences. Commanders must include
the consequences when personal property is abandoned during familiarization and indoctrination
training into units. Additionally, measures must be established to ensure personal effects are
cleared prior to personnel departing on permanent change-of-station orders.
2.5. Suspension or Revocation of Driving Privileges. Installation Commanders must
incorporate procedures governing suspension and revocation in base publications or as a
supplement to this instruction. Make these known to the base population. AF will follow the
administrative due process for suspensions detailed in AFI 31-218(I).
     2.5.1. Suspensions.
        2.5.1.1. Installation Commanders determine suspension and revocation guidance for non-
        moving violations, as well as what constitutes a non-moving violation on their
        installation (i.e., performing unauthorized repair; failure to register and insure vehicles;
        unauthorized modifications or alterations; failure to maintain safety standards, etc).
AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012                                                                           5


       Make these standards part of the local installation traffic code and take reasonable steps
       to make them known to the general public.
       2.5.1.2. Persons under the age of 21, when in the United States or where legal alcohol
       consumption age is 21, operating a motor vehicle with a BAC or BrAC level standard of
       .01 or higher is reason for automatic suspension. Refer to AFI 31-218(I) 2-
       4.a.(3).(a).(b).(c).(d). for additional guidance.
       2.5.1.3. The .08 blood alcohol limit for presumptive intoxication determination may be
       reduced to reflect a more stringent local, state or host nation standard.
   2.5.2. Revocation.
       2.5.2.1. The Installation Commander will immediately revoke driving privileges for a
       period of not less than 1 year when a serious incident involving a motor vehicle occurs
       and the Installation Commander determines immediate revocation of driving privileges is
       required to preserve public safety or the good order and discipline of military personnel.
       2.5.2.2. The DFC develops plans and procedures to forward revocation, suspension and
       driving records to gaining commanders and to initiate appropriate staff action when
       receiving similar records from losing commanders of inbound personnel.
       2.5.2.3. Installation Commanders may impose multiple suspensions to run consecutively
       or concurrently.
2.6. Alcohol and Drug Abuse Programs. After coordination with the SJA, unit commanders
will direct drug and/or alcohol testing within 24 hours of suspected alcohol related motor
vehicle/traffic incidents or misconduct, episodes of aberrant or bizarre behavior or where there is
reasonable suspicion of drug use and the member refuses to provide consent for testing.
Commanders are also encouraged to ensure Blood Alcohol Tests (BAT) are taken as soon after
the incident as possible to determine the level and intensity of alcohol involvement. For
additional information refer to AFI 31-218(I).
 6                                                                 AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012


                                            Chapter 3

           PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLE OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

3.1. General. The Installation Commander will identify requirements to operate a motor
vehicle on the installation.
3.2. Motorcycles, Motor Scooters and Mopeds. See AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic
Safety Program, for requirements to operate motorcycles, motor scooters and mopeds on AF
installations. Refer to AFI 91-207, para 4.6., for motorcycle training requirements.
3.3. AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass. The Security Forces Management Information System
(SFMIS), the Defense Biometric Identification System (DBIDS) generated vehicle/visitor passes
or the AF Form 75 are methods to control and identify personnel and vehicles on a temporary
basis. Specific procedures can be found in AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and
Procedures, and AFI 31-113, Installation Perimeter Access Control, when implemented.
3.4. Handicapped Person Identification. Honor local and state-issued handicap decals,
placards, signs, etc, on all Air Force installations. Upon request from a medical practitioner,
Installation Commanders may authorize issue of a locally devised card or form in OCONUS or
deployed locations where decals are not issued. Locally devised decals will contain an issue and
expiration date and be issued and displayed per local procedures.
3.5. Vehicle Registration at non Air Force Installations. Personnel who live or work on a
DoD Installation or who often use the facilities therein, may be required to register and be issued
a DD Form 2220, Vehicle Decal, for their vehicles at those locations.
3.6. Vehicle Registration at Air Force Installations. Personnel who possess appropriate
credentials to access Air Force Installations do not require a DD Form 2220. Although AFI 31-
218(I) requires vehicle registration, the Air Force was granted a waiver from this requirement.
Air Force Installations who continue to utilize the DD Form 2220 will use AFI 31-218(I) for
guidance and include any specific requirements for their location in the local traffic plan. The
Air Force will no longer produce DD Form 2220.
AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012                                                                             7


                                            Chapter 4

                             TRAFFIC PLANNING AND CODES

4.1. Installation Traffic Codes.
   4.1.1. Restraint systems.
       4.1.1.1. Require the use of child safety seats consistent with state, territory or host nation
       laws. If there is no state, territory or host nation law, all children under 4 years of age
       regardless of weight or less than 50 pounds regardless of age shall be properly secured in
       an appropriate child restraint system. Children ages 4 through 7, weighing 50 pounds or
       more and less than 4 feet 9 inches shall be properly secured in a booster seat or other
       appropriate child restraint system. Children ages 8 and above and no less than 4 feet 9
       inches in height will be properly secured in a vehicle seat belt or booster seat. The child
       safety seat or booster seat will be certified by the manufacturer to meet all applicable
       Federal performance standards or host nation requirements and will be installed in
       accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
       4.1.1.2. All drivers and passengers on Air Force installations will wear seat belts, or in
       the case of infants, be properly restrained.
   4.1.2. Radar Detection Devices. The use of radars or laser detection devices are prohibited
   on Air Force Installations.
   4.1.3. Off-road vehicle usage: Installation Commanders or their designee determines if,
   when and where off-road vehicles may be operated on base. In many areas, the operation of
   off-road vehicles is unregulated while other jurisdictions have strict requirements concerning
   age, safety training and vehicle equipment. Generally, some "on-street" safety practices such
   as reflective vests, gloves, headlights and goggles may not apply when operating off road in a
   recreational capacity. However, ensure full compliance with local, state or host nation
   requirements. When necessary, develop additional procedures and guidance locally and
   publish in the installation traffic safety plan or supplement to this instruction. Ensure
   environmental considerations are reviewed prior to designating any off-road vehicle use area.
4.2. Traffic Accident Investigation.
   4.2.1. A major traffic accident is any accident involving a fatality, injury or property damage
   above the amount established by Installation Commanders. Installation Commanders may set
   differing amounts for government versus private vehicle and property damage. Monetary
   damage amounts for major accidents are typically $10,000. The investigation of major
   accidents should be accomplished by a trained accident investigator. MAJCOMs will
   determine the level of training required.
   4.2.2. Generally, a detailed accident investigation includes, but is not limited to, an AF Form
   1315, Accident Report, field sketch, scale diagram (if death or serious bodily harm), and
   accident narrative.
4.3. Traffic Accident Investigation Reports.
   4.3.1. Military members report information to Security Forces if they are on/off base
   resulting in accidents involving injuries or damage to military property. Local guidance will
 8                                                                  AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012


     capture procedures to accomplish these notifications and the timeframes to report.
     Installation Commanders determine what agencies to notify and for what type of accidents to
     notify them. The DFC must develop a local notification matrix or other procedures to ensure
     proper notification of appropriate base and civilian agencies are conducted. Develop and
     publish these notification procedures locally.
     4.3.2. Security Forces will act as the focal point for gathering off-base accident information
     of military affiliated personnel. Record the information in the Security Forces blotter, along
     with the associated case number from the investigating police agency. When possible,
     Security Forces Reports and Analysis (S5R) will obtain copies of major accident reports
     prepared by investigating civilian police agencies to accompany off-base accident reporting
     information.
     4.3.3. Security Forces respond to all on-base major vehicle accidents (unless local conditions
     or policies prohibit) to accomplish the following:
        4.3.3.1. Render first aid and arrange for medical assistance.
        4.3.3.2. Protect personal property.
        4.3.3.3. Normalize traffic.
        4.3.3.4. Identify witnesses and personnel involved.
        4.3.3.5. Conduct a formal investigation.
        4.3.3.6. The DFC (with Installation Commander approval) will develop local response
        and investigative procedures for various types of accidents to include minor vehicle
        accidents. S/He may delegate this authority to on-duty Security Forces supervisory
        personnel.
     4.3.4. Record accident information in the Security Forces blotter. This information should
     include the accident type, time and date, location, name(s) of vehicle operator(s), unit (or
     address when civilian not affiliated with military), vehicle description and license
     number(s)/plate. Also, include a brief summary of any damage and circumstances behind or
     causing the accident, as well as any traffic citations issued.
     4.3.5. Investigation conducted by Security Forces and/or AFOSI of any traffic accident will
     take precedence over any other types of investigations relating to the accident. This
     precludes the loss of any potential evidence that may later have to be introduced in any
     criminal/judicial proceedings. (Example: Any safety related investigation and/or any other
     investigation that may hamper accident investigation practices by Security Forces and/or
     AFOSI.)
4.4. Parking.
     4.4.1. Reserved Parking. When not addressed by MAJCOMs, Installation Commanders
     determine reserved parking guidance for their installations. Number of available spaces,
     facility design and layout, traffic flow and number of vehicles using facilities will help
     determine the number and location of reserved parking spaces. Make guidance and
     procedures governing reserved parking a part of the installation supplement to this
     instruction, separate traffic control instruction or installation-parking plan. The publication
     must address approval, issue, control and review of reserved parking and should give special
AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012                                                                         9


   consideration to bicycle, motorcycle, visitor and car pool parking. Consideration should also
   be given to labor and management contracts when designating parking. Handicap parking is
   regulated under the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards and applies to all Air Force
   installations.
   4.4.2. Use distinctive emblems, decals, stickers, etc, to control parking space assignments
   and to indicate authorized use of the parking slot. MAJCOMs (or Installation Commanders if
   not addressed by the MAJCOM) may develop guidance concerning the issue and control of
   the identification media discussed above. Designation of parking spaces by name, grade, rank
   or title should be avoided due to force protection concerns.
   4.4.3. Installations may create a parking wardens program to monitor and cite parking
   violators at their facilities.
       4.4.3.1. If utilized, installations will develop a local publication to
       supplement/implement this instruction addressing the parking warden program. The
       supplement will include a requirement for individual unit commanders to delegate a
       minimum of one primary and alternate at the grade of E-5 or above, in writing. All
       monitors will issue parking tickets on the DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket.
       S5R will obtain a letter with the current monitors and maintain the letter on file.
       4.4.3.2. Monitors will be trained by the Security Forces unit on the correct procedures to
       complete tickets, including the routing process of issued tickets to S5R. The main
       difference between a DD Form 1408 issued by a Security Forces member and one by a
       parking monitor is the special instructions on the back of the pink copy that directs the
       violator to contact the monitor within 24 hours or next duty day who issued the ticket
       instead of Security Forces. Monitors will provide contact information on parking tickets
       to enable violators to provide information necessary to complete the citation.
4.5. Off-installation Traffic Activities. The DFC must develop procedures for the sharing and
exchanging of information with civil authorities. Local procedures must cover the receiving,
processing and securing of traffic and related incident reports received from other investigative
agencies. Unit commanders will be notified when personnel under their authority are involved in
serious off-base incidents (i.e., major accidents, DUI, hit and run, etc).
 10                                                                  AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012


                                             Chapter 5

                  DRIVING RECORDS AND THE TRAFFIC POINT SYSTEM

5.1. Driving Records. Use SFMIS to record vehicle traffic accidents, moving and parking
violations, suspension or revocation actions and traffic point assessments involving military and
DoD civilian personnel, their family members and other personnel operating motor vehicles on a
military installation. Use AF Form 1313, Driver Record, when SFMIS is not available. When
filling out the form, use the following codes in the “accident classification” block:
   5.1.1. Identify individuals who are principals in a motor vehicle accident as “Driver 1”
   subject or “Driver 2” victim.
   5.1.2. Identify accidents appropriately with “MVA” minor vehicle accident; (MJVA) major
   vehicle accident; “NLD” no liability determined; “PD” property damage; “PI” personal
   injury; “G” government; “P” private; “V” vehicle; and “FO” fixed object.

Table 5.1. Point Assessment for Moving Violations.
      Violation                                                                Points Assessed
         Reference paragraph 4.1.1.1. See note #1.                             2
         Operating a radar detection device to indicate the presence of        3
         speed recording instruments or to transmit simulated erroneous
         speed (prohibited on DoD installations). See note #2.
         Failure to yield to pedestrians in designated walkway/crosswalk.      3
         See note #2.
      NOTES:
      1. Applies to not using or when child restraint system is improperly installed, i.e., car
      seat, infant carrier, booster seat, belt/strap modification (when required by manufacturer),
      etc. Assess four points when no restraint system of any kind is used.
      2. When violation occurs within an active school zone, add 1 point to point assessment.

Table 5.2. Point Assessment for Non-Moving Violations. (See Note 1)
      Violation                                                                Points Assessed
         Unattended Child under 12 years of age left in vehicle. Animals       6
         are included if a danger exists to the animal. See note #4.
         Improper Registration (fraudulent tags).                              4
         Misuse of handicap decal. See note #2.                                3
         Illegally parked in designated handicap area (no decal, license or    3
         placard displayed).
         Unattended Vehicle (while running).                                   3
AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012                                                                           11


        Abandoned Vehicle.                                                 3
        Improper Parking. See note #3.                                     2
        Improper Registration (expired or unregistered).                   2
    NOTES:
    1. When two or more violations are committed on a single occasion, points may be
    assessed for each violation.
    2. When a vehicle has a handicap decal displayed, but the occupant is not the decal or
    placard registrant and is not dropping off or picking up the handicapped registrant. Also
    includes parking in an area designated for “Van” access only, and handicap registrant has
    parked another vehicle class instead.
    3. When designated in local parking plan (i.e., double parked, parked in reserved parking,
    against the flow of traffic and those areas designated for emergency vehicles).
    4. When an AF Form 3545 will also be accomplished. Revocation of driving privileges
    for one year will be considered by the commander. Example: If children or animals were
    left in dangerous conditions in vehicle, i.e., in hot weather where interior temperatures
    may reach dangerous levels, keys left accessible to children or where conditions are
    deemed hazardous by a reasonable person.
    5. Emergency vehicles are authorized to park in any area deemed necessary to affect a
    response.

5.2. Point System Procedures.
   5.2.1. Distribute citation copies and process point assessments IAW AFMAN 31-201,
   Volume 7, Security Forces Reports and Analysis.
   5.2.2. Installation Commanders may suspend or revoke driving privileges as provided by this
   instruction regardless of whether the improvement measures identified in AFI 31-218(I) are
   accomplished.
5.3. Disposition of Driving Records. Follow AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures
and Responsibilities, to maintain and destroy records of military personnel released from active
duty. Driving records remain active in the case of immediate reenlistment, change of officer
component or military and civilian retirement or when continued access to an installation is
authorized. Retain or destroy according to AFI 33-364 records on civilian personnel who are
terminating on-base employment.
 12                                                                 AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012


                                            Chapter 6

                     IMPOUNDING PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLES

6.1. Standards for Impoundment. The on-duty SF Flight Chief, or above, will determine
when the vehicle will be driven or moved without owner’s consent if the owner cannot be
contacted or the owner refuses and conditions in AFI 31-218(I) are present.
6.2. Procedures for Impoundment. At times, civilian law enforcement or civilian government
agencies will request the Air Force impound an on-base vehicle for reasons not related to
military issues. Staff such requests through the SJA and DFC. When appropriate, comply and
support such requests and impound the vehicle for a reasonable period. Release the vehicle if
civil authorities do not take custody of the vehicle within a reasonable period as determined by
Installation Commanders.
6.3. Disposition of Vehicles After Impoundment. Impoundment and disposition of privately
owned vehicles is a high-risk process. It is imperative an installation have a detailed plan to:
Ensure wide publicity of base impoundment rules; have a process to provide reasonable notice of
impoundment and an opportunity to reclaim a vehicle; conduct a review of proposed disposal by
appropriate base offices, to include the SJA, prior to taking action; and a process to obtain retail
records of these actions in the event of litigation or high-level inquiry. Further information on
impoundment can be found in AFI 31-218(I).




                                              JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012                                                                     13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, U.S.C. § 2575, Disposition of Unclaimed Property
Title 10 U.S.C. §, Section 8013
Title 50, U.S.C. § 797
DoD 4140.1-R, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, 23 May 2003
DoDD 5525.4, Enforcement of State Traffic Laws on DoD Installations, 2 November 1981
DoDD 7730.47, Defense Incident Based Reporting System (DIBRS), 1 December 2003
DoD 4160.21M, Defense Material Disposition Manual, 18 August 1997
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2009
AFI 31-101, The Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures, 31 March 2009
AFI 31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 30 March 2009
AFI 36-810, Substance Abuse Prevention and Control, 22 July 1994
AFMAN, 32-1017, DoD Transportation Engineering Program, 17 November 2003
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program, 26
September 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 51-905, Use of Magistrate Judges for Trial of Misdemeanors Committed by Civilians, 1
June 1998
AFI 91-207, USAF Traffic Safety Program, 22 May 2007
Forms Prescribed.
AF Form 533, Certificate of Compliance - Private Motor Vehicle Registration, 1 December 1984
Adopted Forms.
AF Form 1313, Driver Record
AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
CVB Form 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice
DD Form 1920, Alcohol Influence Report
DD Form 2220, DoD Registered Vehicle Decal
DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment
 14                                                          AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012


DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
DD Form 1920, Alcohol Influence Report
DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment
AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass
AF Form 1313, Driver Record
AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
AF Form 3545, Incident Report
AF Form 1315, Accident Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAC—Blood Alcohol Concentration
BAT—Blood Alcohol Test
BrAC—Breath Alcohol Concentration
CE—Civil Engineer
CONUS—Continental United States
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DBIDS—Defense Biometric Identification System
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
FO—Fixed Object
G—Government
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAJCOM/SF—Major Command Defense Force Commander
MJVA—Major Vehicle Accident
MTMCTEA—Military Traffic Management Command Transportation Engineering Agency
MVA—Motor Vehicle Accident
MWR—Morale, Welfare and Recreation
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NHSPS—National Highway Safety Program Standards
NHTSA—National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
NLD—No Liability Determined
AFMAN31-116 9 MAY 2012                                15


OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
ORV—Off Road Vehicle
P—Private
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PD—Property Damage
PI—Personal Injury
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
S5R—Security Forces Administration and Reports
U.S.C. §—United States Code
V—Vehicle
