BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE MANUAL 13-215, Volume 3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               6 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                           Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                       AIRFIELD OPERATIONS EQUIPMENT
                                                                             SYSTEMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFFSA/A3A                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-B
                                                                         (Lt Col Robert A. Ricker)
Supersedes:    AFMAN 13-215,                                                             Pages: 11
               16 JANUARY 2002


This manual implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace
and Range Management. It applies to all US Air Force (USAF), Air National Guard (ANG) and
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) organizations (to include contracted locations) that
operate or administer functions in facilities in the airfield operations flight (AOF). At joint,
shared-use and overseas airfields, this manual applies to the facilities that are controlled and used
exclusively by the Department of the Air Force, as outlined in real estate documents or letters of
agreement. It provides instruction for utilization and operation of Airfield Operations (AO)
equipment systems. This manual may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that
directly implement this publication must be routed to the HQ Air Force Flight Standards Agency,
Director of Airfield Operations (HQ AFFSA/A3A) for coordination prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. Major
changes include: Air Traffic Control recorder system information was extracted from AFI 13-
204 Volume 3, Airfield Operations Procedures and Programs and inserted into this volume.
 2                                                    AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014



                                          Chapter 1

                                        OVERVIEW

1.1. Scope and Purpose of this Manual. This manual provides instructions for utilization and
operation of selected AO equipment systems.
1.2. Responsibilities. HQ AFFSA will establish USAF instructions for utilization and operation
of AO equipment systems through publication of this Air Force Manual (AFMAN) and
associated volumes.
1.3. Waivers and Recommended Changes.
     1.3.1. Waiver Authority. HQ AFFSA is the waiver authority for this manual. All waivers
     will be submitted to HQ AFFSA/A3A (hqaffsa.a3a@us.af.mil) through the appropriate
     MAJCOM (Major Command) AO OPR for consideration. Note: Waivers to this manual
     will only be considered when deemed necessary for completion of assigned flying mission.
     1.3.2. Waiver Process. Use AF IMT 4058, Airfield Operations Policy Waiver, to request
     waivers to this manual. If additional space is required, annotate on plain bond paper and
     submit along with the form. Number each comment with the corresponding block number.
     In addition, units must submit an Operational Risk Management (ORM) Assessment in
     accordance with Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 90-803, Risk Management (RM)Guidelines
     and Tools, or alternate risk mitigation procedures with all waiver requests.
        1.3.2.1. The Airfield Operations Flight Commander (AOF/CC) forwards the AF IMT
        4058 through the Senior Operational Commander (SOC) (i.e, Operations Group
        Commander [OG/CC]) to the MAJCOM OPR for AO, who will then coordinate and send
        to HQ AFFSA/A3A for final resolution. If deemed necessary, submit additional
        supporting data to substantiate the waiver request.
        1.3.2.2. To ensure a periodic revalidation of waiver requirements, HQ AFFSA normally
        grants AO waivers for two year periods.
        1.3.2.3. Waiver renewal requests must reach HQ AFFSA NLT 45 days prior to
        expiration.
     1.3.3. Recommended Changes. Submit recommended changes to this manual through the
     MAJCOM OPR for AO to HQ AFFSA using AF Form 847.
AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                 3


                                            Chapter 2

                                     RECORDER SYSTEMS

2.1. General. Digital Voice Recorder System (DVRS) and Digital Audio Legal Recorder
(DALR).
2.2. DVRS. Where capabilities exist, record by operating position, individual frequency, and
landlines as determined by facility managers.
   2.2.1. Record operating positions in the following priority:
       2.2.1.1. Precision Approach Radar.
       2.2.1.2. Local Control.
       2.2.1.3. Primary Crash Alarm System.
       2.2.1.4. Arrival Control.
       2.2.1.5. Departure Control.
       2.2.1.6. Approach Control.
       2.2.1.7. Coordinator.
       2.2.1.8. Flight Data.
       2.2.1.9. Approach/Arrival Assistant.
       2.2.1.10. Clearance Delivery.
       2.2.1.11. Ground Control.
       2.2.1.12. Supervisor of Flying (SOF).
       2.2.1.13. Land Mobile Radio (LMR) nets.
       2.2.1.14. Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS).
       2.2.1.15. Supervisor.
       2.2.1.16. Tower backup radios.
       2.2.1.17. Administrative telephones.
   2.2.2. Multi-channel recorders/DVRS must have an approved time source installed (i.e.
   Global Positioning System).
   2.2.3. Record pilot-to-dispatch and pilot-to-metro frequencies after meeting the requirements
   of paragraph 2.2.1. Use remaining channels to record individual frequencies.
   2.2.4. Digital Audio Tape (DAT) Administration.
       2.2.4.1. CCTLRs must establish schedules, procedures, and checklists for DAT
       changes/cleaning.
       2.2.4.2. CCTLRs must ensure personnel performing DAT changes are trained in the
       proper methods to be used and task certification is documented in AF Form 623.
 4                                                      AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014


        2.2.4.3. CCTLRs must consider local conditions and ensure DATs are changed at
        increments that do not exhaust DAT capacity. Note: DAT changing cycles must not
        exceed 73 hours.
        2.2.4.4. CCTLRs must ensure personnel include an entry on the AF IMT 3616, Daily
        Record of Facility Operation, identifying date, time, DAT in use, the initials of the
        person accomplishing the change, and reason for the change (e.g. periodic, bad tape, etc.).
        2.2.4.5. CCTLRs must ensure an identification number is assigned to each DAT and
        enough are available in the rotation cycle to accommodate 45-day overwrite protection.
        Protection must be ensured to prevent inadvertent loss of data at facilities using DATs for
        greater than 24-hour cycles. Locations using a 24-hour rotation cycle must ensure a
        minimum of 45 days between initial insertion and reuse. Locations using a 48-hour
        rotation cycle must ensure a minimum of 46 days between initial insertion and reuse.
            2.2.4.5.1. Recordings must adhere to the requirements of AFI 13-204 Volume 3,
            Chapter 5.
            2.2.4.5.2. DATs must be replaced after 35 recording cycles.
        2.2.4.6. Directly after a DAT insertion (as a standby tape), the DVRS places a “date
        created” tag on the tape (current Zulu date). DAT software calculates the 45-day
        overwrite protection based on the “date created” tag, not the last recording on the tape. If
        the recorded content of the tape exceeds two days from the “date created” stamp, there is
        a potential to overwrite recorded data too soon (especially for locations using DATs
        longer than a 24-hour cycle).
        2.2.4.7. Validate Nicelog supervision window for alarms and verify normal operations of
        equipment on DVRS on a daily basis, not to exceed 25 hours.
        2.2.4.8. Audio quality checks must be accomplished monthly. If this function is
        performed by maintenance, include in facility procedures. Annotate Nicelog verification
        and quality checks on AF IMT 3616 when accomplished.
        2.2.4.9. DVRS users must be issued unique log-in passwords (e.g. LOG-IN: RT;
        PASSWORD: chosen by RT). Note 1: Log-in password information must not be shared
        among users (e.g., LOG-IN: A Crew; PASSWORD: shared by A Crew). Note 2:
        Delete/disable user accounts when a member is reassigned (e.g. Permanent Change of
        Station [PCS], Permanent Change of Assignment [PCA], etc.).
        2.2.4.10. DVRS must only be used for accessing and editing recordings made with the
        DVRS equipment. The computer workstation and logger must not be used for any other
        purpose.
        2.2.4.11. No other programs and/or software packages are to be loaded and/or executed
        on any of the DVRS system components.
        2.2.4.12. Do not lock channels longer than five hours. Locking channels for extended
        periods of time will overload the hard-drive and cause system failure. Make an entry on
        AF IMT 3616 to show locking and unlocking times.
2.3. Digital Audio Legal Recorder (DALR) Administration.
     2.3.1. CCTLRs must establish schedules, procedures, and checklists for audio/alarm checks.
AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                5


  2.3.2. CCTLRS must ensure personnel performing DALR recording and alarm checks are
  trained in the proper methods to be used and task certification is documented in AF Form
  623.
  2.3.3. Daily Recording/Alarm Checks.
     2.3.3.1. Validate Simple Network Messaging Protocol (SNMPc) Management software
     is operational and verify normal operations of equipment on a daily basis not to exceed
     25 hours.
     2.3.3.2. CCTLRs must ensure personnel include an entry on the AF IMT 3616
     identifying date, time, the initials of the person accomplishing the check, and reason for
     the check.
  2.3.4. Monthly Quality Checks.
     2.3.4.1. CCTLRs must establish procedures that ensure DALR recording quality checks
     are accomplished at least monthly and include a statement on the AF IMT 3616 when
     such checks are accomplished.
     2.3.4.2. The High Density Logger (HDL) establishes a 45-day protection window on
     recorded data automatically.
  2.3.5. Rewriteable CDs (CD-RWs), Digital Video Discs (DVDs), or any type of flash media
  are not authorized for use on the DALR system. Recordings shall be on a Compact Disc-
  Recordable (CD-R) or Digital Video Disc-Recordable (DVD-R) only.
     2.3.5.1. CD/DVDs shall be marked with date extracted, date/time of incident, facility
     name, and rank/name of individual accomplishing recording.
     2.3.5.2. Recordings must adhere to the requirements of AFI 13-204 Volume 3, Chapter
     5.
     2.3.5.3. Recordings shall not be emailed.
  2.3.6. DALR users must be issued unique log-in passwords (e.g. LOG-IN: RT;
  PASSWORD: chosen by RT). Note 1: Log-in password information must not be shared
  among users (e.g., LOG-IN: A Crew; PASSWORD: shared by A Crew). Note 2:
  Delete/disable user accounts when a member is reassigned (e.g., PCS, PCA, etc.).
  2.3.7. DALR must only be used for accessing and editing recordings made with the DALR
  equipment. The computer workstations must not be used for any other purpose.
  2.3.8. No other programs and/or software packages are to be loaded and/or executed on any
  of the DALR system components.
  2.3.9. Profile access shall be restricted as follows:
     2.3.9.1. System Administrator - AO staff and Airfield Systems personnel only.
     2.3.9.2. Organizer - 7-level AO personnel or above.
     2.3.9.3. Reconstruct - 5-level AO personnel or above.
     2.3.9.4. Monitor - All AO personnel.
 6                                                       AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014


                                             Chapter 3

               PROGRAMMABLE INDICATOR DATA PROCESSOR (PIDP)

3.1. PIDP System Adaptation. All PIDP installations use the same standard PIDP computer
software program. Before facility delivery, AFFSA/A4S adds site unique data to the standard
software to optimize the program for use at that facility.
     3.1.1. PIDP design criteria. The program design criteria for the PIDP provides air traffic
     controllers the capability to furnish a safe terminal advisory and control service to aircraft
     arrivals, departures, and over flights. Required items of site unique data ensure achieving
     this objective. All program magnetic media delivered to each facility include the site unique
     data, tailoring the standard PIDP software to fit the specific system and area. The following
     paragraphs detail specific steps for collecting, compiling, recording, and submitting site
     unique data for the proper functioning of the auto-acquire, terminal-to-terminal hand-off, and
     reflection discrimination features. For the software to function properly, keep all site unique
     data accurate. When necessary to change an item of site unique data, request the change
     from HQ AFFSA/A4S (DSN 884-7004). Address all correspondence concerning PIDP to:
     HQ AFFSA/A4S, 6500 S. MacArthur Blvd, Oklahoma City, OK 73169. Process change
     requests at least 30 days before the change takes effect to allow time for data processing and
     return delivery of the corrected program. Provide the MAJCOM Terminal Instrument
     Procedures (TERPS) office an information copy of all revisions sent directly to HQ
     AFFSA/A4S.
        3.1.1.1. Facility Data.
            3.1.1.1.1. Basic Site information: HQ AFFSA/A4S will provide a work sheet for site
            unique data with the initial request. Retain a current copy in facility records. The
            operation of the PIDP software is dependent upon the accuracy of this information.
            Retain a current copy in facility records. To request a change of site unique data,
            identify the changed item(s) in a letter or message to HQ AFFSA/A4S.
            3.1.1.1.2. Auto-acquire/Conflict Alert.       Provide coordinates of the facility’s
            designated airspace boundary to HQ AFFSA/A4S. After processing the data, HQ
            AFFSA/A4S furnishes a computer-generated map of the airspace, auto-acquire area,
            and conflict alert boundaries for local review. Auto-acquire is roughly based on a 10
            nautical mile (NM) boundary around the designated airspace. The conflict alert
            boundary is by default 10 NM outside of the auto-acquire boundary. HQ
            AFFSA/A4S designs these sectors based on magnetic North, as determined by the
            Airport Surveillance Radar site’s magnetic variation. The PIDP computer program
            prevents the auto-acquire/ conflict alert functions from operating on aircraft outside
            the defined boundaries. When changing auto-acquire/conflict alert limits, refer to the
            sector by number (1-36), and give the new requested range value(s).
        3.1.1.2. Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW) Data. Collect MSAW data IAW Air
        Force Manual 13-215v2, Airfield Operations Charts and Instrument Procedures Support.
        3.1.1.3. Terminal-to-Terminal Interface Data Collection:
AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     7


        3.1.1.3.1. The PIDP terminal-to-terminal interface function allows interfacing of one
        facility with up to eight other automated PIDP or Automated Radar Terminal System
        terminal facilities or non-host centers. Other facilities must interface with the same
        Air Route Traffic Control Center (ARTCC), share a common airspace boundary, and
        have the software capability. Terminal Radar Service Area (TRSA) hand-offs are an
        additional option to the standard terminal-to-terminal interface.
        3.1.1.3.2. Use the HQ AFFSA/A4S form in Attachment 2 for submitting terminal-
        to-terminal interface data. Coordinate the necessary data between the terminal
        facilities involved. Fill in the required data beginning with Terminal Facility Number
        1. The computer program uses the facility number and the TRSA alpha character to
        identify that facility in hand-off processing. Facility reference IDs are the three letter
        identifiers that the ARTCC computer uses to identify the facilities. Use two fixes
        (defined by three letter identifiers) for each entry. The first fix is the entry fix and the
        second is the exit fix. Indicate the type of fix pair (enroute or arrival) on the form.
        Use enroute fix pairs for over flight routes through the receiving facility’s airspace.
        Use arrival fix pairs for flights that terminate in the receiving facility’s airspace. In
        the case of an arrival type fix pair, the exit fix is the destination airport. Submit data
        required for the terminal-to-terminal function directly to HQ AFFSA/A4S at least 30
        days in advance of the effective date.
     3.1.1.4. Reflection Data Collection:
        3.1.1.4.1. Some locations may experience difficulty with false targets caused by
        radar reflections. With appropriate additions to the basic software, the PIDP is
        capable of inhibiting the display of many of these false target reflections. Reflection
        processing is effective only against true radar reflections and cannot reduce the clutter
        caused by maladjusted equipment gain time constant (GTC). This clutter is often
        called "ring-around."
        3.1.1.4.2. Facility CCTLRs experiencing difficulties with reflections should contact
        HQ AFFSA/A4S for assistance and the necessary forms. Data required includes the
        code, altitude, the beginning and ending range and azimuth of real targets and the
        altitude, beginning and ending range and azimuth, and the number of sweeps for the
        false targets. Track the real and false targets to determine the azimuth and range
        where real targets begin picking up reflected signals which produce false targets.
        Define these false target zones; mark the real and false target zones on the radar
        indicators in grease pencil when the controllers’ observations show a pattern. After
        the zones are clearly defined, make a sketch of the display showing the real and false
        target zones. Data must be complete and accurate to minimize the possibility of
        suppressing true targets. The quality of the reflection suppression depends upon the
        accuracy of the observations and the size of the sample. One or two observations do
        not form an adequate sample. Conversely, hundreds of samples are not necessary to
        define reflections off of a building. Twenty to thirty tracks should reasonably define
        the individual false target zones. Note also that some real target tracks may have
        more than one false target zone (two or more false target tracks). Record these also.
        Collect this data with the AN/TPX-42A Interrogator Set operating in normal low
        power mode, with Defruit and Bracket Video “ON.” Observe data from both
8                                              AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014


    receivers and transmitters. Set video signal processor settings as shown in the most
    recent Air Traffic Control & Landing Systems Evaluation.




                                    HARRY C. DISBROW, Jr., SES, DAF AF/A3/5
                                    Assoc DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                        9


                                      Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace and Range Management, 7 August 2007
AFI 13-204 Volume 3, Airfield Operations Procedures and Programs, 1 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 90-803, Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, 11 February 2013
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 4058, Airfield Operations Policy Waiver
AF IMT 3616, Daily Record of Facility Operation

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Airfield Operations
AOF—Airfield Operations Flight
AOF/CC—Airfield Operations Flight Commander
ARTCC—Air Route Traffic Control Center
ATIS—Automatic Terminal Information Service
CCTLR—Chief Controller
CD-R—Compact-Disc Recordable
CD-RW—CD Rewriteable
DALR—Digital Audio Legal Recorder
DAT—Digital Audio Tape
DSS—Data System Specialists
DVD—R—Digital Video Disc-Recordable
DVRS—Digital Voice Recorder System
 10                                            AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014


GTC—Gain Time Constant
HDL—High Density Logger
HQ AFFSA—Headquarters Air Force Flight Standards Agency
IMT—Information Management Tool
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSAW—Minimum Safe Altitude Warning
NM—Nautical Mile
OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PIDP—Programmable Indicator Data Processor
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SNMPc—Simple Network Messaging Protocol
SOC—Senior Operational Commander
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedures
TI—Track Initiate
TRSA—Terminal Radar Service Area
AFMAN13-215V3 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     11


                                          Attachment 2




                                       INSTRUCTIONS

We need all information to be updated, verified and then corrected (as needed). This information
will remain current in our files until such time that you submit changes to your site data. Please
utilize all of your resources to get the most correct information. PIDP allows for up to eight
“Terminal Facilities”, this data collection sheet will hold six. Please attach another page if you
have more facilities than the form allows. TERPS personnel shall provide Latitude/Longitude
information. Facility managers shall provide fix pair data and arrival/enroute information. Data
System Specialists (DSS) at the ARTS/ARTCC facility should be able to provide adjacent
facility terminal information. Should you have trouble obtaining any of this data, please call HQ
AFFSA/A4S at DSN 884-5696.

                                   DEFINITION OF TERMS

If you have an adjacent NON-HOST facility, you only have to provide the facility name and
PIDP reference identification. All other facility entries must include antenna location and fix
pair data (if required).

Facility Name - This should be the terminal facility to which you will make handoff. If the
ARTS facility is enhanced to receive field 13 in Track Initiate (TI) messages, then place a large
“E” next to the facility name.

PIDP Reference ID - This is an ARTCC defined 3-letter identifier for the terminal facility. You
must have this if you interface with an adjacent ARTS/PIDP.

Antenna Location - Geographical location of the adjacent facility radar antenna. Example: 51
24 33.00N 122 34 15.00W

Entry Fix ID - Entry fix for one of up to four routes (A through D).

Exit Fix ID - Exit fix for one of up to four routes (A through D).

Arrival/Enroute - This denotes whether the pair data above is for arrival or enroute routes to or
through the adjacent facilities airspace.
