BY ORDER OF THE                                                                                      AIR FORCE MANUAL 65-510
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                               22 SEPTEMBER 2008
                                                                                          Certified Current, 19 OCTOBER 2010
                                                                                                        Financial Management

                                                                            BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS PROCEDURES




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                           www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link)
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/FMCEE                                                                Certified by: SAF/FMC (Mr. Richard Hartley)
                                                                                                               Pages: 30

This manual implements AFI 65-509, Business Case Analysis, by providing specific information on con-
ducting Business Case Analyses (BCA) to support Air Force command, management, and financial deci-
sions. This publication supersedes SAF/FM memo, Interim Guidance for Business Case Analysis, 18
March 2005. This manual implements the business case analysis (BCA) provisions of OMB Circular
A-11, Preparation and Submission, and Execution of the Budget, DoD 7000.14R, Volume 2B, Chapter 18,
DoD Financial Management Regulation, and AFPD 65-5, Cost and Economics. It applies to individuals
at all levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, or approve BCAs including Air Force Reserve Com-
mand (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. This AFMAN may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to SAF/FMCE and AF/A9 coordination
prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Rec-
ommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure records created due to processes prescribed in this pub-
lication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply Air Force endorsement.

Chapter 1— INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                       3
      1.1.   Definition ...................................................................................................................   3
      1.2.   Relationship to Economic Analysis. ..........................................................................                    3
      1.3.   Relationship to specific, unique program documents. ...............................................                              3
      1.4.   Decision making tool. ................................................................................................           3

Chapter 2— BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS CONTENT                                                                                                     4
      2.1.   Framework. ................................................................................................................      4
2                                                                                      AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


      2.2.   Sections. .....................................................................................................................    4
Table 2.1.   Communications Plan ...............................................................................................               15

Chapter 3— INFORMATION COLLECTION, RECORDS, AND FORMS                                                                                          18
      3.1.   Information Collections .............................................................................................             18
      3.2.   Records ......................................................................................................................    18
      3.3.   Forms (Adopted and Prescribed). ..............................................................................                    18

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                19

Attachment 2— REQUEST FOR WAIVER FROM A BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS
           REQUIREMENT                                                                                                                         24

Attachment 3— BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS CHECKLIST                                                                                                 26
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               3


                                                 Chapter 1

                                            INTRODUCTION

1.1. Definition : A business case analysis (BCA) is a decision support document that identifies alterna-
tives and presents convincing business, economic, risk, and technical arguments for selection and imple-
mentation to achieve stated organizational objectives/imperatives. A BCA does not replace the judgment
of a decision maker, but rather provides an analytic and uniform foundation upon which sound investment
decisions can be made. The subject of a BCA may include any significant investment decision that lead-
ership is contemplating. For example, a BCA may be used to substantiate the case to invest in a new
weapons system; transform business operations; develop a web-based training curriculum; or retire an
asset. In general, BCAs are designed to answer the following question: What are the likely financial and
other business (non-financial) consequences if we execute this investment decision or this action?

1.2. Relationship to Economic Analysis. Although the terms “business case analysis” and “economic
analysis” (EA) are sometimes used interchangeably, a BCA is considerably broader in scope. For exam-
ple, an EA might examine whether it is more economical to buy or lease cargo aircraft. In contrast, a BCA
would present a case as to why it makes sense to acquire aircraft at all, regardless of procurement method.
In so doing, the BCA might examine other options to satisfy warfighting re-supply, e.g. pre-positioning
assets or using land or sea-based assets in conjunction with the other Services. In that sense it is more
encompassing. BCAs will focus on other aspects of a proposed investment decision such as: the plan for
implementing the decision; identifying key stakeholders; and specifying performance indicators so that
the impact of the decision can be tracked over time. A BCA should be viewed as a “living” document that
helps substantiate the initial investment decisions and is then used to track the success of those decisions
over time. In practice, this breadth of scope is typically absent in a traditional economic analysis.

1.3. Relationship to specific, unique program documents. Note that this AFMAN and AFI 65-509
provide a basic framework for the BCA process. Specific situations may require unique formats or modi-
fications to the BCA outline presented herein. One specific example of a unique scenario is Enhanced Use
Leasing (EUL). EUL is provided under the authority of Title 10 United States Code Section 2667, as
amended. This authority allows for military installations to lease land and facilities to private or public
entities in exchange for cash or in-kind consideration equal to the fair market value of the leasehold value
of the underutilized asset. EUL BCAs focus on identifying the highest and best use for the fair market
value of the asset and presenting the business, economic, and technical arguments in support of the EUL
project. For specific guidance on this variation, consult Appendix G of the Enhanced Use Lease Hand-
book, found at the Air Force Real Property Agency (AFRPA) web site, http://www.safie.hq.af.mil/
afrpa/eul/index.asp. Other programs may also have variations from the basic format presented herein.

1.4. Decision making tool. A BCA can be an important tool to help an organization decide among mul-
tiple scenarios for future action. Thus the BCA presents a case for a choice of action. Similar analyses that
are less robust than a BCA may consist of a simple comparison of cash flows, but a good BCA is consid-
erably more than that. It considers all the expected effects of an action, not just the financial ones, across
the entire organization and also assesses the likelihood that those effects will occur as anticipated (i.e.,
risk issues). In view of these considerations, the recommendation supported by a BCA might not neces-
sarily be the one that has the highest financial benefits.
4                                                                AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                                Chapter 2

                               BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS CONTENT

2.1. Framework. This section provides the general framework for a BCA. The content described in each
section needs to be included in the documentation for a BCA. Note also that a BCA is scaleable depending
on the decision being contemplated. When deciding upon the depth of a BCA, preparers of BCAs should
keep in mind the decision-making audience; the timeframe for the decision; and the implications of the
proposed decision. In some cases, a top level, preliminary, BCA of only 3-5 pages, prepared within a very
short time (e.g., a week), is appropriate while in other cases a more extensive study is required. However,
in all cases, the main body of the BCA should be succinct enough to allow decision makers to fully grasp
the issues without becoming overwhelmed by details. The BCA should be limited to a maximum size of
20-40 pages (excluding attachments) and should be commensurate in breadth and depth with the magni-
tude of resources involved. The ultimate objective is to provide an analysis that effectively supports a
timely decision-making process.

2.2. Sections. The following sections are included in each documented BCA:
    2.2.1. Executive Summary
    2.2.2. Problem Statement
    2.2.3. Assumptions
    2.2.4. Current State Description – “Status Quo” or “As Is”
    2.2.5. Future State Description – “To-Be”
    2.2.6. Cost-Benefit Analysis
    2.2.7. Recommendation
       2.2.7.1. Funding
    2.2.8. Sensitivity and Risk Analyses
    2.2.9. Change Management Plan
       2.2.9.1. Stakeholder Plan
       2.2.9.2. Communications Plan
       2.2.9.3. Training Plan
       2.2.9.4. Implementation or Action Plan
       2.2.9.5. Key Performance Measures and Outcomes
       2.2.9.6. Appendix (used as a reference section for the supporting detail of the report)
       (Note: Depending on the depth of the analysis, it may be appropriate to include appendices with
       detailed analytical support or background for many of these sections.)
    2.2.10. Executive Summary: Provide a summary of the proposed investment decision. This section
    should focus on the key highlights that will then be expounded upon in the sections that follow the
    executive summary. Executive Summary section should be no more than three pages in length.
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               5


     2.2.10.1. Provide a short narrative identifying the OPR that prepared the BCA, the recipient or
     customer, date, subject, project location, problem statement, project year and period of analysis. In
     addition, provide any background information or history that will aid the reader in understanding
     the results of the analysis.
     2.2.10.2. Present the name of each feasible alternative, its total investment cost, key financial met-
     rics (e.g. net present value (NPV), return on investment (ROI), Internal Rate of Return (IRR)),
     operational and combat metrics, benefits, constraints, and the risks. Constraints and risks that must
     be considered when determining costs include, for example: the need for legislation or military
     construction funding to make an alternative feasible; the need to possess or acquire technical data
     or licenses; the statutory requirements to analyze the impact on small businesses; the ability (and
     costs) to terminate existing contracts; the statutory requirement for a public-private competition if
     the work being performed by more than nine civilian employees will be converted to contract; and
     any legal prohibitions against elements of implementing a proposed alternative. In addition, pro-
     vide the ranking of each alternative. Much of this information may be in a table format. See the
     glossary of terms in Attachment 1 for definitions of the key financial metrics.
     2.2.10.3. Summarize how the recommended course of action will bring value (benefit) to the
     implementing organization or describe the particular problem that the investment decision will
     solve. Value should be defined in general terms: how the particular investment enables the organi-
     zation to achieve strategic goals. Value should also be defined in net quantitative benefits (e.g.,
     monetary savings, ROI, payback period, improvement in operational and combat metrics) that the
     proposed investment is anticipated to generate.
     2.2.10.4. Summarize the plan required for implementing the particular investment decision. Iden-
     tify the key stakeholders and their responsibilities. Describe the implementation schedule. Sum-
     marize budget requirements.
     2.2.10.5. Identify key assumptions upon which the analysis is based. Identify the analytical “trip
     points.” In other words, to what extent would key assumptions have to fail such that the business
     case no longer makes sense? How likely is this to happen? What measures will be taken to miti-
     gate the risk of failure? This discussion is a form of risk analysis and sensitivity analysis. If appli-
     cable, explain if there is a sensitivity “break point” or “crossover point” at which the proposed
     alternative would no longer be the recommended option, but rather another alternative would arise
     as the preferred option. There are times when economic and non-economic variables are so sensi-
     tive that they may affect the rank ordered list of alternatives.
     2.2.10.6. Describe any measures that will be used to track the progress of the decision once imple-
     mented.
  2.2.11. Problem Statement : A well-developed business case always begins with a problem state-
  ment that clearly and concisely defines the problem, requirement or opportunity to be analyzed. What
  is the purpose of the analysis? What problem are you trying to solve? What is the scope of your anal-
  ysis? Who is the decision maker? The problem statement helps define the framework of the analysis
  to be performed. Additionally, this statement should not assume a specific means of achieving the
  desired result, but rather what the desired end-state is in as objective terms as possible (i.e., not biased
  toward any one alternative). Bias or unfounded assumptions in the problem statement undermine the
  analytical purpose of the BCA by jumping to conclusions. Having a clear and well-defined problem
  statement gives you a reference point to go back to when you proceed through your analysis. After
6                                                                AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


    reading this section, the decision maker should understand the purpose of the analysis and the frame-
    work of its conclusion. The problem statement should be limited to one page or less. If the problem
    statement does not accurately state the problem, then the whole BCA will be off on the wrong track
    and will address the wrong issue. If possible, drafts of a problem statement should be reviewed with
    the organization or senior leader requiring the BCA so that the intent of the analysis is clear up front.
    Such clarification can avoid unnecessary rework and make sure the analysis covers the assigned
    objective.
    2.2.12. Assumptions: Assumptions are beliefs about what is true of a current or future state of affairs
    for a situation. Prior to formulating assumptions, what is known with certainty should be stated: facts,
    laws, defined criteria, ground rules, constraints, regulations, OSD or Air Force guidance, any factor
    known to be true that may affect the current or future business conditions under consideration in the
    analysis. After stating what is known, list the assumptions about what is not known, or about future
    states affecting business conditions. It is crucial to identify all key assumptions upon which the busi-
    ness case is based. Identifying assumptions is critical to conducting risk or sensitivity analysis (para
    2.2.8.) on which alternative to recommend. Each major assumption should be evaluated for its impact
    on the business case should it be significantly changed. Assumptions are critical because not including
    a key assumption, or changing key assumptions can directly influence which alternative is recom-
    mended.
    2.2.13. Current State Description - “Status Quo” or “As Is” : Each investment decision will
    impact an existing process whether the decision involves a material solution such as procuring a new
    piece of equipment, or a non-material solution such as changing a mode of operations. Each decision
    should be evaluated in the context of the current “Status Quo” process that exists prior to the imple-
    mentation of the proposed investment decision or new way of doing business. A description of the
    “Status Quo” state of operations is thus, critical insofar as it establishes the foundation against which
    the proposed investment decision can be evaluated. For example, suppose a proposed investment will
    generate the production of 6 widgets per day. It is not possible to evaluate the value of this investment
    unless the “as-is” production state (e.g., 4 widgets per day) is known. Requirements for the current
    state description are amplified in the following subsections. “Status Quo” may also be thought of as
    the “as-is” state.
       2.2.13.1. Describe the current process or state of operations that the particular investment deci-
       sion will impact. Provide a narrative description of the key elements of the process (the inputs,
       processes and outputs), individuals or organizations performing the tasks, and the tools, systems,
       logistics or support functions, training, or other factors critical to the process. Include the custom-
       ers and the requirement(s) that will be impacted by the decision. Where feasible, include process
       maps to the level of detail necessary to support this description.
       2.2.13.2. Describe the users of the process output and why they value that output. Why is this out-
       put important to the implementing organization, its stakeholders, its customers or the Air Force in
       general?
       2.2.13.3. Identify the key performance indicators (KPIs) for the current process. Describe the
       cost, effectiveness and efficiency of the current process. Cost might be addressed in terms of full
       time equivalents (FTEs) of personnel, hours of work, or other specific cost elements (i.e., supplies,
       contracts, travel, etc.). Describe the effectiveness of the process in terms of accuracy, rework, or
       other measures. Discuss efficiency of the current process in terms of units per period of time, cost,
       excess byproducts or waste, or other quantifiable measure. Use existing performance measures
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                             7


     where possible, and describe the source and confidence level of any metrics developed over the
     course of the “AS-IS” process mapping/analysis.
     2.2.13.4. Provide a brief root cause analysis: Describe the root cause(s) of the problem or desired
     improvement that the investment decision is focused on. Describe the elements of the process (i.e.,
     training, organization, equipment, personnel, etc.) that are the underlying root cause(s) of the pro-
     cess weakness or problem. At this point is important to point out that occasionally a status quo sit-
     uation becomes unacceptable because it becomes contrary to new legislation or OSD or Air Force
     policy. In such cases the status quo should still be stated and its costs estimated as a baseline for
     calculating costs and potential savings, or additional funding needed for new alternatives. Also, an
     upgrade to the status quo may be one of the future alternatives to be considered.
  2.2.14. Future State Description - “To-be” : For each alternative considered, describe the future
  state of operations that the proposed investment decision will help achieve. Future state may also be
  thought of as the “To-Be” state, as compared to the current state or status quo. There is a separate “To
  Be” section for each alternative to the “to be” state considered.
     2.2.14.1. Briefly describe the alternative considered. If an alternative was considered but dis-
     missed as infeasible, discuss reasons for considering it infeasible. Note: cost alone is usually not a
     valid reason for infeasibility. If cost is a reason for not selecting an alternative, the cost must be
     shown (in other words, such an alternative must be developed, costed, and proven to be prohibi-
     tive, not merely dismissed from the onset as being infeasible due to expense).
     2.2.14.2. Follow the same outline as when describing the “as is” state (section 2.2.4.). Explain
     how this “to be” alternative operates, how it provides value to the organization, etc. But also com-
     pare it to the current “as is” method. What makes it better? How does this alternative relate to the
     other “to be” scenarios examined? Explain the alternative solutions considered and why the final
     submitted alternative is recommended over all the competing alternatives. Basically, for each
     alternative, include: a) a brief description of the alternative; b) estimated costs; c) estimated bene-
     fits; d) alternative pros; e) alternative cons; f) relative merits when compared to the other alterna-
     tives; and g) rationale for decision.
  2.2.15. Cost and Benefit Analysis : Up to this point, a narrative of the different alternatives has been
  provided with some mention of costs and benefits. At this section, the narratives are translated into
  quantitative data. For each alternative, calculate the expected financial return on the initiative includ-
  ing NPV, payback period, uniform annual cost, IRR and ROI against which differing alternatives can
  be evaluated. Business case benefits and total costs to the Government should be developed over the
  full life cycle of the project (development, procurement, operation, support and disposal – AFMAN
  65-506, Economic Analysis, Attachment 9) for each alternative. They should consider both tangible
  and intangible benefits and costs, as well as the strategic benefits to the Air Force from the investment
  decision. They should also address the consequences of doing nothing (Status Quo). For more detailed
  information on costs and benefits, including key concepts such as inflation, discounting and present
  value, and economic life of assets, see AFMAN 65-506, paragraphs 1.4 to 1.7 and Attachments 9-10,
  as well as AFI 65-502, Inflation.
     2.2.15.1. Methods for quantifying benefits : Costs are by their very nature quantifiable. Bene-
     fits may present a problem. Some benefits such as an operational or combat metric (Not Mission
     Capable Rate, Circular Error Probability, etc) are easy to quantify. Others, such as “troop morale”
     or “customer satisfaction” may be more difficult. This can be overcome by using polling or a focus
8                                                              AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


    group to generate scores. When trying to quantify areas that are not easily quantified, the impor-
    tant point to remember is to always be able to define the scores used. For example, morale could
    be rated as a 0 for does not improve morale, 1 for maintains current morale, or 2 for improves cur-
    rent morale. The larger the span of ratings, the greater the difficulty in explaining what improve-
    ments an alternative would need to move up a point in the ratings scale. Any number of potential
    scoring methodologies can be devised. However, an example of a situation to avoid is where one
    alternative is rated 18 our of 20 and another is rated 19 out of 20 without any accompanying defi-
    nition showing what made one alternative one point above the other.
    2.2.15.2. Methods for weighting benefits : Another concern is that not all benefits may be
    equally important to the decision maker. In addition to a rating scale, the analysis may need a
    weighting scale. For example, is the benefit of morale improvement equal to safety improvement?
    Is safety improvement equal to targeting accuracy? Just as in determining a rating scale, the
    weighting scale needs to be defined and not just be a random listing of numbers or percents. An
    example could be a 100% weight means the benefit is critical to success, a 75% weight indicates a
    benefit being above average in importance, while 50% shows moderate or importance, and 25%
    would mean the benefit below average importance.
    2.2.15.3. Methods for combining costs and benefits : Now that costs and benefits are quanti-
    fied, they need to be combined in a meaningful way. The easiest is to first examine the alternatives
    ranked by cost and then by benefit. If the costs are equal but the benefits are not, then the alterna-
    tive with the highest benefit would be picked. If the benefits between the alternatives are equal, the
    lowest cost solution would be chosen. However, most to all decisions will not be so easy. The typ-
    ical decision will involve a balancing of costs and benefits. At this point, the analyst has a total
    cost for each alternative and a weighted total for the sum of various quantifiable (processing error
    reduction, etc) and semi-quantifiable (morale scores based on surveys, etc) benefits. The simplest
    way to link costs and benefits at this point is to establish a ratio of costs to benefits. This allows the
    analyst to compare the amount of incremental benefit gained by each additional dollar spent on an
    alternative. If one alternative does not stand out at this point, the solution will be to examine the
    cost to benefit ratio by individual benefits. If the benefits examined across several alternatives are
    square foot work space area and reduction in processing errors, it may become apparent that errors
    are equally reduced across alternatives but one alternative provides a disproportionate amount of
    workspace for the dollars required (square feet per dollar) than the others. At the same time, the
    alternative with the greater square feet per dollar is the most expensive. The question becomes “is
    the added work space benefit worth spending the extra dollars?” There is no simple formula for
    arriving at a decision. Ultimately, at the end of the analysis, an alternative must be rank ordered
    higher than the others based upon a combination of the total cost, benefits, and (in some cases
    potentially) risks associated with that alternative. Risk is treated as a separate category for analysis
    starting in paragraph 2.2.8. While discussing costs, it is important to remember that the analysis
    must cover the lifecycle of the project. In other words, the costs must cover what is needed to
    implement the alternative (construction, acquisition, training, etc), as well as what is needed to
    sustain (utilities, annual maintenance, etc) the alternative and what is needed to dispose of the
    alternative (remove hazardous waste, etc), if there is a finite life to the alternative. More detail on
    this topic is provided in the paragraphs that follow.
    2.2.15.4. Life-cycle costs : Life-cycle costs (LCCs) are all the anticipated costs to the Govern-
    ment associated with a project or program alternative throughout its life and includes the cost of
    research and development, investment in mission and support equipment (hardware and software),
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               9


     initial inventories, training, data, facilities, etc., and the operating, support, and, where applicable,
     demilitarization, detoxification, long term waste storage, and disposal costs. All relevant resources
     required to achieve the stated objective throughout the alternative's useful life are to be shown in
     the analysis. Costs of each alternative which are required to meet the objective should be exhaus-
     tive. Costs should be carefully analyzed to determine whether or not they are included under the
     scope of the objective. Closely associated costs which do not contribute to an objective may be
     excluded. The DoD position is that all costs of each alternative should be identified. In practice it
     has been found that failing to identify all costs can easily lead to decisions being made on what in
     reality is incomplete and partial information. If particular costs in a BCA are judged to be very
     small and difficult to measure due to lack of data, then a discussion of such costs should be
     included in narrative format so that decision makers and reviewers will be aware of them. The spe-
     cific measure of life-cycle cost is the annual cost of the alternative discounted to its present value
     and summed over the entire economic life of that alternative; or, in other words, the present value
     of the total cost stream. Life-cycle costing provides logical and comprehensive information on
     programs and projects; its focus is on the total resource implications of program decisions, implic-
     itly considering the timing of expenditures. Compute life-cycle costs for each alternative:
         2.2.15.4.1. Pilot costs : Those costs of developing a prototype solution and implementing it at
         one or more sites for testing. These costs may include:
             2.2.15.4.1.1. Development, installation and modification of the system or process
             2.2.15.4.1.2. Training and lost productivity during learning
             2.2.15.4.1.3. Maintaining two separate systems during the pilot
             2.2.15.4.1.4. Program management to include oversight and measurement of desired
             changes
             2.2.15.4.1.5. Reversion to the old process if the pilot is unsuccessful
         2.2.15.4.2. Implementation costs: Implementation costs include all investment costs required
         to implement the alternative, which may include some or all of the following:
             2.2.15.4.2.1. Hardware, software, installation and integration with legacy systems
             2.2.15.4.2.2. Process development and modifications not discovered during the pilot
             2.2.15.4.2.3. Project management including evaluating staffing the new process
             2.2.15.4.2.4. Training, including lost productivity during learning
             2.2.15.4.2.5. Internal marketing to foster acceptance
             2.2.15.4.2.6. Acquisition of data (technical data) and licenses. This element needs to be
             considered as certain types of technical data (software code documentation, schematics,
             etc) are needed to ensure a competitive lifecycle support environment. If the USAF does
             not possess technical data, lifecycle support is, by default, limited to what the vendor pro-
             vides.
             2.2.15.4.2.7. Management of effects on human resources (e.g., hiring, relocation, retrain-
             ing to other capabilities, reduction-in-force)
             2.2.15.4.2.8. Termination of existing contracts
10                                                           AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


        2.2.15.4.3. Operational, maintenance, and sustainment costs: These costs represent the ongo-
        ing costs to operate the system or process and may include some or all of the following:
            2.2.15.4.3.1. Operations and maintenance
            2.2.15.4.3.2. Staffing and consultants
            2.2.15.4.3.3. On-going staff training
            2.2.15.4.3.4. Trouble-shooting and modifications as required
            2.2.15.4.3.5. Customer service and other transactions
            2.2.15.4.3.6. System upgrades and replacements over the life cycle
     2.2.15.5. Life Cycle Benefits : Benefits may fall into one of several categories and may be mon-
     etary or non-monetary. If costs exceed monetary benefits, other benefits must be clearly defined
     and describe why the proposal is worth the additional cost to the Air Force. All benefits should be
     defined for the entire life of the solution. When benefits cannot be quantified, include a narrative
     description of benefits. The various types of benefits may include:
        2.2.15.5.1. Cost savings should have an identifiable dollar value. That value may or may not
        translate into budget terms and should be so identified in the business case. All calculations,
        assumptions, and methodology used to identify the savings should be included. When address-
        ing manpower, use Air Force manpower standards as the baseline. Manpower and other cost
        data should be taken from AFI 65-503, Cost and Planning Factors, when possible. Savings
        fall into one of four categories:
            2.2.15.5.1.1. Budget savings include those funds, manpower or other resources that could
            be removed from the organization (or retained as an incentive) with no adverse impact on
            mission. These savings relate directly to a budget line or a historical expenditure rate that
            will cost less because of the new process or activity.
            2.2.15.5.1.2. Cost avoidance savings are benefits from actions that reduce or eliminate the
            need for an increase in manpower or cost and would be necessary if present management
            practices continued. These include such things as price increases, replacement of aging or
            obsolete equipment, overtime pay due to increased workload resulting from poorly func-
            tioning processes or equipment, etc.
            2.2.15.5.1.3. Opportunity cost is the cost of pursuing one alternative versus another.
            Opportunity cost can include, for example, the cost imposed by one activity on another by
            diverting an existing asset from the latter to the former. If use of an existing asset would
            result in a cash outlay for some other project or activity, a cost which the government
            would not have otherwise incurred, that value should be included in the analysis as the cost
            of using that asset. Another example, if the Air Force decides to build a hospital on vacant
            land that it owns, the opportunity cost is another purpose, such as locating a different func-
            tion’s facility on that same parcel of land with construction funds instead. In building the
            hospital, the Air Force has forgone the ability to build an office building or hangar that was
            being planned, on that land.
            2.2.15.5.1.4. Productivity gains will allow fuller use of personnel or capital assets to
            achieve higher value with the same or reduced resources. This form of savings may, for
            example, result in fewer overtime hours that may or may not translate into actual budget
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                        11


             savings. In some cases, funds or manpower may be redirected to other activities or reduced
             work hours.
         2.2.15.5.2. Strategic organizational benefits may be more difficult to quantify or may be
         unquantifiable/intangible in some situations, but are often very critical when developing a
         business case. These benefits may be very important to the organization because of law, policy,
         or strategic objectives that direct the result or because of other organizational goals. Some
         examples of strategic benefits include:
             2.2.15.5.2.1. Attainment of the President’s Management Agenda, or most recent Presi-
             dent’s, SECDEF’s, SECAF’s, CSAF’s, or Commander’s initiatives
             2.2.15.5.2.2. Furtherance of the Air Force transformation goals
             2.2.15.5.2.3. Improving the effectiveness of operations resulting in higher customer satis-
             faction ratings
             2.2.15.5.2.4. A compression of average process cycle time by a factor of 4
             2.2.15.5.2.5. Work processes and workload that enable our people to accomplish routine
             organizational missions within a 40-50 hour workweek
             2.2.15.5.2.6. Empowerment of personnel and enrichment of job functions
             2.2.15.5.2.7. Increased morale
             2.2.15.5.2.8. A 20% shift in business operations dollars and people to war fighting opera-
             tions and new or modern war fighting systems
             2.2.15.5.2.9. Progress on organizational strategic objectives
             2.2.15.5.2.10. Development of strategic partnerships
             2.2.15.5.2.11. Having a competitive support environment between several support con-
             tractors and organic capability
         2.2.15.5.3. Intangible Benefits: Tangible but non-financial benefits may have the least cost
         visibility, but may nonetheless be very important to the organization and need to be addressed.
         They may include:
             2.2.15.5.3.1. Improved customer service
             2.2.15.5.3.2. Improved internal and external communications
             2.2.15.5.3.3. Improved management information
             2.2.15.5.3.4. Improved operational information
             2.2.15.5.3.5. Improved quality and accuracy of documents (reduced errors)
             2.2.15.5.3.6. Reduced cycle time (improved effectiveness)
  2.2.16. Recommendation: Explain the recommended alternative solution, and why it is recom-
  mended over all the competing alternatives. Make reference to each rejected alternative and how it
  compares to the recommended alternative in costs and benefits, pros and cons, relative merits. Give a
  rationale for the recommended alternative. Tasks within your explanation of the rationale for the rec-
  ommendation include:
12                                                             AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


     2.2.16.1. Describe the proposed solution. Discuss the problem the initiative will solve and why
     this is considered a good solution, related to the discussion of the current process in paragraph
     2.2.4. Discuss whether this is a final solution, or if follow-on projects are necessary to achieve full
     benefits.
     2.2.16.2. Describe the approach. Summarize how you went about solving or making progress on
     the problem. Did you use simulation, analytic models, prototype construction, or analysis of field
     data for an actual product? What was the extent of your analysis effort (did you look at one appli-
     cation program or a hundred programs in twenty different programming languages)? What impor-
     tant variables did you control, ignore, or measure?
     2.2.16.3. Summarize best practices research and conclusions. Usually recommended alternatives
     should reflect the best practices available in the business world or the government. Summarize
     your best practice research, the best practices observed in other governmental or commercial orga-
     nizations and why they are better than the current process. Explain if there are any limitations on
     the Air Force implementing the best practice available due to laws, regulations or DoD policy.
     Include performance measures such as cost, effectiveness and efficiency to support your case.
     Compare the current Air Force process to these best practices and describe the amount of change
     required to match or exceed a logically selected benchmark practice, industry, or organization.
     2.2.16.4. Describe the users of the transformed process output and why they value that output.
     Highlight the key functionalities, requirements and benefits to each user or customer. Why is this
     output better for the implementing organization, its stakeholders, its customers, or the Air Force in
     general? Does the transformed process offer better decision support to commanders? Do all users
     derive the same benefits, or are there variations? Compare and contrast the transformed process
     with the “as-is” or status quo.
     2.2.16.5. Describe how the new process will work, including process maps at the level of detail
     necessary to support this explanation. Explain the differences in this process from the “as-is” pro-
     cess.
     2.2.16.6. Describe the personnel resources required at each stage of implementation and sustain-
     ment, as well as any organizational changes that may be required. If support will be by contract,
     describe the type of support and estimate the cost and type of contract. If any of the work will be
     performed by contract, discuss the risk of strikes that may disrupt performance and a contingency
     plan for continuity of operations during a short or extended strike.
     2.2.16.7. Funding : Identify the amount of funding required for each phase of the recommended
     alternative (pilot, implement, and sustainment), identify the source for these funds, and current
     funding status. Be sure you know, and account for, any restrictions associated with these funding
     sources. Your funding totals should reconcile to the cost estimate. The cost estimate provided the
     “price” of the alternative. This section merely breaks that resource need out by budget appropria-
     tion. Explain briefly the initiative’s funding strategy. Include:
        2.2.16.7.1. What is the amount of funding from existing or previously submitted budgets for
        the existing operation that could be used for the new proposed operation?
        2.2.16.7.2. What is the amount of new funding, if any, needed to be requested, by appropria-
        tion or major budget account?
        2.2.16.7.3. What is the rationale for requesting funds from these sources?
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                              13


         2.2.16.7.4. What are any limitations on these funding sources?
         2.2.16.7.5. Will proposed funding require other existing or planned efforts or programs to go
         unfunded or have budgeted amounts reduced?
         2.2.16.7.6. What is the effect of funding impacts on organizations other than the OPR for the
         function or the organization proposing the new way of doing business?
         2.2.16.7.7. What is the risk of availability of funding source(s)?
  2.2.17. Sensitivity Analysis and Risk Assessment: It is important to identify and analyze risks to
  determine which risks present the greatest threat to the initiative’s successful outcome and inform
  senior leaders of risks to the proposed course of action as part of the decision making process. Identify
  the risks, impacts, and potential mitigating strategies for the proposed plan of action. This should
  include an analysis on the impact to the business case if key assumptions do not hold. Risks may
  include technology that does not become available as predicted, lack of funding or other resources,
  lack of a workforce with requisite skills, etc. For each risk, assess the likelihood of that risk occurring,
  the potential impact on the project and an approach to overcome or lessen the impact of the risk should
  it occur. Also, key variables should be analyzed to see how sensitive the recommended alternative is
  to changes in these key variables. Key variables to analyze include discount rate, inflation rate, prices,
  labor costs, and any variable the OPR judges to be a key player in the operation of the proposed alter-
  native. Consult AFMAN 65-506, para 1.8, for additional guidance on sensitivity analysis. For each
  identified risk, address the following:
     2.2.17.1. Were all phases and aspects of the initiative taken into account during the risk identifi-
     cation process?
     2.2.17.2. Has the likelihood of changes to key variables been assessed and variables changed in
     the analysis so that the sensitivity of the decision to changes in key variables is clear?
     2.2.17.3. Has the exposure of each identified risk been evaluated?
     2.2.17.4. Has a mitigation strategy been identified for each identified risk?
     2.2.17.5. Has a contingency strategy been defined for each identified risk?
     2.2.17.6. Has a trigger been established for each contingency strategy?
     2.2.17.7. Does the proposed initiative include tasks for active monitoring for risks?
     2.2.17.8. Is there a process for tracking and reporting on risks?
  2.2.18. Change Management Plan : For the recommended alternative only, provide a change man-
  agement plan. A Change Management Plan is developed to manage the organizational change that is
  associated with implementing a new initiative. A well drafted change management plan should dis-
  cuss any cultural changes required, shared visions between stakeholders, what necessitates the
  change, expected stakeholder resistances, leadership buy-in, communication strategies, and possible
  infrastructure changes. The plan is based on effective marketing of the project and the building of a
  partnership between the project management team and the user community. The plan should contain
  the following major elements:
     2.2.18.1. Stakeholder Action Plan : Most proposed actions involve stakeholders, those who
     have an interest in a requirement or the means of achieving it. For the proposed alternative only,
     provide a stakeholder action plan. If the investment decision impacts stakeholders, address how
14                                                            AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


     the stakeholders will be informed, involved, convinced or otherwise engaged in the new process to
     gain their support. It is important to remember that, depending on the process being changed,
     immediate stakeholders may be the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
     (ANG). If ANG and AFRC personnel rely on a process or automated system operated by active
     duty forces, they may very well be a stakeholder and the impact to their organization must be con-
     sidered. In addition, changing business processes affecting civilian personnel administration may
     require added analysis considering the union as a stakeholder. The critical point to keep in mind is
     to not overlook potential stakeholders in the process being changed. For each stakeholder, address
     the following:
        2.2.18.1.1. What are their interests in the action plan?
        2.2.18.1.2. Why should they be involved or to what extent?
        2.2.18.1.3. Do they concur on the recommended alternative for the new way of business oper-
        ation?
        2.2.18.1.4. What are any concerns they may have about the proposed alternative?
        2.2.18.1.5. Were they represented in the development of the business case? If yes, how? If no,
        why not?
        2.2.18.1.6. What might this stakeholder contribute to the implementation or planning process?
     2.2.18.2. Communications plan: Communication is a major component of any successful
     project. Without effective communication, key stakeholders in a project may miss out on vital
     information and may not understand why change is needed. Customers might not be aware of the
     plans for a new way of doing business, and may raise concerns about how the proposed alternative
     would meet their needs. The other military services, DFAS, or the Joint Staff may need to be
     informed of the new way of doing business. Also, oversight groups such as OSD, OMB, or Con-
     gressional staff may need to be informed of the new way of doing business, through the budget
     formulation process if not by any other means. In some cases OSD or Joint Staff coordination or
     approval may be needed before adopting the new way of business, or Congressional Committees
     or Subcommittees may need to approve it. The best way to approach communication is to develop
     a clearly planned approach or strategy. For the proposed alternative only, provide a communica-
     tions plan. Address the means, methods and messages, including who will issue messages, along
     with a schedule for delivery, to explain the initiative to stakeholders and other parties impacted by
     the proposed new way of doing business (Table 2.1.).
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                                        15


Table 2.1. Communications Plan
    Target Audience/          Objective          Communication         Who to Action?      By When?         Costs?
   Stakeholder Group                                Tools
Identify the Target        What do you          What                   Who will be       When must the What are the
Audience by considering    intend to            communication          responsible for   action be     costs associated
the following:             communicate to       methods/tools are      implementing      implemented? with each
                           the stakeholder(s)   most appropriate for   each action?                    action?
  •    Who will benefit
                           groups?              the stakeholder(s)
       from the project?
                                                groups?
                          What are the key
  •   Who are the Key
                          points           e.g. electronic,
      Stakeholders?
                          stakeholder(s)   verbal written.
  •    Who are the        groups need to
       stakeholder groups understand and
       and the target     act upon?
       audience within
       them?

       2.2.18.3. Training Plan. Provide a training plan for the proposed alternative only. The Training
       Plan describes the strategies, activities and tasks necessary to provide the individuals or organiza-
       tions that will implement the new way of doing business the skills necessary to perform the new
       initiative successfully. The training plan helps to ensure that project outcomes are successfully
       achieved. The key to effective training and successful project implementation is to start the plan-
       ning process early. If training needs are not considered until late in the implementation process,
       there may not be enough time to effectively prepare staff to implement the new process, or to bud-
       get or contract for needed training. The training plan includes the following:
           2.2.18.3.1. A description of the scope of the training.
           2.2.18.3.2. A description of the training objectives.
           2.2.18.3.3. The training strategy.
           2.2.18.3.4. Background information such as a description of the desired skills outcome and a
           high-level overview of the curriculum.
           2.2.18.3.5. The training requirements such as the required skills, the audience(s), individuals
           or positions needing specific training, and the required time frame.
           2.2.18.3.6. The training roles and responsibilities.
           2.2.18.3.7. A method for evaluating the training.
           2.2.18.3.8. Existing sources for training.
           2.2.18.3.9. Training resources: any additional or future resources that may be a source for
           training.
           2.2.18.3.10. Costs of training (also should be included in rollup cost of Section 2.2.6.1).
           2.2.18.3.11. Any constraints or limitations affecting the training.
           2.2.18.3.12. A description of the training environment.
           2.2.18.3.13. A description of the training materials.
16                                                               AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


         2.2.18.3.14. A course outline.
         2.2.18.3.15. A log for keeping track of who has received training.
         2.2.18.3.16. A process for updating the training materials.
         2.2.18.3.17. A recommendation on whether training should be accomplished in-house or by
         contractors.
         2.2.18.3.18. Any budget implications of the proposed training.
     2.2.18.4. Implementation or Action Plan : Provide an implementation or action plan for the rec-
     ommended alternative only. With a well thought out, high level implementation or action plan, the
     project manager will be able to communicate and coordinate the tasks necessary for a successful
     transition throughout pilot, implementation and sustainment phases. Implementation plans should
     have specific events tied to specific, achievable milestones that factor in technological, cost, and
     schedule risk. Identify the type of approach to implementing the preferred alternative, for example
     one large project, a number of smaller projects or a combination of both. The breakdown of the
     projects within this strategy can also be included where the 'manageable chunks' or phases for
     each project have been identified. Deployment of complex projects or systems in modular units
     may reduce the risk of the failure of the new way of doing business. OMB has directed this
     approach for large information technology systems. Holding a walkthrough of the implementation
     or action plan with all stakeholders is a good way to verify that all necessary tasks are accounted
     for, are in their proper sequence, and are assigned to appropriate organizations or individuals.
     BCA preparers must make sure the implementation plan is consistent with scheduled costs and
     budgets elsewhere in the BCA. When developing the implementation or action plan, consider the
     following:
         2.2.18.4.1. Have dates been applied to all tasks?
         2.2.18.4.2. Are the sequencing and timing of all the tasks correct?
         2.2.18.4.3. Is there an assigned person or organization responsible for completing each task?
         2.2.18.4.4. Have dependencies between tasks been identified and communicated to the
         resources affected by the dependency?
         2.2.18.4.5. Has the plan been reviewed with all impacted stakeholders and resources assigned
         to the implementation or action tasks?
         2.2.18.4.6. Has the initiative schedule been reviewed and updated based on the tasks and time-
         frames identified in the implementation plan?
         2.2.18.4.7. Is the implementation plan congruent with the funding profile developed in para
         2.2.16.7.?
         2.2.18.4.8. Have other ongoing projects or processes been reviewed for possible changes
         based on the contents of this implementation plan?
     2.2.18.5. Key Performance Measures and Outcomes: A key aspect of any initiative is the abil-
     ity to track results of the initiative over time. Determining performance measures and outcomes
     (metrics) at the beginning of an initiative helps assure that the initiative stays true to the initial pur-
     pose and priorities. Defining the desired outcomes or acceptance criteria at the beginning of the
     initiative also clarifies the initiative’s scope. For the recommended alternative only, provide Key
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                           17


     Performance Measures and Outcomes. Using performance measures establishes whether the ini-
     tiative did indeed succeed, and provides a starting point for developing future lessons learned. If
     the business process will change dramatically due to the initiative, then it's especially important to
     choose a basis of comparison that won't change. Some common measures to consider are program
     cost savings (requires baseline), business process time savings (requires baseline) amount of use
     that project outputs get (number of website hits, etc), change in number of customer complaints
     (requires baseline), and nature of customer feedback (may require a survey, both before and after
     implementation). Each proposed metric should address the following:
        2.2.18.5.1. Do the performance measures directly target an initiative’s objective?
        2.2.18.5.2. If the objective of a business operation has several parts, do the performance mea-
        sures cover all parts of the objective?
        2.2.18.5.3. Does the measure use data that's readily available?
        2.2.18.5.4. If the measure uses data not readily available, what must be done to arrange to
        develop or receive the data, and is preparing to receive it feasible and manageable?
        2.2.18.5.5. How long will it take for changes to come about or to be able to capture meaning-
        ful data?
        2.2.18.5.6. Has baseline data been captured (necessary if changes are to be measured)?
        2.2.18.5.7. Is the basis for comparison consistent? (is it comparing apples to apples?)
        2.2.18.5.8. Have timeframes been considered?
        2.2.18.5.9. Are possible seasonal variations in data accounted for in the timeframe or report-
        ing periods?
18                                                             AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                               Chapter 3

                    INFORMATION COLLECTION, RECORDS, AND FORMS

3.1. Information Collections : No information collections are created by this publication.

3.2. Records : The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363) and disposed of in
accordance with the AFRIMS RDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

3.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
     3.3.1. Adopted Forms : AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for
     Change of Publication.
     3.3.2. Prescribed Forms : No prescribed forms are implemented in this publication.



                                               JOHN H. GIBSON, II,
                                               Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                               (Financial Management and Comptroller)
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                   19


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 32-1089 – Air Force Military Construction and Family Housing Economic Analysis Guide, 1
August 1996
AFI 33-103 – Requirements Development and Processing, 18 March 1999
AFI 63-107 – Integrated Product Support Planning and Assessment, 10 November 2004
AFI 65-501 – Economic Analysis, 10 November 2004
AFI 65-502 – Inflation, 21 January 1994
AFI 65-503 – Cost and Planning Factors, 4 February 1994
AFMAN 65-506 – Economic Analysis, 10 November 2004
AFI 65-509 – Business Case Analysis, 7 December 2007
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records (will become AFMAN 33-363), 31 August 1994
AFRIMS RDS, https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm
Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1401(3)) – Information Technology Management Reform Act,
1996
DOD Directive 5000.1 – The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DOD Instruction 5000.2 – Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DOD Directive 5000.4M – Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures, December 1992
DOD Instruction 7041.3 – Economic Analysis for Decision Making, 18 October 1972
Office of Aerospace Studies Analysis Handbook – A Guide for Performing Analysis Studies:
For Analysis of Alternatives or Functional Solution Analyses, July 2004
OMB Circular A-11 Section 300 – Planning, Budgeting, Acquisition, and Management of Capital Assets,
2 July 2007
OMB Circular A-76 – Performance of Commercial Activities, 29 May 2003
OMB Circular A-94 – Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit-Cost Analysis of Federal Programs, 29
Oct 1992
The President's Management Agenda, Fiscal Year 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRPA—Air Force Real Property Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
20                                                              AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


BCA—Business Case Analysis
CIO—Chief Information Officer
EA—Economic Analysis
EUL—Enhanced Use Lease
FSO—Financial Services Office
FTE—Full Time Equivalent
IRR—Internal Rate of Return
IT—Information Technology
LCC—Life Cycle Cost
NPV—Net Present Value
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
ROI—Return on Investment

Terms
Alternative—An approach or program that is another possible way of fulfilling an objective, mission, or
requirement. The status quo, or an upgrade to the status quo, is usually an alternative to a proposed course
of action.
Benefits—Objective measures of an alternative’s value to the United States. When a dollar value cannot
be placed on comparable program or project benefits, other objective measures may be available and
useful for comparing alternatives. Monetary benefits are receipts of the United States due, e.g., to sale of
physical assets, or reductions in costs of other programs due to the action of the program under analysis.
Benefits Analysis—Analysis to identify, measure and evaluate the benefits for each proposed alternative.
Business Case Analysis—A business decision document that identifies alternatives and presents
convincing economic and technical arguments for implementing alternatives to achieve stated
organizational objective/imperative(s).
Capital project (investment)—means the acquisition of a capital asset and the management of that asset
through its life-cycle after the initial acquisition. Capital projects (investments) may consist of several
useful segments.
Commercial or Industrial Activities—Activities that provide products or services obtainable (or
obtained) from a commercial source. Commercial activities are operated by Air Force military or civilian
personnel, or by contractor personnel.
Constant Dollar Value or Costs or Benefits—Value, cost, or benefits measured based on constant
purchasing power of the dollar. That is, constant dollar analyses are done from the perspective of a
constant general price level, though relative prices may vary.
Constraints—Limitations of any kind to be considered in planning, programming, scheduling,
implementing or evaluating programs.
Cost-Benefit Analysis or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.—See Economic Analysis.
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                            21


Cost-Effective Alternative—That alternative, which, when compared to all other alternatives: a)
Maximizes benefits when costs for each alternative are equal, or b) Minimizes costs when benefits are
equal for each alternative.
Current Dollar Value or Costs or Benefits—Value, cost, or benefit measures which include estimates
of all expected future price changes. In current dollar analyses prices, costs, and other dollar-denominated
measures are increased based both on anticipated year-to-year changes in the general price level and on
anticipated changes in relative prices.
Discount Rate—The parameter used to translate future costs or benefits into present worth (see "Present
Value" below). It is a measure of the time value of money.
Discounting—The process of using the discount rate to determine the present value of costs and benefits.
(Elements of cost and benefit streams are multiplied by their corresponding discount factors to yield
discounted costs and benefits.)
Economic Analysis—A systematic approach to the problem of choosing how to use scarce resources. It
reveals the present value of the monetary costs and benefits associated with all alternatives under
consideration, and provides as accurate and complete a picture as possible of nonmonetary costs and
benefits.
Economic Life—The period of time over which the benefits to be gained from a project may reasonably
be expected to accrue to the DOD. It is the shortest of physical, technological or mission life.
Effectiveness—Ability of a project to meet objectives.
Efficiency—The amount of output per unit of input. Alternatively, it is the quality whereby one
alternative uses less input per unit of output than other alternatives.
Expected Annual Cost—The expected annual dollar value of resources, goods, and services required to
establish and carry out a program or project.
Feasibility Study—A study of the applicability or practicability of a proposed action or plan.
Full-Time Equivalent (FTE)—The staffing of federal civilian employee positions, expressed in terms of
annual productive work hours, 1,776. FTEs may reflect civilian positions that are not necessarily staffed
at the time of public announcement, and staffing of FTE positions may fluctuate during a streamlined or
standard competition. FTEs do not include military personnel, uniformed services, or contract support.
Historical Cost—The cost of any item, based on actual dollar (or equivalent) outlay, ascertained after the
fact.
Imputed Value—The value assigned to actions or transactions that are not explicitly priced (e.g.,
transfers of assets between government programs). Estimates of the dollar value of imputed costs can be
obtained from estimating the undepreciated (i.e., remaining) value of assets, if those assets have an
alternate use.
Induced Costs—Those costs that execution of a given project or program alternative impose on another
Air Force or government program. For example, if a proposal to move an activity into facilities currently
occupied by a second activity causes expenditures by the second activity for real property acquisition or
improvement, then those expenditures are induced costs that should be taken into account in the decision
to move the first activity.
22                                                             AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


Internal Rate of Return (IRR)—The interest rate at which you could borrow money to finance a capital
investment which generates savings such that the dollars invested in the project break even with the
dollars generated in savings. The strict technical definition is the discount rate which causes the net
present value (NPV) of all investments in a project to equal the NPV of all savings generated by that same
project.
Investment Costs—Costs required to introduce a new project, program, or capability into operational
use, or to provide major modifications to an existing project, program, or capability. For cost analysis
purposes investment costs may cross budget accounts and are not necessarily limited to acquisition
accounts such as 3010, 3020, etc.; rather they include any expenditure required to bring a project,
program, or capability to a situation of readiness to operate. Investment costs may include RDT&E, for
example.
Life-Cycle Cost—The total cost to the government for a system over its full life, including the cost of
development, procurement, operation, support, and disposal.
Mission Life—The time period of program use or operation.
Net Present Value (NPV)—the future stream of benefits and costs converted into equivalent values
today. This is done by assigning monetary values to benefits and costs, discounting future benefits and
costs using an appropriate discount rate, and subtracting the sum total of discounted costs from the sum
total of discounted benefits.
Objective Statement—A statement of what is ultimately to be accomplished. In economic analysis
objectives are stated such that there is no bias toward a particular alternative.
Opportunity Cost—The cost of a resource, measured in terms of its value in the highest alternate use.
Output—Goods and services produced or mission accomplished.
Physical Life—The estimated time that a machine, piece of equipment, or building can be used in the
function for which it was procured or constructed. An initial estimate of physical life may require
adjustment if significant alterations or conversions are subsequently proposed or effected.
The President's Management Agenda—An aggressive strategy to achieve the Administration's policy
and program goals through reform of federal management and improved program performance.
Present Value—The net value of a flow of funds, expressed as a single sum of dollars; effectively, the
sum of money equivalent to all current and future flows. Calculated by multiplying the net cost figure for
each year by the corresponding discount factor, and summing the results.
Program Evaluation—Analysis of ongoing actions to determine how well the stated objectives are being
accomplished. Program evaluation studies entail a comparison of actual with intended performance.
Real Property—Land, buildings, structures, utility systems, improvements, and appurtenances thereto.
Includes equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures (such as heating systems) but
not movable equipment (such as plant equipment).
Recurring Costs—Expenses for personnel, material consumed in use, overhead support services, and
other items incurred on a repeating basis.
Residual Value—The expected value of an asset at any point in time before the end of its economic life.
Return on Investment (ROI)—A figure or measure of merit used to help make capital investment
decisions. ROI is calculated by considering the annual benefit divided by the investment amount.
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                              23


Risk—The likelihood that some assumption or estimate is wrong. Sometimes used synonymously with
"uncertainty," though uncertainty can be described by a probability distribution.
Sensitivity Analysis—Examination of the effects obtained by changing the direction and magnitude of
assumptions embodied in an analysis or key variables or factors in an analysis.
Sunk Cost—The sum of past expenditures or irrevocably committed funds related to a project. Such
costs are generally not relevant to decision making as they reflect previous rather than present choices.
Technological Life—The estimated number of years before technology will make the existing or
proposed equipment or facilities obsolete.
Terminal Value—The expected value of assets at the end of their economic life.
Uniform Annual Cost—The average cost per year for a given alternative. It is calculated by dividing the
total net present cost (for the full-time life cycle) by the sum of the discount factors of the years in which
benefits accrue (economic life).
24                                                               AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                               Attachment 2

      REQUEST FOR WAIVER FROM A BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS REQUIREMENT


Though required by _________________, a business case analysis was not prepared for this project for
the following reasons:


____ a. Project cost or benefits to be derived do not warrant the level of effort required to prepare a full
and complete analysis. The factors supporting this decision are attached.


____ b. There is only one method possible to accomplish the objective. Documentation of this condition
is attached.


____ c. The project and the method to accomplish it was directed by ______ as shown in the attached doc-
umentation.


____ d. Project results from specially directed legislation which directs the method of accomplishment, as
documented in the attachment.


____ e. The project corrects problems or violations involving health, safety, fire protection, pollution, or
security which are serious, urgent and hazardous.


____ f. Other (List specific reasons why analysis was not prepared).


Coordination at base/installation level:


Base Level Financial Analysis:                                                (Signature)
                                                                  (Name/Office Symbol/DSN/Date)


Concurrence by Base Functional Office:                                        (Signature)
                                                                  (Name/Office Symbol/DSN/Date)


Concurrence by other Base Level Office:                                       (Signature)
 (As Applicable)                                                  (Name/Office Symbol/DSN/Date)
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                       25


Concurrence by Base Level FM:                 (Signature)
                                    (Name/Office Symbol/DSN/Date)


Coordination at MAJCOM Levels:


MAJCOM Financial Analysis Office:             (Signature)
                                    (Name/Office Symbol/DSN/Date)


MAJCOM Functional Office                      (Signature)
                                    (Name/Office Symbol/DSN/Date)
/
Other MAJCOM Office                           (Signature)
    (As Applicable)                 (Name/Office Symbol/DSN/Date)
26                                                                AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                                   Attachment 3

                                BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS CHECKLIST


A4.1. This attachment provides a guide for those responsible for preparing or reviewing business case
analyses. All resource requirements in the Air Force compete for available resources. For priority ranking
of competing requirements, consistency in evaluation is necessary. This checklist is designed to enhance
consistency in BCA products.


1. Executive Summary:
         a. Does the executive summary adequately state the problem, study objective, and significant cri-
teria, assumptions and constraints?
         b. Are the feasible alternatives clearly identified and differences explained?
         c. Is the recommended alternative adequately supported without reference to detail study content?


2. Objective or Problem Statement:
         a. Is the objective clear and specific?
         b. Is the objective realistic?
         c. Are any feasible alternative solutions excluded due to a bias in the objective statement?


3. Assumptions:
         a. Are all assumptions recognized and identified?
         b. Are the assumptions realistic and properly supported?
         c. Are assumptions used only when actual facts are unavailable?
         d. Are assumptions unnecessarily restrictive thereby preventing consideration of feasible alterna-
tives?
         e. Do assumptions include economic life and future changes in operations requirements?
         f. Are key facts, ground rules, laws, DoD or Air Force policies, and other constraints stated?


4. Alternatives:
         a. Are all feasible alternatives considered?
         b. Were alternatives rejected before a full analysis was adequately documented?
       c. Are the alternatives significantly different as opposed to superficial restructuring of a single
course of action?
         d. Was the status quo used as the baseline for alternative evaluation?
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                                 27


       e. Were other government agencies' capabilities to provide a product or service considered, where
applicable?
       f. Were contracting alternatives considered (including public-private competition under OMB Cir-
cular A-76 or termination and consolidation of existing contracts)?


5. Cost Analysis:
         a. Are all government direct and indirect costs included for each alternative?
       b. Do investment costs include transportation, installation, support, and training costs incurred
before operational and building occupancy dates, etc.?
        c. Are personnel costs all inclusive; that is, specific skill levels, fringe benefits, overtime and shift
differentials, etc.? Are personnel costs broken out by rank/grade, number of employees in each category,
etc?
         d. Are future equipment replacement costs included as investments as opposed to operations
costs?
         e. Are available asset values considered and are such values adequately documented?
         f. Are cost collection and aggregation methods correct?
         g. Are estimating relationships and procedures identified and properly supported?
         h. Are program or project costs expressed in constant dollars?
         i. Where inflation or cost escalation is used, have the factors been identified and validated?
         j. Are cash flows discounted at the proper discount rate?
         k. Are cost and savings schedules realistic?


6. Benefit Analysis:
         a. Have all project results, outputs, benefits, or yields been included?
         b. Are the benefits identified in measurable terms where possible?
         c. Are benefit measuring techniques properly defined and supported?
        d. Is benefit priority or ranking criteria clearly stated and used in the evaluation? Is any weighting
scale consistently and reasonably applied?
         e. Are negative results or outputs identified and adequately evaluated?
         f. Are secondary benefits (not related to the objective) identified?
         g. Do the benefits relate to the program and project objective?
         h. Are all cost savings represented as a negative cost rather than as a benefit?
         i. Are the benefits suitably tabulated, graphed, etc.?
28                                                               AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


7. Comparison Selection Evaluation:
       a. Were alternative selection criteria applied consistently?
       b. Are cost and benefit data suitably displayed to accurately depict relationships?
       c. Were benefits quantified in support of the recommendation, and, if so, was it presented in the
executive summary? (not always possible to quantify benefits)
       d. Are the alternatives compared to a common baseline (minimum requirements level)?
        e. Were alternative comparison techniques suitable for the program project being evaluated; that
is, present value, payback period, uniform annual cost, etc.?
       f. Was a specific course of action recommended?
       g. Does analysis data clearly support the recommendation?
       h. Are significant differences between the recommended and other alternatives clearly identified?


8. Risk and Sensitivity Analyses:
       a. Were the effects of possible changes to the objective requirements evaluated?
       b. Would the recommended alternative remain the same if key assumptions or criteria were varied
within a feasible range?
       c. Was the project schedule evaluated for both operational and cost impacts (slippages, advance-
ments)?


9. Change Management Plan
       a. Does the change management plan detail all the steps that must be taken to move from the as-is
business situation to the proposed to-be business situation?
       b. Do the plans for change management address all areas of change that could have a significant
impact on adopting the new business plan?
        c. Do the planned changes take into account planned changes in other parts of Air Force opera-
tions that would affect the proposed business plan?


10. Stakeholders Action Plan:
       a. Have the views of all stakeholders in the business operation been considered?
        b. Have all potential stakeholders been identified and considered to include the AFRC, ANG,
Union, other services (if selected alternative impacts joint operations), and local foreign nationals (if
selected alternative impacts status of forces agreement)?
       c. Are there any actions needed by the various stakeholders in the business operation that have not
been included?
AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                                 29


11. Communication Plan:
       a. Does the communication plan show a reasonable plan for spreading the word about the pro-
posed business process to all affected parties?


12. Training Plan
      a. Have all the types of training needed to prepare the workforce or the customer population for the
new way of doing business been identified?
       b. Have the objectives of each type of training been identified?
       c. Have sources of training been identified?
       d. Are any usual sources of training missing?
       e. Has the timeline for development and delivery of training been identified?
       f. Has funding for training been included, if needed, in the funding plan?


13. Implementation or Action Plan
       a. Is there an implementation plan that spells out in sufficient detail the actions different offices or
organizations must take to implement the new way of doing business?
        b. Does the plan include reasonable steps that are sequenced in proper order to get from the “as-is”
to the “to-be” state of business?
c. Do steps in the action plan acknowledge any barriers to implementation and allow time and a reason-
able plan of action to overcome implementation barriers?


14. Key Performance Measures and Outcomes
        a. Have performance measures and outcomes been identified which are appropriate for monitoring
the business performance under the proposed new business plan?


15. Documentation:
       a. Are the costs thoroughly document in appendixes so an independent reviewer may replicate it?
A key element of a good BCA is sufficient documentation of methods and sources used so that a reader
not familiar with the analysis could arrive at essentially the same result. Without documentation, the
BCA’s appeal for acceptance is based on faith in the authority of the issuing agency.
        b. Is it possible to trace costs to their basic inputs, units of measure, sources derived from (web
site, OPR, etc), and as of date for any special rates or factors?
       c. If costs, assumptions, or other input to the estimate is based upon expert opinion, does the sup-
porting documentation include the individual's office symbol, email address, and phone number?


16. Coordination:
30                                                          AFMAN65-510 22 SEPTEMBER 2008


     a. Has coordination of all participating offices and organizations been obtained?
