AFMAN 65-116, V1, IC-4, DEFENSE JOINT MILITARY PAY SYSTEM ACTIVE
COMPONENT (DJMS-AC) FSO PROCEDURES, 1 April 2007

4 September 2009

*PURPOSE
This publication provides guidance and procedures for active duty military pay. It applies to the
Financial Services Office (FSO) at each Air Force installation, including bases that have cut over
to the Air Force Financial Services Center (AFFSC) for processing, and the AFFSC interactions
with the FSOs.

*SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This IC incorporates several changes provided by the various offices of primary responsibility
(OPRs) as well as administrative changes needed to get the manual up to date. Examples
include: Providing additional guidance concerning terms used in chapter 41, updating JFTR
references in chapter 29, and updating procedures relating to casualties.


*1.2.1.4. Audit. The FSO, deputy, or a designated supervisor obtains the latest PRA listing
produced by the Off-line Reporting Control System. For members not appearing on the Offline
Reporting Control System list, request processing of an SC04 to establish the PRA indicator.
Obtain a current copy of the Master Military Pay Account (MMPA) or review the computer screen
of the MMPA for each individual on the PRA roster. Although all relatives of members or
employees are entered on the roster, only members serviced by the local input station identifier
(ISI) are subject to a PRA audit. In addition to the semiannual requirement, PRA audits are
required any time a member, subject to PRA control, departs PCS, is relieved of duties, separates,
or retires. Proceed with PRA audit as follows:

*2.2.11.5. Collections. Local FSOs make collections for indebtedness, temporary lodging
allowance (TLA) overpayments and canceled and undeliverable checks. The FSO reports
collections, together with necessary identifying information, to DFAS daily. See chapter 69
through 72 for procedures.

*2.2.11.6. Underpayment or Overpayment Vouchers of $10 or Less. The cost to process over or
underpayment vouchers of $10 or less exceeds the amount to be collected or disbursed. Do not
prepare vouchers for over or underpayments of $10 or less. Per DoDFMR Vol 5, chapter 11,
paragraph 110208, if a disbursement to a payee is overpaid by $10 or less, there is no requirement
to collect the overpayment. Similarly, if a disbursement to a payee is underpaid by $10 or less, do
not issue a supplemental payment unless specifically requested by the payee.

*2.3.1. Source Documents. Hard copy source documents are mailed to the Denver Federal
Records Center (DFRC) on a quarterly basis, by the 15th of the month following the end of the
quarter along with the Daily Transaction Listing (DTL) reflecting the date they were submitted.
Bases that have cutover to the AFFSC for processing only submit those documents that do not
require processing to the MMPA (i.e., AF 2070 for PRA) because the source documents processed
at the AFFSC are maintained electronically in EIM and hardcopy submission of those documents
is no longer required. Base-level retention requirement, for documents scanned and sent to the
AFFSC, is 90 days which allows time to ensure the scanned documents were legible when received
by the Center. These supporting documents, as well as the payment vouchers with amounts
actually paid, are kept available for audit, quality examination reviews and claims settlements.

*2.4.6.2.3. Packaging. Package DTLs with documents attached by date. Place original AF Form
2070 (when required) and original and copy of AF Form 1209 in package #1 of supporting
documents. When sending original vouchers or DJMS source documents, ensure all supporting
documentation is affixed with staples. Records must be contained in file folders or accordion
pocket folders. File folders cannot be more than 1 inch thick. Do not use shipping cartons that
exceed 15" long, 12" wide and 10" deep (dimensions of Federal Supply Service item 8115-290-
3379) to send documents to the DFRC. BOX NUMBER - Box Number, month/calendar year of
documents; CONTENTS - Cycle(s) of documents. Identify cycle range (versus individual
cycles). Ensure DFAS-DE 1021 reflects the order the boxes are packed in. It is critical the
DFAS-DE 1021 is accurate as it is used to research DJMS substantiating document requests.
Only use black marker to prepare box. Record the following information on the front of the box:
accession number – accession number provided by DFAS-IN (upper left-hand corner), agency box
number (applicable box number i.e., box 1 of 2, upper right-hand corner). Do not include any
additional information on the front of the box. Do not tape or write over the accession number or
agency box number as the DFRC will not accept it that way. Do not forward boxes without an
accession number. Accession numbers are only valid for 90 days so it is imperative boxes are
forwarded to DFRC ASAP after receipt of accession number. Contact DFAS-IN Records
Manager if you encounter a problem forwarding boxes to DFRC within the 90 day period. Prior
to sealing boxes ensure contents of each box are facing the “front” of the box. Boxes should be
at least ¾ full, if possible. Crumpled paper, computer paper (no printed information), brown
wrapping paper, cardboard, etc., should be used as filler. Do not use plastic bubble wrap or
anything that could be mistaken for records as filler. Box 1 should contain a copy of the SF 135
and applicable detail list on top of the folders or in the front of the first folder. Include
processing month and year for which submitted, ADSN/ISI, serial number of package (for
example, "1 of 3") and DJMS Supporting Documents on each package. Keep duplicate AF Form
1209 per Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. Source documents must be fastened to the
appropriate DTL securely enough to withstand handling during shipping. Paper clips or rubber
bands, whichever are most practical, should be used. Do not use staples to fasten documents.

*2.4.6.2.5. Mailing. White ‘storage’ boxes are not shipping boxes. It is advisable to pursue
shipping methods other than registered mail when using ‘storage’ boxes since sending registered is
costly and destroys the ‘storage box’. If registered mail is used, the boxes must be packaged so
that markings, tape, labels and/or stamps do not compromise the box. The DFRC will not rebox
files when the ‘storage box’ is compromised. All records received, that are not in compliance will
be returned at the expense of the originating office. By the 15th of the month following the end of
the quarter (Jan – Mar, Apr – Jun, Jul – Sep, Oct - Dec), submit SF 135 and applicable detail list
to DFAS-IN Records Management, DFAS-JBDM/IN. Retain a copy of all SF 135s and detail
lists submitted. Upon receipt of the SF 135 copy with the accession number, replace the copy
awaiting an accession number. SF 135 retention is six (6) years after cutoff, i.e., end of year
applicable records were destroyed. Bases that have not cut over to AFFSC are still required to
send documents to DFRC quarterly. Bases that have cutover do not submit hardcopy documents
(other than those which do not require DJMS processing) because EIM is the document
repository for all source documents that substantiate DJMS processing. Select one of the
following methods for submitting SF 135 and applicable detail list:

2.4.6.2.5.1.  Email        irene.lewis@dfas.mil or dale.wentling@dfas.mil
Note: Email attachments must be sent in PDF format.

2.4.6.2.5.2.    Fax            Commercial 317-510-1120, DSN 699-1120

2.4.6.2.5.3.    Mail           DFAS-JBDM/IN
                               8899 E 56th St
                               Indianapolis IN 46249-6540

*2.4.6.2.7. Request for Source Documents. Copies of DJMS MMPA histories are available on-
line from 1982 to current. LESs are available from October 1992 to current. Reference chapters 5
and 7 of this manual for further information on access to these documents. All other requests for
hard copies of source documents and MMPA histories or LESs prior to above dates should be sent
to DFAS-IN. All requests to retrieve records must be in writing and submitted via fax, email at
CIN-RECMgt@dfas.mil, or mailed as indicated below, and include the month and year of the
document, date, accession number, and/or box number if known, in addition to information
below. Records are normally forwarded within two weeks of receipt of request. FAX             to
Commercial 317-510-1120, DSN 699-1120. Email can also be sent to irene.lewis@dfas.mil or
dale.wentling@dfas.mil. Hardcopy mail to DFAS-JBDM/IN, 8899 E 56th St, Indianapolis IN
46249-6540. Since most documents contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII), e.g.,
name, SSN, phone number, etc., care must be taken to protect this information. If the request is
sent via email, ensure it is encrypted and includes your digital signature so it can be added to the
DFAS-IN Records Management contact list.

*2.4.6.2.7.3.          Input ADSN/ISI.

*2.4.6.2.7.6.          Type of input (for example, BAH start not 6801).

*2.4.6.2.7.9.         Name and DSN phone number of person requesting the source document.
When inquiring about DJMS documents, DFAS-IN will need the ADSN, cycle and the quarter or
month/year of the documents. When DJMS documents are first submitted, the SF 135 that is
included with the documents is sent back to the base with an accession number. That accession
number, which is on the returned SF 135, is required for the retrieval.

*5.8. Requests for Source Documents. All requests for copies of source documents must be in
writing and submitted via fax, email at CIN-RECMgt@dfas.mil, or mailed as indicated below,
and include the month and year of the document, date, accession number, and/or box number if
known, in addition to information below. Records are normally forwarded within two weeks of
receipt of request. FAX         to Commercial 317-510-1120, DSN 699-1120. Email can also be
sent to irene.lewis@dfas.mil or dale.wentling@dfas.mil. Hardcopy mail to DFAS-JBDM/IN,
8899 E 56th St, Indianapolis IN 46249-6540. Since most documents contain Personally
Identifiable Information (PII), e.g., name, SSN, phone number, etc., care must be taken to protect
this information. If the request is sent via email, ensure it is encrypted and includes your digital
signature so it can be added to the DFAS-IN Records Management contact list.

*5.8.3. Input ADSN/ISI.

*5.8.7. Type of input (for example, BAH start, not 6801).

*5.8.9. Quarter or month/year of the documents.

*5.8.10. The accession number, which is on the SF 135 DFAS-IN sent back to the base when the
documents were first submitted.

*5.8.11. Name and DSN phone number of person requesting the source document.

*7.10. Personal Statement of Military Compensation (PSMC). The
PSMC is a statement produced annually which outlines the total
value of members' military pay and benefits. PSMCs are sorted
and mailed to the member’s mailing address contained in JLES.
Requests for duplicate PSMCs must be sent to MAJCOM for
forwarding to DFAS who will request creation of the duplicate.
The request must include the member's name, SSN, the calendar year of the statement requested
(i.e., 2007). Statements cannot be re-issued prior to 2005; information for earlier years must be
obtained from members' LES and/or TD Form W-2 for the applicable year. Requests typically
take one to two weeks to complete. Once complete, the form will be emailed to the requestor via
the finance office.

*Replace Chapter 10, paragraphs 10.1 through 10.12, with the following, leaving the existing
figures 10.1 through 10.9, in place:
                                         Chapter 10

        SPECIAL PAY FOR MEDICAL AND DENTAL OFFICERS AND NURSES

*10.1. Description. Conditions of entitlement for the following special pays are found in the
DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 1 through 21.

*10.1.1.       Variable Special Pay (VSP)--payable to physicians/dentists.

*10.1.2.       Board Certification Pay (BCP)--payable to physicians/dentists.

*10.1.2.1. BCP for physicians/dentists—payable to physicians and dentists.

*10.1.2.2. BCP for NonPhysician Health Care Providers (BCP NPHCP)—payable to eligible
Biomedical Sciences Corps and Nurse Corps officers.

*10.1.2.3. Diplomate Pay—payable to eligible clinical psychologists.

*10.1.3.       Additional Special Pay (ASP)--payable to physicians/dentists.
*10.1.4.       Incentive Special Pay (ISP)--payable to physicians.

*10.1.4.1. Single Year Incentive Special Pay (ISP)—payable to physicians not eligible for
Multiyear Special Pay (MSP).

*10.1.4.2. Multi Year Incentive Special Pay (MISP), linked to MSP—payable to physicians.

*10.1.4.3. Early Career Incentive Special Pay (EC-ISP), 4-year ISP at a reduced rate from the
MSP—payable to physicians.

*10.1.5.       Monthly Special Pay--payable to optometrists.

*10.1.6.       Multi-Year Special Pay (MSP)--payable to physicians.

*10.1.7.       Nurse Incentive Special Pay.

*10.1.7.1. Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists Incentive Special Pay (CRNA ISP)—payable
to eligible nurse anesthetists.

*10.1.7.2. Registered Nurse (Nurse Corps) Incentive Special Pay (NC-ISP)—payable to eligible
registered nurses.

*10.1.8.       Registered Nurse Accession Bonus (NAB)--payable to eligible nurses.

*10.1.9.       Dental Officer Accession Bonus (DOAB)--payable to eligible dentists.

*10.1.10. Dental Officer Multiyear Retention Bonus (DOMRB)--- payable to eligible dentists.

*10.1.11. Critical Wartime Skills Accession Bonus—payable to specific medical and dental
specialists in limited numbers.

*10.1.12. Incentive Special Pay for Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons—payable to dental
specialists in this field.

*10.1.13. Critical Skills Retention Bonus.

*10.1.13.1. General Surgeons, 1 or 2-year agreements—payable to General Surgeons within 24
months of separation.

*10.1.13.2. Clinical Psychologists, 3-year agreements—payable to Clinical Psychologists at 3-6
year group.

*10.1.13.3. Public Health Officers (AF), 3-year agreements—payable to AF Publich Health
Officers at 3-6 year group.
*10.1.13.4. Registered Nurses, 3-year agreements—payable to registered nurses in specific year
groups.

*10.1.14. Pharmacy Officer Accession Bonus—payable to eligible pharmacists.

*10.1.15. Pharmacy Officer Special Pay—payable to eligible pharmacists.

*10.1.16. Optometrist Retention Pay—payable to eligible optometrists.

*10.1.17. Physician Assistants. The following are payable to eligible Physician Assistants:

*10.1.17.1. Physician Assistant Accession Bonus.

*10.1.17.2. Physician Assistant Incentive Pay.

*10.1.17.3. Physician Assistant Retention Bonus.

*10.1.17.4. Physician Assistant Board Certification Pay.

*10.1.18. Clinical Psychologists. The following are payable to eligible Clinical Psychologists:

*10.1.18.1. Clinical Psychologists Accession Bonus.

*10.1.18.2. Clinical Psychologists Incentive Pay.

*10.1.18.3. Clinical Psychologists Retention Bonus.

*10.1.18.4. Clinical Psychologists Board Certification Pay.

*10.1.19. Clinical Licensed Social Workers. The following are payable to eligible Clinical
Licensed Social Workers:

*10.1.19.1. Clinical Licensed Social Workers Accession Bonus.

*10.1.19.2. Clinical Licensed Social Workers Incentive Pay.

*10.1.19.3. Clinical Licensed Social Workers Retention Bonus.

*10.1.19.4. Clinical Licensed Social Workers Board Certification Pay.

*10.1.20. AF Public Health Officers. The following are payable to eligible AF Public Health
Officers:

*10.1.20.1. AF Public Health Officers Accession Bonus.

*10.1.20.2. AF Public Health Officers Incentive Pay.
*10.1.20.3. C AF Public Health Officers Retention Bonus.

*10.1.20.4. AF Public Health Officers Board Certification Pay.

*10.2. Source of Input. All Medical/Dental/Nurse special pay transactions are input to DJMS by
AFPC. Processed transactions start, change, correct, or cancel the entitlements and update the
MMPA for pay computation. When a physician/dentist reaches the necessary years that require an
adjustment in pay for VSP or BCP, computer programming adjusts the pay without any external
input. For conditions and computation of SAVE PAY, see chapter 75.

*10.3. Variable Special Pay (VSP). Payable to physicians/dentists based on training status and
years of creditable medical service. MMPA shows VSP as FID 24 for physicians and FID 20 for
dentists.

*10.4. Board Certification Pay (BCP). Payable to physicians/dentists who are board certified.
Officers must be established as physicians/dentists before the BCP is entered on their MMPAs. If
the FID 19 (BCP) is received before FID's 24 or 20 (VSP), the BCP will recycle at 7-day intervals
for 49 days. If a physician/dentist reaches the applicable years of medical/dental service or
certification expiration date, the rate is increased or discontinued programmatically.

*10.5. Additional Special Pay (ASP). Payable to physicians/dentists who are not in internship or
initial residency training and sign a written agreement to remain on active duty for a period of 1
year from the contract effective date. A processed transaction will place this entitlement on the
MMPA, create an R2 entry showing the effective date, and generate a PJ payment authorization.
Payment is made annually in advance as a lump sum and shown on the MMPA as FID 25.
Continuation Pay for dental officers is payable to dentists who qualify under the saved pay
provisions of the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 6, at the rates prescribed. It is shown on the
MMPA as FID 25.

*10.6. Incentive Special Pay (ISP). Congress revised the ISP program effective 1 January 1991
so that eligible physicians may sign multi-year contracts (1, 2, 3, or 4 years). The initial payment
is paid upon execution of the contract, and subsequent installments are made on the anniversary
date of the contract. A processed transaction will place the entitlement on the MMPA as FID 25,
create an RC bonus entry, and generate a PJ payment authorization.

*10.7. Optometry Pay. Payable monthly to optometrists on active duty for a period of at least 1
year. Shown on the MMPA as FID 29.

*10.8. Multi-Year Special Pay (MSP). Payable to eligible physicians below the grade of 07,
with at least 8 years' creditable service or who have completed all active duty service obligation,
who will have completed initial residency training or will complete such training before September
30th of the fiscal year in which the officer enters into an MSP agreement, and are fully qualified in
a designated specialty. Officers must execute a written agreement to remain on active duty for at
least 2 years but no more than 4 years after completion of any active duty service commitment for
medical education or training. MSP contracts will be payable in equal annual installments. The
initial annual installment will be paid upon execution of the MSP service agreement. Payments of
subsequent installment amounts will be made on the anniversary date of the agreement. A
processed transaction will place the entitlement on the MMPA as FID 25, create an RB entry, and
generate a PJ payment authorization.

*10.9. Incentive Special Pay for Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNA). A nurse
corps officer who is qualified and performing as a CRNA may be paid incentive special pay for
each year of a properly executed written agreement to serve on active duty at a rate prescribed in
the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 21. The officer must agree to remain on active duty for a
period of not less than one year. The effective date of the agreement shall be prescribed in Military
Department regulations issued by the Secretary concerned and shall be included in the agreement.
Subject to mutual acceptance, an officer may execute a two year agreement. Under such
agreements, payments shall be made at the beginning of the agreement and on the one year
anniversary date. A processed transaction will place the entitlement on the MMPA as FID 25,
create an RD entry, and generate a PJ payment authorization.

*10.10. Dental Multiyear Retention Bonus. A dental officer, who executes a written agreement
which is accepted by the secretary of the military department concerned, may be paid a retention
bonus per eligibility criteria and rates payable as prescribed in DoDFMR, Vol 7A, chapter 6.

*10.11. Nurse Accession Bonuses.

*10.11.1.       Registered Nurse Accession Bonus. A nurse who qualifies for appointment as a
nurse corps officer and executes a written agreement to accept a commission and serve on active
duty as a nurse corps officer for a period of not less than four years, may, upon acceptance of the
agreement by the Secretary concerned, be paid a lump sum accession bonus at a rate prescribed in
the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 21. A personnel generated transaction will place the
entitlement on the MMPA as FID 26, create an RE entry, and generate a PJ payment authorization.

*10.11.2.       Dental Officer Accession Bonus. A dental officer who executes a written
agreement to accept a commission as an officer of the Air Force designated as a dental officer, to
serve on active duty for a period of not less than four years, and upon acceptance of the agreement
of the service Secretary, is entitled to dental officer accession bonus. The individual must not have
received financial assistance from the Department of Defense for this specialty prior to
appointment as a dental officer. Policy for this entitlement is contained in the DoDFMR, Volume
7A, chapter 6. A personnel generated transaction will place the entitlement on the MMPA as FID
26, create an RE entry, and generate a PJ payment authorization. (Reference figure 10-6.)

*10.12. Payment of Bonus. For central payees, the installments of any of the bonuses discussed
in this chapter are released from the DFAS Central Site through the electronic funds transfer
system (EFTS) on the effective dates. Local payees are paid via the one-time pay authorization list
at base level. When a member is paid by EFTS, base level is notified by message on the one-time
pay authorization list, instead of receiving a pay authorization to make payment locally. Members
in a TDY or PCS status, who are central payees, will receive their installments by EFTS. Locally
paid members, who are TDY, may receive those payments from the TDY FSO. Locally paid
members, who are in PCS status may be paid the installments by any FSO since no pay
authorization will be issued. In this case, gaining FSOs should determine if the payment was made
by another FSO before routinely issuing a bonus payment.

*Paragraph 11.3.2.    Specialty Type Codes are as follows:


           Proficiency Pay                  Description

               AA          =   White House Comm Agency
               AB          =   Defense Threat Reduction Agency (Formerly: On
                               Site Inspection Agency)
               AC          =   Tactical Air Command and Control Personnel
               AD          =   Parachute Instructors
               AF          =   Defense Courier Service
               AG          =   HQS Joint Special Operations Command
               AH          =   DET2, Special Ops Command Ops Staff
               AT          =   Air Transportation PAS-WG3VFR1M (Not in
                               JDC/DMO)
               BB          =   Flying Crew Chiefs
               BG          =   Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE)
                               specialist
                C          =   Combat Controllers
               CM          =   Command CMSGT (Not in JDC/DMO)
               CW          =   Combat Weather Personnel (Not in JDC/DMO)
               FA          =   Forward Area Refueling Personnel
               FS          =   First Sergeant (Not in JDC/DMO)
                H          =   Humint Linguist-Debriefers
                               (also used for EOD personnel – processed at DFAS)
               HO          =   HAF Operations
               HS          =   HAF Support
                I          =   Military Training Instructor
               IA          =   Defense Attache Spec (Not in JDC/DMO)
               JO          =   Joint Communication Unit (Operational)
               JS          =   Joint Communication Unit (Support)
               NC          =   National Airborne OPS CTR (Not in JDC/DMO)
               NO          =   24 STS Operations (Formerly: NAFCOS Support
                               (Special Tactics Squadron))
                NS         =   24 STS Support (Formerly: NAFCOS Support
                               (Special Tactics Squadron))
                P          =   Pararescue
               PR          =   Phoenix Raven
                R          =   Recruiters
               SI          =   AFOSI Special Agents (Not in JDC/DMO)
               TC          =   Air Traffic Controllers (Not in JDC/DMO)
               TP          =   Test Parachute (Not in JDC/DMO)
               WD          =   Enlisted Weapons Director
                WH          =    White House Shelter Complex (Not in JDC/DMO)


*13.3.2.        IDP can be reported on an AF Form 1881 or published orders that reference a duty
location in a designated area (per: DoDFMR Volume 7A, figure 10-1) and DD Form 1351-2,
Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher, for determining the inclusive period of entitlement. However,
published orders that do not include an itinerary or state a designated area are not adequate.

*13.3.2.1. Members are entitled to receive IDP during the period of duty in the designated
location. When the member provides his/her orders (DD Form 1610 or DTS authorization
showing an assigned six digit authorization number), use them, along with a certified DD Form
114, to start the entitlement effective the date the member is due to arrive in the designated area.
If only group orders are available, verify with personnel readiness that the member actually
departed prior to starting the entitlement.

*13.3.2.2.     Members who return from designated locations lose entitlement to IDP at the end
of the month of departure from that location. If the member returns to the PDS and does not
have a copy of the travel voucher (i.e., filed with another organization), have the member create
another voucher, including signature. That provides member certification of the facts. Submit
the voucher to stop the entitlement. Advise the member to provide you a copy of the settled
travel voucher, upon receipt, for use in verifying the dates as posted to the MMPA to ensure
there was no over or underpayment.

*13.3.3.       For contingency operations or major deployments, the Joint Chiefs of Staff will
issue processing procedures for starting IDP and other entitlements.

*13.3.4.         Members performing duty at Guantanamo Bay may be entitled to IDP if they are
certified as performing qualifying duty “behind the wire”. The certification memo and/or email
from AFAFO are used as substantiating documentation for the entitlement.

*13.3.5. For members receiving IDP and hardship duty pay – location (HDP-L), the total of these
two pays is limited to $325 per month; therefore, regardless of the HDP-L amount designated for
the area, the HDP-L in those cases is not to exceed $100 per month.

*16.6.1.7.     FITW will be deducted at the flat rate of 25%. SITW (if applicable) will be
deducted at the one-time payment rate corresponding to the member’s state of legal residence.

*16.6.2.3.     FITW will be deducted at the flat rate of 25%. SITW (if applicable) will be
deducted at the one-time payment rate corresponding to the member’s state of legal residence.

*22.2. Source of Input. Host Aviation Resource Management Office (HARM) initiates AF Form
1887, Request and Authorization for Aeronautical Orders, for members entitled to ACIP or HDIP
(see Figure 22-1). Table 22-1 lists types and sources of supporting documents used to start, stop,
and report ACIP and HDIP. All aeronautical orders (AOs) must show a termination date for non-
crew members. The HARM establishes a case management system (CMS) case when a member
gains or loses eligibility for flight pay.
*22.3.1.1.     ACIP/HDIP for officers is input by finance based on CMS case established by the
HARM and referred to FSO for action. Officers: for O-7 and above with over 25 years of officer
service who perform qualified aviator duty, start HDIP using crew status code 1 based on current
AF Form 1887, Aeronautical Order (AO). Bases that have cutover to the AFFSC print the AO and
scan into EIM for processing at the AFFSC.

*22.3.1.2.4. Code 6 – Identifies members receiving Career Enlisted Flyer Incentive Pay (CEFIP).
CEFIP cases are established by the HARM and sent directly to DFAS for processing. See
paragraph 22.6 for information on CEFIP.

*22.3.1.2.5. Code 7 – Identifies members receiving Conditional CEFIP. CEFIP cases are
established by the HARM and sent directly to DFAS for processing. See paragraph 22.6 below for
information on CEFIP.

*22.4.6.        Confirmation of ASD/OSD for Rated Officers (AFPC input). The TN05
transaction confirms the dates in the 1201 for officers with a crew status 1. A "Y" indicator is
established in the TN entry upon processing. If the dates in the TN entry disagree with those in the
TN05 transaction, the TN05 transaction will take precedence. The ASD/OSD dates are changed
and a management notice is sent to DFAS-JM/DE to determine if a rate adjustment is needed. The
effective date of the entitlement is not changed, but the "future" is corrected to show the new
effective date of the next rate adjustment.

*22.6. Workaround Procedures for Career Enlisted Flight Incentive Pay (CEFIP).

*22.6.3.       HQ USAF/XOOT identified all current career enlisted aviators (CEA’s),
authorized to receive this entitlement, to DFAS along with their aviation service dates. Be
mindful that there are still members entitled to the old HDIP and these rates are found in JWMM
tables 003 and 004 depending on crew status.

*22.6.4.        The HARM establishes a case management system (CMS) case for every
transaction for members entitled to or receiving CEFIP, for a start, stop or change. The
substantiating documentation is the AO, which substantiates the start, stop or change. No longer
is a DD Form 114 required from the HARM when there is an AO issued. There are situations,
however, in which a member is not required to have an AO and, in those cases, the CMS case
from the HARM is the substantiation. The HARM establishes the CMS case for payment of
CEFIP and refers it to DFAS-JMC/DE for action. DFAS takes action and returns the case to the
HARM for closure.

*22.6.5.        Workaround for Conditional CEFIP. Once an enlisted member has reached 25
years of flying experience his/her fly pay is based upon meeting certain flying qualifications.
These include a minimum number of flying hours per month; however, members are given a
grace period and hours from one month may be applied to a month that is short of the
requirement. The HARM is required to monitor these hours. Once the CMS case is established
to start CEFIP on a member, it does not stop until the HARM establishes a case to stop it because
the member failed to meet the flying hours requirements. The crew status for members receiving
conditional CEFIP is 7 allowing it to be identified separately from regular CEFIP.
*25.8.3.3. Calculate the actual meal charge amount and submit a DS01, type 9, for the meal
charge, prorating the collection amount, using the D company code of the FSO if the base has
not cutover to the AFFSC or the company code of the AFFSC if the base has cut over. The
problem with this option is that the system does not recognize the collection as a replacement for
the DN and, if there was a later requirement to refund some part of the collected amount, the
PI03 would not process because there would be no DN on the record. See paragraph 25.2.8
above for action to take when the duty location is a pipeline training location.

*25.10.2. Initiating Payment. To start (or change) FSSA payments, send an email with a copy
of the DD Form 2857, DD Form 114, and an EXCEL spreadsheet (with the information listed in
paragraph 25.10.3 below), to AF/A1PA via the MAJCOM. Once the FSSA request has been
validated and approved, AF/A1PA will contact DFAS to initiate payment.

*26.2.2.1.3. The letter is forwarded from the Mission Support or Civil Engineering Commander
to the local FSO, from the FSO to the appropriate major command (MAJCOM), and from the
MAJCOM to AF/A1PA, 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040. The
MAJCOM should also send an informational copy to AF/A7CAH, 1260 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1260 or AFILEH.Workflow@pentagon.af.mil.

*26.4.3.       BAH-DIFF. AF Form 594 is used to start or stop a member’s entitlement. Only
members who qualify as members with dependents solely by reason of payment of child support
and are assigned to unaccompanied personnel housing (dorms) are entitled to BAH-DIFF.

*26.18.1.      While on station within the United States: BAH Individual Rate Protection is
maintained and BAH shall not be reduced as a result of changes in MHA, or national, costs or
promotion of the member. BAH Rate Protection is lost if there is a change in status of the
member, including demotion, member moving out of current MHA, Permanent Change of
Station (unless waiver approved) or a change in dependency status.

*26.18.2.     Upon PCS: A member may request BAH Rate Protection via waiver. BAH Rate
Protection waivers must be applied for through the servicing MPF and approved by AF/A1PA.
The following conditions warrant waiver consideration:

*26.18.2.1.    Low Cost/No Cost Moves. With an approved waiver, a member with or without
dependents, reassigned incident to a low cost/no cost move within the U.S., is entitled to
continue receipt of BAH at the old PDS rate. See Figure 26-31 for the format to use when
requesting a waiver for Low Cost/No Cost Moves.

*26.18.2.2.     PCS to Attend Professional Military Education (PME). A member with
dependents, assigned PCS to attend PME, technical training, or career education for 12 months
or less, may request a waiver to the normal BAH policy. This waiver, if approved, allows the
member to receive BAH for a location other than the PDS (PME location). The member may
elect to receive BAH at the rate for the new PDS, old PDS or the dependent's location if the
member does not have an old PDS. A waiver is not required if the member elects to receive the
new PDS rate, as it is the rate payable upon arrival in the absence of an approved waiver. If
approved, the FSO uses the approval letter, amended orders indicating limited PCS entitlements,
and AF Form 594 as support for payment. If approved, the FSO ensures reimbursement for
TLE, DLA and per diem are still paid at the single rate. See Figure 26-30 for the format to use
when requesting a waiver for PME/Technical Training.

*26.29.5.4.     Review approved AF Form 1039 to ensure that the number of months approved
for repayment will not exceed the member's tour length or date of separation (DOS). Review
member's MMPA when receiving PCS notice or during out-processing and take necessary action
to collect any unpaid advance prior to PCS or separation. For additional information on
repayment schedules and extending or postponing collections, see JFTR, Volume I, chapter 10,
and Table 30-1 of this volume.

*Figure 26.30. Application for BAH Waiver for Professional Military Education (PME)
/Technical Training.




*Figure 26.31. Application for BAH Waiver for Low Cost/No Cost Move.
*27.6.1.       Using the member’s TDY orders (DD Form 1610 or DTS authorization showing
an assigned six digit authorization number) as authority and backup documentation, the member
will certify DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of FSA prior to departure.

*27.6.2.     Process a 6501-T effective the departure date obtained from the TDY orders (DD
Form 1610 or DTS authorization showing an assigned six digit authorization number).

*27.7. FSO Action. Submit FSA transactions when member becomes entitled or when
entitlement stops per DoDFMR, Volume 7A, tables 27-1 through 27-4. FSA type T start
transaction cannot be submitted until the member’s date of departure. FSA type S and T start
transactions will not pay until the member has been separated from his/her family for over thirty
days, with entitlement back to date of departure. NOTE: due to the increasing number of
members who are entitled to FSA-T, Air Force policy now requires that the servicing FSO (home
station) input the start transaction (6501) at departure, based on the member’s orders to duty for
more than 30 days and the member’s completed certification on DD Form 1561.

*27.7.1.       Members with dependents must report to finance prior to departing on a TDY
projected for more than 30 days. The member must complete a DD Form 1561, mark the
applicable blocks in section 8, read the certification statement, and sign and date in block 9.
Based upon that certification and a copy of the member’s orders (DD Form 1610 or DTS
authorization showing an assigned six digit authorization number), FSO completes DD Form
114, including the following statement: “I certify that this member is in receipt of orders for a
period of more than 30 days and that member has completed DD Form 1561.” Members who
do not report prior to departure will be paid FSA, via a report transaction, upon return.

*27.7.2.        Attach a copy of the orders (DD Form 1610 or DTS authorization showing an
assigned six digit authorization number) to the DD Form 114 and use that as the source document
for the 6501 transaction to start FSA. DJMS-AC will recycle the start until the member has been
gone for more than 30 days and then generate the pay entitlement, retroactive to the date of
departure.

*27.7.3. Attach a copy of the TDY order (DD Form 1610 or DTS authorization showing an
assigned six digit authorization number) to the DD Form 1561 and file in a suspense file until the
projected date of return contained in the orders. On projected date of return, or actual date of
return if the member comes back earlier, process the 6502 to stop the FSA and sign the
certification statement on the DD Form 1561, using the DD 1561, travel voucher, and the attached
order as the supporting documentation for the stop. Additionally, DD Form 114 may be used to
stop the entitlement as soon as you are aware the member has returned; however, the completed
DD Form 1561 is required to be submitted once the travel voucher is completed, with a copy of the
DD Form 114 attached. See paragraph 27.2.3 above.

*Figure 27.1. DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation
Allowance.
*29.3.1.         Payment of TLA Departure for Dependents of Deceased Members. TLA is
authorized for dependents of deceased members prior to departing the overseas area. Authorized
for or within the last 10 days before day of departure from old permanent duty station. TLA may
not exceed 10 days unless authorized per JFTR U9170. Use special orders signed by competent
authority to attach to the original AF Form 1357. Payment may be authorized in 10-day
increments for the entire period that temporary lodgings must be used.

*Table 30.1. Advance Payment of Housing Allowance and Recoupment Procedures.

 TABLE 30-1
 ADVANCE PAYMENT OF HOUSING ALLOWANCE AND RECOUPMENT PROCEDURES
                 A                                           B                                          C

 R
 U
 L
 E    If the                     then                                                      Reference
  1   repayment is to be         the FSO determines the repayment period:                  JFTR Vol I, chapter 10
      extended beyond 12         (a) when justified by the member and the approving
      months                     official determines a 12-month repay will cause a
                                 hardship.
                                 (b) if the member is on a controlled tour, repay period
                                 may equal tour length but may not exceed it.
                                 (c) if member is not serving a controlled tour, repay
                                 period may not exceed 24 months.
                                 (d) in all cases, the repay period must not exceed DOS.
                                 (e) in most cases, however, liquidation of the advance
                                 should not exceed 12 months.

  2   member is serving an       the FSO may, upon request from the member, advance        para 30-5 and figure
      unaccompanied overseas     housing allowances based on housing expenses for the      30-3
      tour                       member and for the dependents at the accompanied
                                 location. (Advance housing allowances may be paid at
                                 any time during a tour of duty at the new location. All
                                 housing expenses must be documented to include copies
                                 of leases, utility company statements, etc). Process
                                 separate vouchers and PA03s for each advance payment
                                 for local payees. For central payees, process separate
                                 CICS trans IDs ‘JPBB’ for each payment (see
                                 subparagraph 38-9b for a more detailed scenario of this
                                 payment process). Transactions must reflect the proper
                                 ADV-PAY-CTCGS code of "B" (OHA) and "G"
                                 (CONUS)

  3   advance of housing         the combined assets allowances, and expenses of the       para 30-5f
      allowances is requested    occupants are considered.
      by member married to
      another member

  4   member and dependent       lump sum recoupment will not exceed the amount of         JFTR Vol I, chapter 10
      vacate housing for which   money returned to the member by the landlord. Any         and para 30-5k
      advance housing            balance of an advance not returned by the landlord may
      allowance (OHA, IHA,       be liquidated in monthly installments if desired by the
      and BAQ) was made          member.
      (OVERSEAS)
  5   member is pending          the FSO initiates held pay or accelerates the repayment    DoDFMR Vol 7A,
      separation from the        rate to ensure collection of the remaining balance.        chapter 32, table 32-1
      service

  6   member requests            the FSO receives a written request justifying the lesser
      repayment at a rate less   amount. Normally repayment will be made with the
      than $50.00 per month      $50.00 per month minimum.



*32.7.1.         For members whose OHA requires change due to the information provided at re-
certification, forward the completed AF Form 987 to the Housing Office for review. The housing
officer will review the AF Form 987, maintain the required supporting documentation, sign the re-
certification form, and return the 987 to the FSO for use as the source document for input. For
changes to BAH, use the completed AF Form 594 as the source document, certifying that you have
examined whatever supporting documentation the member provided. Once you have examined it,
return the supporting documentation to the member (if not mailed in) and include the AF Form 594
or 987 with your regular quarterly submission (Records Center Handbook available on FTP site for
reference) of source documents to the DFRC.

*32.7.2.        Upon receipt of the completed AF Form 594 or 987, ensure the information
matches the MMPA and, if not, documentation to support the differences is reviewed and disposed
of as directed in paragraph 32.7.1 above.

*32.7.3.         DFAS provides a monthly listing identifying members who have been on station
for 4 years and must recertify dependent status. Contact members and have them complete a new
form upon receipt of the listing, following procedures above. When the member recertifies BAH
entitlement at the 4-year point and no changes to the BAH entitlement are required, retain the
594 in SSN order until the member has PCSd or separates or completes a new form.

*33.12. Input. Prepare input shown in figure 33-6 as follows:

*35.4.4.        Retention of Daily EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form when payment has
been made by DFAS-DE using EFT. The Confirmed Daily EFT Payment Data Report is available
on SAR, under JFAREG, ID is FA0341D. Two copies of this report should be printed out daily
when EFT payments have been confirmed/authorized by your FSO for any one business day.
Attach original Daily EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form to one copy and a copy of the
EFT Form to the second copy of the report. Enter the following note on your DTL: “For daily
EFT data, see attached listing,” and attach report with original EFT form request to your DTL. The
DTL gets forwarded to the Denver Federal Records Center (DFRC) with the quarterly document
submission. The second Daily EFT Payment Data Report is maintained at FSO level for 1 year
after reconciliation (Air Force Records Disposition Schedule), provided there are no outstanding
discrepancies for which corrective action has been prescribed by DFAS-JM/DE.

*35.4.5.       When a member receives an advance of pay from a friendly foreign nation and
payment is chargeable to a military pay appropriation (P510 or 530), a copy of the paid voucher
must be sent to DFAS-JMS/DE for preparation of input transactions.
*Table 35.1. AF Form 265 Preparation.

 TABLE 35-1
 AF FORM 265
 PREPARATION
                A                                                 B
 R
 U   To process local          takes this action
 L   payments (see Note 3)
 E
 1   Military Pay Technician   Determines amount due (using LES, MMPA, PCS package, etc.).
                               Prepares AF Form 265. If printed manually, uses ball-point pen or
                               indelible pencil to ensure all copies are legible. Presents an AF Form
                               265 to Chief, Customer Service/Customer Support, or designated
                               official for approval and signature. Strikeovers and erasures on
                               amounts shown are prohibited. When an error is made in amount, line
                               out but do not obliterate incorrect entry. Enter correct amount and take
                               to Chief, Customer Service, to initial correction. Take MPO copies 1
                               and 2 of AF Form 265, to the Deputy Disbursing Office (DDO). Send
                               copy 3 of AF Form 265 to certifying officer.
 2   Deputy Disbursing         a.       verifies authenticity of approving official's signature.
     Officer                   b.       requests identification of member.
                               c.       makes payment and secures signature of payee on AF Form
                               265.
                               d.       at end of day, prepares DD Form 117 (see figure 76-2) in
                               duplicate to cover payments made on AF Forms 265 (for certifying
                               officer, see DoDFMR, Vol 5, chapter 33).
                               e.       retains original DD Form 117 and copy 1 of the AF Form 265
                               for submission to DFRC; attaches copy 2 of AF Form 265 to duplicate
                               DD Form 117 and forwards to certifying officer. (Note: For PCS
                               advances or advance housing allowance payments attach the AF Form
                               1039 and/or AF Form 1002 to the AF Form 265).
 3   Certifying Officer        on receipt of duplicate voucher and AF Form 265:
                               a.       compares money list with copy 4 AF Form 265 to ensure that
                               names, control numbers, and amounts paid agree.
                               b.       if above comparisons reveal any discrepancies, determines
                               reason and notifies Chief, Customer Service.
                               c.       if no discrepancies are found, includes copy 4 of AF Form 265
                               in next update forwarded to DFRC or scans into EIM.
                               d.       ensures that proper supporting documents are submitted.
                               (Advance payments to E-4 (senior airmen) or below require
                               commander's or recruiting officer's approval).
 NOTES:
 1. For AF Forms 265, the chief of Customer Service/Customer Support or designated official is
 not the certifying official. His or her signature provides a means for the DDO to verify that the
 proper authority has approved the AF Form 265 before payment.

 2. For DD Forms 117, the FSO/agent, or designee may certify in Block 10. The chief of
 Customer Service/Customer Support may be designated to sign as the certifying officer. When
 the chief of Customer Service/Customer Support signs in Block 10 as the certifying officer, he or
 she is not required to sign in Block 16 as reviewer. Block 16 is only completed when the
 reviewer is someone other than preparer (Block 15) or certifying officer (Block 10). As
 prescribed in DoDFMR, Volume 5, paragraph 330502, a DDO may not be a certifying officer.
 When the Chief of Customer Service/Customer Support or designated official is the approving
 official (signs in Block 16), the signature provides a means for DDO to verify that the proper
 authority approved the AF Form before payment.

 3. Local payments are limited to emergency circumstances. See DoDFMR, Vol 7A, chapter 32
 for further information.


*Table 35.2. EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form Preparation.

 TABLE 35-2
 EFT PAYMENT REQUEST/AUTHORIZATION FORM
 PREPARATION
                 A                                                    B
 R
 U   To Process Payments         take this action
 L   Through Daily
 E   EFT/Direct Deposit
 1   Customer Service            Determines amount due (using LES, MMPA, PCS package, etc).
                                 Prepares EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form. Creates
                                 electronically or prints manually using ball point pen or indelible pencil
                                 to ensure legibility. Obtains Certifying Officer’s signature in
                                 “AUTHORIZED BY” block. Forwards form to processing section.
 2   Processing Section          Enter the payment request/authorization into DJMS using CICS Trans
                                 ID “JPBB” and enters USER ID and date in block 9 under “INPUT
                                 BY”.
 3   Chief of Customer           a. Signs onto DJMS and uses CICS Trans ID “JPBX” to confirm or
     Service/Customer            reject the payment request/authorization. (See note 1)
     Support or Designee         b. Enters USER ID and date in block 9 under “CONFIRMED BY”.
                                 c. Prepares a generic cover sheet titled: EFT Payment
                                 Request/Authorization. Enters date EFT Requests/Authorizations were
                                 submitted through CICS on this generic cover sheet.
                                 d. Attaches EFT Request/Authorization forms to cover sheet for each
                                  business day and forwards to Chief, Processing Section.
  4   Chief of Customer           a. Pulls a copy of Confirmed Daily EFT Payment Data, PCN
      Service/Customer            UH099C0341 from Sysout Archieval Retrieval (SAR). (See note 2)
      Support or Designee         b. Ensures proper supporting documents are submitted with EFT
                                  request. (i.e., some advances require Commander’s approval).
                                  c. Compares members appearing on UH099C0341 with EFT Payment
                                  Request/Authorization forms to ensure names, SSNs and amounts paid
                                  agree.
                                  d. If above comparisons reveal any discrepancies, determines reason.
                                  Chief, Customer Service/Customer Support or designee makes
                                  corrections as necessary.
                                  e. If members do not appear on UH099C0341, review reject file, using
                                  the same CICS Trans ID that was used during the initial input, and take
                                  appropriate action.
 NOTES:

 1. During input of CICS Trans ID “JPBB” or “JPBX”, if the amount entered exceeds the established
 tolerance per payment, a message will appear on the screen. When that occurs, DFAS must be notified
 to make that payment for the base via daily EFT.

 2. The business day for daily EFT runs from 0900 M.T. of one day to 0900 M.T. of the next day
 (Denver time). Product Control Number (PCN) UH099C0341 is created on a daily basis and includes
 payments confirmed for a specific business day by the bases that requested payments to be sent through
 daily EFT. This product is in Confirmed User ID sequence and is available through SAR on a daily
 basis after the payments have been released to the Federal Reserve Bank.




*37.2.1.        Do not make separation payments to separated members more than 2 workdays
after the separation date without contacting DFAS-JMCBD/DE via E-Mail or calling to obtain a
payment control number.

*41.2.3.1. Travel Voucher and Attachment. Member must file a travel voucher with the local
FSO within 5 workdays after completion of PCS travel whether or not cost to government is
involved. This includes member's temporary duty pending further orders (TDPFO). See AFI 65-
114 for instructions on preparing travel voucher. Use data in member's itinerary to support PCS
arrival transaction (see paragraph 41.2.3.1.1 and 41.2.3.1.2 below for date depart last duty station
(DDLDS) and date arrive station (DAS)). Actual travel time computed must be shown on
member's travel voucher. When travel voucher cannot be paid immediately (for example, when
orders require amendment), use one copy of travel voucher itinerary as a substantiating document.
Verification of departure and arrival dates may be made by audit of endorsed travel voucher and
AF Form 2095, Assignment/Personnel Action. Verify this data periodically with local MPF/MPE
to ensure accuracy of dates on travel voucher. Bring discrepancies found to the attention of
member and MPF/MPE for correction. Detailed processing procedures for leave and document
control are in chapter 44.

*41.2.3.1.1. Date Depart Last Duty Station (DDLDS). The DDLDS is the actual date the
member departs the last permanent duty station (not the local area) or the first duty day after out-
processing from the MPF/MPE, whichever is earlier. NOTE: Duty days are considered to be
Monday through Friday.

*41.2.3.1.1.1. If the member departs the same day as out-processing, the DDLDS is the same day
as out-processing.

*41.2.3.1.1.2. When out-processing is accomplished on Friday and the member physically departs
the next duty day, then that duty day is the DDLDS. Examples:

*41.2.3.1.1.2.1. Out-processing is accomplished on Friday, physically departs on Monday;
Monday is the DDLDS.

*41.2.3.1.1.2.2. Out-processing is accomplished on Friday, physically departs on Saturday;
Saturday is the DDLDS.

*41.2.3.1.1.2.3. Out-processing is accomplished on Friday, physically departs on Sunday; Sunday
is the DDLDS.

*41.2.3.1.1.2.4. Monday is a holiday or a base “down day”. Out-processing is accomplished on
Friday, physically departs on Tuesday; Tuesday is the DDLDS.

*41.2.3.1.1.3. Member takes leave in the local area (old PDS), the DDLDS is the next duty day
after the out-processing date from the MPF/MPE.

*41.2.3.1.2. Date Arrive Station (DAS) at the New Permanent Duty Station (PDS). The DAS
is the actual date the member arrives at the new PDS, has contacted the new
Commander/Unit/MPF/MPE and is available for duty.

*41.2.3.1.2.1. If the member takes any leave after arriving in the local area of the new PDS and
the leave is approved by the new Commander/Unit, the DAS is the physical date of arrival because
the member was available for duty and had to get approval from the new Commander to take the
leave. This leave must be posted/accounted for by the member’s unit and not from the travel
voucher; for example permissive house hunting leave.

*41.2.3.1.2.2. If the member takes leave in the local area of the new PDS without contacting the
Commander/Unit, the leave is charged from the travel voucher and the DAS is the first duty day
after the leave period when the member is actually available for duty.

*41.3. Source of Input. The concept of one-stop processing of members arriving and departing
on PCS, established by AFI 36-2906, is continued under DJMS-AC. To accomplish this, an FSO
representative is included in the MPF/MPE processing line. Under this principle, the FSO
representative must see that an MPO is completed to start or stop any item affected by PCS that is
not handled automatically. The FSO representative should also inform members that changes of
address for bond allotments are the member's responsibility. Members are required to complete
AF Form 1745 to change address prior to PCS departure and then address changes are input by the
FSO, not DFAS-DE. See paragraph 41.2.3.1.1 and 41.2.3.1.2 above for guidance on DDLDS and
DAS.

*42.4.3.2. Upon receipt of the travel voucher (per AFI 65-114), use the voucher and DD Form
114 as a source document to submit the transactions to start, stop, or change appropriate TDY
entitlements, except those that require separate certifications (i.e., DD Form 1561 for FSA). All
adjustments should be made per the DoDFMR, Volume 7A and the JFTR.

*44.10. DTS Military Leave Report. The DTS Administrator (DTA) provides a copy of the
Military Leave Report, from DTS, to customer service/customer support every day. Upon
receipt of the report, validate the days identified as leave in DTS were charged to the member's
MMPA.

*44.10.1. If the days were not charged, go into Leave Web, get a leave number using the input
source code identified for DTS, and use LeaveWeb to charge the leave.

*44.10.2. Annotate the report with the leave number and dates charged, whether the leave has
already been charged or you are updating through LeaveWeb.

*44.10.3. If the dates of leave on the MMPA do not match what is on the report, validate that
leave was taken and the correct period, with the member's supervisor, make all necessary
corrections, and annotate the report accordingly.

*44.10.4. If the leave cannot be charged via LeaveWeb and the base has already cutover to the
AFFSC, the DTS report is scanned and send to the AFFSC for posting the leave. If the base has
not cutover to the AFFSC, the finance office posts the leave via DMO.

*54.2.3.2.2. Duplicate - copy for DFAS-JMCBC/DE, with legible signatures.

*54.4.1. Casualty Assistance function (CAR):

*54.4.1.1. Sends death message, using the messaging system DCIPS forward, to AFPC with
DFAS-JMCBC/DE as informational addressee. This message contains information from DD Form
93 or virtual record of emergency data (VRED) as to whether there is a designated beneficiary or
an eligible non-designated beneficiary (see DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 36).

*54.4.1.2. Furnishes servicing FSO a copy of the death message and a copy of the member’s
VRED or DD Form 93; FMS 2231, Direct Deposit; and DD Form 397, Claim Certification and
Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment. Obtains signed SF Form 1174 and DD Form 2058 from the
beneficiary (ies). Advises parent or guardian of minor child (ren) beneficiary (ies) of the need for
state appointed guardianship documents. Follows up until guardianship is received and forwards
to DFAS-JMCBC/DE for payment of death gratuity/arrears of pay/BAH.
*54.4.1.3. Immediately sends DFAS-JMCBC/DE any input which pertains to member's account
for which MPF is input source for processing.

*54.4.2. DFAS-JMCBC/DE. Upon receipt of the initial death message:

*54.4.2.2. DELETED.

*54.4.2.3.      Sends message to FSO making beneficiary payment, requesting specific documents
and assistance in disbursing Arrears of Pay (AOP), and death gratuity if applicable. Also requests
servicing FSO forward CMS case to assisting base (when applicable) with requests for
documentation from them.

*54.4.2.4.      Upon receipt of documentation, computes amount of pay due, makes adjustments,
and makes all payments for AOP, including amounts due for travel and per diem. Pays BAH, up
to 365 days, as applicable.

*54.4.2.5.      Prepares final settlement letter (AOP paid or debt established), furnishes applicable
forms as indicated below, and a computation of final pay settlements, as appropriate, to the
beneficiary or estate.

*54.4.2.5.1. Provides TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, reflecting wage and deduction
information paid to the deceased member prior to date of death.

*54.4.2.5.2. Provides TD Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income, for the payment of arrears of
pay. If beneficiary is a foreign national, a Form 1042S is issued and taxes withheld at 25%.

54.42.5.3. DELETED.

*54.4.2.6. Upon notification from the local FSO and CAR that extreme hardship exists, and where
there is sufficient money available, makes interim payments of AOP to proper beneficiary to
alleviate hardship. Where appropriate, authorizes local FSO to make direct interim payment.

*54.4.2.7. Annotates the final disposition of AOP/debt, when case is completed, on the CMS
case with date of payment and amounts. Breaks down AOP/BAH/Travel amounts. Also annotates
if death gratuity is paid to the guardian (s) of minor child (ren).

*54.5.4. Cancels unnegotiated Air Force checks found in member's personal effects and processes
necessary DJMS transactions.

*54.5.5. Screens management case files and the deceased member's latest LES immediately.
Notifies DFAS-JMCBC/DE immediately of any unprocessed items (i.e., leave or entitlements)
which will affect the amount of unpaid pay and allowances.

*54.5.6. Contacts the Summary Courts Officer to determine if there are any debts that must be
settled from AOP. Only government-related bills such as, but not limited to, hospital bills,
telephone bills, open mess unpaid accounts, or advance travel pay may be included. Notifies
DFAS-JMCBC/DE immediately of any such debts and sends them the DD Form 139.

*54.5.8. Determines if member has any unpaid travel claims. If so, a travel voucher must be
completed and signed by the Summary Courts Officer. Computes the travel voucher and forwards
to DFAS-JMCBC/DE for payment or collection.

*54.5.9. Notifies DFAS-JMCBC/DE when a completed SF 1174 has been obtained.


*54.5.10. Forwards the following documents to DFAS-JMCBC/DE within 14 duty days:

*54.5.10.4. DD Form 93/VRED.

*54.5.10.5. Copy of CTHR print, with unsettled advances highlighted.

*54.5.10.8. Sends CMS case to DFAS-JMCBC/DE including information shown in figure 54-2,
Casualty Information Checklist.

*54.5.11.1. Prepares DD Form 397 and EFT payment or check payable to beneficiary.

*54.5.11.4. Furnishes the DD Form 397, SF 1174, and DD Form 2058 to the CAR and advises
that DD Form 397 must be signed before the gratuity payment is released. If the beneficiary for
death gratuity and AOP is the same person, the SF 1174 and DD Form 2058 should be signed at
the same time, if possible.

*54.5.11.6. Processes PE03 to report death gratuity payment if payment made locally.

*54.5.11.8. Forwards to DFAS-JMCBC/DE, within 14 duty days:

*54.5.11.10. Guardianship documentation upon receipt.

*54.7.2. Adjustments. If unnegotiated check or any factors affecting pay and allowances are
discovered after AOP payment has been made or after the appropriate documents have been
submitted to DFAS-DE, inform DFAS-DE of facts by phone and follow up with a case in CMS,
including documents and letter of explanation. DFAS-DE makes required adjustments.

*54.7.3. DFAS-DE Collection Actions. DFAS-DE will take action to recover erroneous payment.
When these procedures have been followed and there is no lack of good faith or due care, the FSO
who made the erroneous payment may apply for relief under DoDFMR, Vol 5.

*54.8. Casualties Other Than Death of Member.

54.8.1. Members who are injured in a combat zone may be entitled to certain pays and allowances
while hospitalized as a result of those injuries. Chapter 56 of this manual contains information on
eligibility for combat zone tax exclusion (CZTE) while hospitalized for injuries and/or illnesses
incurred while in a combat zone. See paragraph 56.24 for detailed information.

*Figure 54.5. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Payment for Death
Gratuity.

CHARACTER                                          DESCRIPTION
 POSITION

     1-5       0PE03/06 OR APE05(ONE TRAILER RECORD)

    6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

    15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME

    20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER

     26        GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
               A--AIR FORCE
               B—ARMY
               C—NAVY
               D—MARINES
               G--COAST GUARD
               M--STATE DEPARTMENT

    27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT FROM INPUT FSO;
               OTHERWISE, BLANK

     31        OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

    32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER

    40-45      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER

    46-48      BUDGET PROJECT ID: 593 FOR ALL PAYMENTS--DEATH GRATUITY

    49-50      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
               01—OFFICER
               02—ENLISTED

    51-52      FISCAL YEAR FOR WHICH DEATH GRATUITY WAS EARNED

               NOTE:
               A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A CARD CONTAINING
               THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO
               BE CORRECTED.
*56.3.2. Exemption from Withholding. When a member submits a TD Form W-4 claiming
exemption from income tax withholding, advise the member that he or she must have had no tax
liability in the previous year, and anticipate no tax liability in the current year. The exemption is
only valid for the current calendar year. If, during the year, a member determines that he or she
will have a tax liability in the current year, a new TD Form W-4 claiming a valid marital status
and number of allowances, must be submitted. If a member determines that he/she will not have
a tax liability in the next calendar year, a new TD Form W-4 must be submitted after December
1st of the current year, but no later than February mid-month of the next calendar year. If a new
TD Form W-4 is not submitted, and the FJ04 transaction has not processed by February month
end restructure, FITW will resume in March at the withholding rate of single with zero
exemptions. NOTE: DJMS stops withholding for regular wages only; withholding on one-time
entitlements continues. For a manual refund of withholding from one-time entitlements, send a
message to DFAS.

*56.4.1. Central Site. DFAS is required to submit information to the IRS when so directed, via
written notice or in future published guidance. Additionally, DFAS may be required to withhold
income tax at a higher rate if notified to do so by the IRS.

*56.4.1.1. DELETED.

*56.4.1.2. DELETED.

*56.4.2.1.1. The FSO processes an FJ04 transaction in the month of receipt to update member’s
MMPA in accordance with the IRS letter. This is the only exception that authorizes the FSO to
change the federal withholding factors without a signed TD Form W-4 from the member. After
processing the FJ04 transaction, forward the original IRS determination letter to the DFRC with
the DTL, retain a copy with the file copy DTL, and send a copy to the member. Any
determination letters from the IRS which are sent directly to DFAS will be forwarded to the
member's FSO (active duty only) for action.

*56.4.2.1.2. If, after receipt of the determination letter, the member brings in a more current
determination letter authorizing a larger number of exemptions or exempt status, the FSO must
honor the new determination letter, and take action to update the member’s MMPA accordingly.
No FITW refunds will be given for the period of lower allowances or non-exempt status.

*56.6.1.1. Current Year Federal Taxable Wages and/or Withholdings. Contact the appropriate
DFAS office to correct current year Federal taxable wages and/or withholdings, as applicable.
DFAS is responsible for adjusting taxable wages and withholdings for active duty members (“A”
status), separated members (“T” and “V” status) without a debt, and Debt Establishment for
members who separated with a debt. Claims Branch issues TD Form W-2 on correction of
record cases (BCMR).

*56.14.2. The FSO processes a FID FE to start, stop, cancel, or change APEIC. See Figure 56-
11 for transaction format.
*56.16.3. DJMS produces an undeclared state taxing authority report twice a year, in April and
November, which is placed out on SAR under mode JFATAX, report ID FA0141s. It is very
important to get these members’ state taxing authority updated; members who have an
undeclared state taxing authority (state code 98) will encounter state tax filing issues at a later
date. In addition, the member’s MMPA will not convert to DIMHRS.

*56.16.4. Members whose state taxing authority is 99 are claiming to be residents of foreign
countries. If the tax-auth-state in the accession transaction was 99, contact the MPF to process
the MH01 to identify the member’s resident country. Otherwise, process an MG04 to correct the
tax-auth-state to a valid us state code. See paragraph 56.18.2.3 for additional information.
*56.17.1. Central Site. DFAS will correct or adjust a member's current year state taxable wages.
Prior year state taxable wages may only be corrected by DFAS if a DFAS system or
administrative error resulted in incorrect reporting of wages on the TD Form W-2 and/or
MMPA. In this situation, the FSO contacts DFAS and requests issuance of a TD Form W-2C.
(A member's failure to report a change in state taxing authorities is not a DFAS administrative
error).

*56.17.2. FSO Responsibilities. Based on the TD Form W-4, input an FK04 transaction with
the state withholding factors. See figure 56-15 for transaction layout, and field input edits. Each
transaction includes marital status, number of allowances, additional amount of withholding, and
exemption from withholding, if applicable.

*56.18.1. SITW exemption for Native American military members. The Soldiers’ and Sailors’
Civil Relief Act (SSCRA) prohibits states from taxing the military compensation of a Native
American service member who claims a tribal reservation as his/her residence and who earns
military compensation off the reservation by virtue of compliance with military orders. In order
to comply with the law, the member must be able to claim as his/her state of legal
residence/domicile, a federally recognized tribal reservation or Indian country. In addition, the
member must be an enrolled member of that federally recognized Native American tribe.

*56.18.2.1.     New members must declare a state of legal residency within 6 months of
accession, using DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate, unless the E103
transaction included this information. See Figure 56-3. This form is also used for members who
want to change their state of legal residence. The DD Form 2058 is to be completed in triplicate.
The original is forwarded to the DFRC with the DTL, a copy is retained with the file copy DTL,
and a copy is provided to the member. FSOs must input a MG04 transaction using the DD Form
2058 as their source document. See Figure 56-20. Valid input for TAX-AUTH-CITY-STATE is
‘0’ followed by the 2 digit numeric state code.

*56.18.2.2. The change is effective from the first calendar day of the processing month in which
the MG04 transaction is processed. State taxing authority data codes, and administrator
addresses are listed in Attachment 6. A leave and earning statement (LES) remark is output in
the month the MG04 transaction processes.
*56.18.3.2. Members must file a TD Form W-4 (both scenarios above), DD Form 2058-1, state
income tax exemption test certificate (scenario #1 above), or specific state required form (if
applicable). See figures 56-1 and 56-8, respectively, for TD Form W-4 and DD Form 2058-1.
Reference paragraphs 56.19.1 through 56.19.6.

*56.18.3.4. Due to state residency requirements, members claiming exemption from SITW, who
PCS into their state of legal residency (based on location of servicing FSO in LG entry), will
systematically be changed to SITW deduction election single (S) with zero (0) exemptions. The
member must submit a TD Form W-4 to change this as applicable, and the FSO is to process the
FK04 transaction. However, the system will not automatically change the SITW deduction
election to “N” when a member PCSs from his/her state of legal residence.

*56.19.1.1. Arizona Form A-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate, is used when a
member changes withholding percentage. Withholding percentages allowed by Arizona are
listed in Attachment 15.

*56.19.5.1. DELETED.

*56.19.5.1.1. DELETED.

*56.19.5.1.2. DELETED.

*56.19.5.1.3. DELETED.

*56.19.5.2. DELETED.

*56.19.5.3. DELETED.

*56.23.2. For Officers. Officers may continue all or part of their FITW/SITW while in a combat
zone. Officers requesting continuation of withholding must submit either a TD Form W-4, or a
request indicating whether all, or part of the normal withholding should continue to be deducted.
A copy of the request (used in lieu of TD Form W-4) authorizing FSOs to continue withholding
should be maintained the same as a TD Form W-4. See Figure 56-8. The CZ-DEDTN field in
the 23, or CZ-DEDTCN field of the FL, transaction will contain “0” if CZTE is not authorized.
Input one of the codes indicated in Figure 56-9 if CZTE is authorized.

*56.24. CZTE While Hospitalized. Members are entitled to CZTE for any month they are
hospitalized, or re-hospitalized, as a result of wounds, disease or injury incurred while serving in
a CZ, or QHDA. Use the FID FL to report their entitlement to CZTE. CZTE entitlement should
be documented by medical opinion from a military physician that states the member's
hospitalization is the result of wounds, disease or injury incurred while serving in a combat zone.
FID FL must be reentered each month, prior to month-end restructure, when a member’s
hospitalization covers more than one month. See chapter 13 for additional information
concerning CZTE entitlement for members wounded while on duty in a covered area.
*56.27.2.3. Report (FL03). Used to report CZTE only when the member was in a CZ not
designated to receive HF/IDP IAW DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 44. Report CZTE for
months indicated. The start and stop months must be prior to the current month, or the
transaction will reject. FL03 transactions processed for the current year will reduce year-to-date
Federal and state taxable wages, and refund withholdings for the months indicated depending on
the CZ-DEDTCN election code. When input for prior years, prior year Federal and state taxable
wages will be adjusted if within IAS. Otherwise, a management notice is sent to DFAS to adjust
prior year Federal and state taxable wages. A TD Form W-2C will be issued from the 5-Year
Tax History system correcting taxable wages only. Prior year withholdings are not adjusted.

*Figure 56.7. IT 4 MIL, Military Employee Exemption from Withholding.
*57.1. Description. General provisions and descriptions governing all allotments of pay may be
found in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 41 through 43. The minimum monthly amount for
allotments is $1 except when there are specific guidelines elsewhere in this chapter. Allotments
should not be started to individual addresses, unless the member has obtained an individual waiver
from his or her commander or the allotment is to an overseas country not serviced by the Overseas
Military Banking Program. All allotments should be started using the company code format with a
company code obtained from Table 050. DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop or Change
an Allotment (Figure 57-1), is the preferred form for allotment changes. However SF 1199A,
Direct Deposit Sign-up Form (Figure 57-2); FMS Form 2231, Faststart Direct Deposit (Figure 38-
3); and DD Form 2762, Direct Deposit Authorization (Figure 38-3) may be used for allotments to
financial institutions.

*57.2.4. Method of Payment. Allotments to personal savings or checking accounts are delivered
via EFT. Other allotments are sent in a blanket check (if an allottee receives multiple allotments).

*57.2.10. DELETED.

*57.7. Payment to Allottees. All allottees receiving more than 25 allotments of pay must receive
payment either via EFT or by blanket check. No individual checks will be sent. All new company
codes established will be established as blanket recipients if they are unable to receive EFT (not a
financial institution). Advise members that if the potential allottee refuses to accept blanket checks
or EFT, the allotment will be stopped and other arrangements for payment are required.

*58.3.3.1. When bonds are held in safekeeping, member may request bond status and also obtain
any or all bonds upon written request. Members may fax in their written requests for release of
bonds held in safekeeping to DFAS-IN, Disbursing Operations/JFD, DSN 699-4339, commercial
317-510-4339. Fax must include, bond owner name, SSN, address to which the bonds should be
mailed, and a phone number in case there are questions, and the request must be signed. Written
requests may also be mailed to: DFAS-IN, Disbursing Operations/JFD, 8899 E. 56th Street,
Indianapolis, IN 46249. Questions may also be directed to DFAS-IN Disbursing Operations at
commercial 317-510-8539.

*62.5.2.1.             DFAS-CL datafax number:
                                   DSN 580-6924 or commercial (216) 522-6924.
                       DFAS-CL inquiry number:
                            DSN 580-6545 or commercial (216) 522-6545.
                       DFAS-CL message address:
                            Defense Finance and Accounting Service
                            Cleveland Center: Code FMCS
                            1240 East 9th Street
                            Cleveland, Ohio 44199-2055
                       DFAS-CL mailing address:
                            DFAS-Cleveland
                            Attn: Code JFLAGA
                            1240 East 9th Street
                            Cleveland, Ohio 44199-2055

*68.18. FSO Responsibilities.

*68.18.1. Recommend that the member access myPay and process the start, stop, change, or
cancel transactions. If member is unable to access, myPay, provide assistance in gaining access
and follow procedures in 68.18.2 for the current request.

*68.18.2. Input TSP-U-1 information, for members unable to access myPay, using the D101,
D102, D104, and D106 transactions (see figures 68-1, 68-2, 68-3, and 68-4). See figure 68-5 for
TSP-U-1. For bases that have cutover to the AFFSC, scan the TSP-U1 into EIM for AFFSC
processing.

*68.18.3. To collect and process “Claim for Reimbursement of Thrift Savings Plan (TSP)
Breakage and Make-up Contribution's” from the member. These forms and required associated
documents will be forwarded to DFAS for processing.
*68.19.2.2. DELETED.
*68.22.4. TSP Catch-up is posted to DJMS as a DS debt, Type H. The TSP website is manually
updated to reflect as a late payment, retroactive to the month prior. The contributions accrue
interest, effective as of the end-of-month deducted.
*68.22.5. DJMS updates taxable wages each month, with the exception of December and the
month the statutory limit is reached, to reflect the catch-up contributions. The wages for the
month the member reaches the statutory limit are updated manually, posting after month-end
restructure, and the taxes are refunded during that next month. DFAS also manually updates the
taxable wages for the year-to-date to include December's contribution, but that isn't
accomplished until after year-end, so no refunds are made. For those members who deposit all
of their catch-up contributions in December, the taxes withheld on the amounts that should have
been deferred will only be available upon filing their tax returns.

*73.3.8. DELETED.

*73.8.1. Screens the entries in Section I of DD Form 2789, clarifies any discrepancies, and
completes Section II of DD Form 2789 (see Figure 73-1). Attaches supporting documents,
including a detailed debt computation.

*73.8.2. Transmits waiver application with supporting documentation in original and one copy to
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, 8899 East 56th Street, Dept. 3300 (Waivers/Remissions),
Indianapolis IN 46249-3300, upon completion of Section II of DD Form 2789. Keep a complete
copy of waiver package in the FSO management case file. (See paragraph 69.10.) Waiver
packages may also be submitted, via email, to remissionwaiverindy@dfas.mil. MAJCOM/FMF
functions are not required to routinely review waiver cases but FMF may choose to become
involved. If group submission, contact JFEAB before processing.

*79.3.2. DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher completed to receive payment for
travel and reimbursable expenses if entitled.

*79.4.2. When an evacuation has been ordered, dependents or member request payment for
evacuation allowances and complete DD Form 1351-2 to receive payment for travel and
reimbursable expenses.

*79.5.1. Evacuation payment. DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 32, contains authority for the
advance pay upon evacuation of military dependents. The conditions and amounts payable are
contained in table 32-1. These advances are repaid per table 32-2. Use DD Form 1337 as the
controlling document for all evacuation payments. Do not make emergency allowance payments
without it. See table 79-1 for action to take if DD Form 1337 is lost, stolen, or destroyed. Use
DD Form 1351-6 and/or DD Form 117 to make payment. Report payment as PA transaction per
figure 35-4. Use DD Form 1351-2 for payment of per diem for dependents while at safe haven.
                                       *Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program
AFI 31-205, The Air Force Corrections System
AFI 32-6004, Furnishings Management
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management
AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional
Continuing Education)
AFI 36-2603, Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFI 36-2906, Personal Financial Responsibility
AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program
AFI 36-3004, Aviator Continuation Pay (ACP) Program
AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances for Air Force Personnel
AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements
AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention, Retirement and Separation
AFI 41-120, Medical Resource Operations
AFI 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment
AFI 51-501, Tort Claims
AFI 65-202, Administration of a Base Financial Management Quality Assurance Program
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property
AFMAN 36-8001, Reserve Personnel Participation and Training Procedures
AFMAN 65-116 V2, Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) Unit Procedures Excluding
FSO
AFMAN 65-116 V3, Defense Joint Military Pay System - Reserve Component (DJMS-RC),
DFAS-DE 7000.4-R, Accounting for Obligations
DFAS-DE 7010.1-R, General Accounting and Finance Systems at Base Level
DFAS-DE 7010.2-R, Commercial Transactions at Base Level
DFAS-DE 7010.3-R, Travel Transactions at Base Level
DoDFMR, Volume 5, Disbursing Policy and Procedures
DODFMR, Volume 7A, Military Pay Policy and Procedures - Active Duty and Reserve Pay,
DoDFMR, Volume 7B, Military Pay Policy and Procedures for Retired Pay
DoDFMR, Volume 7C, Special Military Pay/Personnel Programs and Operating Procedures,
DoDI 1338-18, Armed Forces Clothing Monetary Allowance Procedures
JFTR, Joint Federal Travel Regulation
JTR, Joint Travel Regulation

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AAFES - Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ACCS - Automated Case Control System
ACIP - Aviator Continuation Incentive Pay
ACP - Aviator Continuation Pay
ADSN - Accounting and Disbursing Station Number
AFAS - Air Force Aid Society
AFPC - Air Force Personnel Center
AFSC - Air Force Specialty Code
AI - Action Indicator
AIP – Assignment Incentive Pay
AWOL - Absent Without Leave
BAH - Basic Allowance for Housing
BAS - Basic Allowance for Subsistence
BITS - Base Information Transfer System.
COLA - Cost of Living Allowance
COMBAT SGLI – Combat Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance
CONUS - Continental US, lower 48, not including Alaska or Hawaii
CMAB - Clothing Maintenance Allowance - Basic
CMAI - Clothing Maintenance Allowance - Initial
CMAS - Clothing Maintenance Allowance – Standard
CMS – Case Management System
CSB – Career Status Bonus
CZTE - Combat Zone Tax Exclusion
DDLDS - Date Departed Last Duty Station
DDP - Dependent Dental Program
DEERS - Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
DFAS-DE - Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Denver Center
DFAS-IN - Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Indianapolis Center
DIREP - Difficulty Reporting System
DJMS - Defense Joint Military Pay System
DJMS-AC - Defense Joint Military Pay System - Active Component
DJMS-RC - Defense Joint Military Pay System - Reserve Component
DoDFMR - Department of Defense Financial Management - Regulation, formerly DoDPM
DMDC - Defense Manpower Data Center
DOE - Date of Enlistment
DOPMA - Defense Officer Personnel Management Act
DOS - Date of Separation
DROR - Daily Register of Rejects
DROT - Daily Register of Transactions
DTL - Document Transmittal Listing
DTR - Daily Transaction Record
DVA - Department of Veterans' Affairs
EFTS - Electronic Funds Transfer System
EOM - End of Month
ESCCP - Engineering and Scientific Career Continuation Pay
ETS - Expiration Term of Service
FDP - Foreign Duty Pay
FICA - Federal Insurance Contribution Act (Social Security Tax)
FID - Format ID
FITW - Federal Income Tax Withholding
FMFIA - Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act
FO - Financial Organization
FSA - Family Separation Allowance
FSGLI – Family Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance
FSH – Family Separation Housing
FSO - Financial Services Office or Officer
GSU - Geographically Separated Unit
HARM – Host Aviation Resource Management
HDIP - Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay
HDP-L/HDP-M – Hardship Duty Pay – Location /Hardship Duty Pay - Mission
HFP - Hostile Fire Pay
HMO - Housing Management Office or Officer
IAS - Immediate Access Storage
IDP - Imminent Danger Pay
IRS - Internal Revenue Service
ISI - Input Station Identifier
JBIT - Central Site Unit Address
JDC - JUMPS Data Collection
JFTR - Joint Federal Travel Regulation
JLES - Central Site LES Address File
JPPSO - Joint Personal Property Shipping Office
LES - Leave and Earnings Statement
MAFR - Merged Accountability and Fund Reporting
MAJCOM - Major Command
MER - Month-End Restructure
MGIB - Montgomery GI Bill
MIA - Missing In Action
MILPDS – Military Personnel Data System
MM - Mid Month
MMPA - Master Military Pay Account
MPE/F - Military Personnel Element/Flight
MPO - Military Pay Order
MSP - Multi-Year Special Pay
MTF - Military Medical Treatment Facility
NAFI - Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentalities
NOC - Notification of Change
NPA - Net Pay Advice
OCONUS - Outside the Continental US; includes Alaska and Hawaii
OHA - Overseas Housing Allowance
OPR - Office of Primary Responsibility
OTS - Officer Training School
PAS - Personnel Accounting Symbol
PCN - Product Control Number
PCS - Permanent Change of Station
PDS - Permanent Duty Station
PFR - Personal Financial Record
POA - Power of Attorney
PRA - Pay Record Accessibility
PSC - Postal Service Center
PSMC - Personal Statement of Military Compensation
RIF - Reduction in Force
RMS - Report Management System
SAF - Secretary of the Air Force
SDAP - Special Duty Assignment Pay
SDP - Savings Deposit Program
SGLI – Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance
SITW - State Income Tax Withholding
SMA - Subject Matter Areas
SOMPO - Summary of Military Pay Obligations
SRB - Selective Reenlistment Bonus
SSN - Social Security Number
SWF - Separation Work File
TAFMSD - Total Active Federal Military Service Date
TAMP - Transition Assistance Management Program
TASO - Terminal Area Security Officer
TDY - Temporary Duty
TLA - Temporary Lodging Allowance
TLE - Temporary Lodging Expense
TSGLI – Traumatic Injury Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance
VEAP - Veterans' Educational Assistance Program
VGLI - Veteran's Group Life Insurance


Adopted Forms.

AF Form 40A, Authorization for Individual Inactive Duty Training
AF Form 48, Source Document Reject Control Slip
AF Form 118, Refund of Tuition Assistance - Education Services Program
AF Form 165, General Power of Attorney
AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report
AF Form 458, Statement of Tour of Duty
AF Form 618, Medical Board Report
AF Form 656, Clothing Request and Receipt
AF Form 657, Personal Clothing Records - Female Airman (Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard)
AF Form 658, Personal Clothing Records - Male Airman (Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard)
AF Form 771, Accounting of Disclosures
AF Form 831, Special Power of Attorney
AF Form 901, Reenlistment Eligibility Annex to DD Form 4
AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour
AF Form 985, Report of Travel Time/Leave (JUMPS)
AF Form 1227, Authority for Tuition Assistance - Education Services Program
AF Form 1613, Statement of Service
AF Form 1881, Hostile Fire Pay Certification and MPO
AF Form 1887, Request and Authorization for Aeronautical Orders
AF Form 1969, Officer Uniform Allowance Certification
AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change
AF Form 3125, General Purpose
AF Form 3070, Record of Nonjudicial Punishment Proceedings
AF Form 3071, Record of Recommended Non-judicial Punishment Proceedings
AF Form 3540, Do-It Yourself (DITY) Move Certification
DD Form 4, Enlistment/Reenlistment Document - Armed Forces of the United States
DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data
DD Form 114, Military Pay Order
DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher
DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization
DD Form 173/2, Joint Message Form (1-1 (Black Ink)), (1-2 (Red Ink))
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss
DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty
DD Form 362, Statement of Charges/Cash Collection Voucher
DD Form 397, Claims Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment
DD Form 504, Request and Receipt for Health and Comfort Supplies
DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
DD Form 1155, Order for Supplies or Services/Request for Quotations
DD Form 1299, Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property
DD Form 1300, Report of Casualty
DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay and Allowance
DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher
DD Form 1351-6, Multiple Payments List
DD Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence-Certification
DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation Allowance
DD Form 1588, Record of Travel Payment
DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel
DD Form 2090, Government Property Lost or Damaged (GPLD) Survey Certificate
DD Form 1588, Record of Travel Payment
DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate
DD Form 2058-1, State Income Tax Exemption Test Certificate
DD Form 2278, Do-It-Yourself Move and Counseling Checklist
DD Form 2366, Montgomery G.I. Bill Act of 1984 (MGIB)
DD Form 2367, Individual Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) Report
DD Form 2494, Tricare – Active Duty Family Member (FMIP) Dental Plan Enrollment Election
DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop or Change an Allotment
DD Form 2559, Savings Bond Allotment Authorization/Active Duty or Retired Pay
DD Form 2560, Advance Pay Certification/Authorization
DD Form 2572, Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Package Transfer Actions
DD Form 2789, Waiver/Remission of Indebtedness Application
DFAS-DE Form 131, Dependency Statement - Ward of a Court
DFAS DE Form 705, Certificate for Income Tax Adjustment
DFAS Form 702, Leave and Earnings Statement (LES)
DFAS Form 703, Net Pay Advice (NPA)
DFAS-DE Form 1856, Statement of Understanding Basic Allowance for Quarters - Dependents
DFAS-DE Form 1863, Dependency Determinations Control Log
DFAS-DE Form 1865, Dependency Statement - Child Born Out of Wedlock Under Age 21
DFAS-DE Form 1866, Dependency Statement - Incapacitated Child Over Age 21
DFAS-DE Form 1867, Dependency Statement - Full-Time Student 21 - 22 Years of Age
DFAS-DE Form 1868, Dependency Statement - Parent
DFAS-DE Form 2429, Dependency Discrepancy Report
OF Form 1017, Journal Voucher
PD Form 3062, Claim for Relief on Account of Loss, Theft or Destruction of United States
Savings Bond After Valid Issue but Prior to Receipt by Owner, Co-owner, or Beneficiary
SBD-2104, Authorization for purchase and request for change United States Series EE Savings
Bonds
SF 502, Medical Record – Narrative Summary
SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal
SF 1047, Public Voucher for Refunds
SF 1164, Claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business
SF 1080, Voucher for Transfers Between Appropriations and/or Funds
SF 1081, Voucher and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits
SF 1098, Schedule of Canceled or Undelivered Checks
SF 1174, Claim for Unpaid Compensation of Deceased Member of the Uniformed Service
SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form
SF 1219, Statement of Accountability
SS Form 5, Application for a Social Security Number
TD Form 668-W, Statement of Personal Exemptions and Filing Status
TD Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income
TD Form 1099-R, Distributions
TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement
TD Form W-2C, Corrected Wage and Tax Statement
TD Form W-4, Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate
TD Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate
TD Form 2159, Payroll Deduction Agreement
Forms Prescribed.
AF Form 220, Request Authorization and Pay Order Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS)
AF Form 265, AFO Payment Authorization (JUMPS)
AF Form 350, Separation Pay Worksheet
AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic Allowance for
Quarters (BAQ), or Dependency Redetermination
AF Form 987, Recertification Statement for Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ), Variable
Housing Allowance (VHA),Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA), Cost of Living Allowance
(COLA), and Family Separation Allowance (FSA)
AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment of an Advance Housing Allowance
AF Form 1121, Payment Suppression Register (JUMPS)
AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal (JUMPS)
AF Form 1357, Request for Temporary Lodging Allowance
AF Form 1373, MPO Document Control Log Transmittal
AF Form 1486, Unit Leave Control Log
AF Form 1745, Address Change Form
AF Form 2070, JUMPS Pay Accessibility Roster
AF Form 2451, Financial Statement - Remission of Indebtedness (LRA)
                                       *Attachment 15A

 FEDERAL INCOME TAX WITHHOLDING (FITW) FOR WAGES PAID BEGINNING
                  IN APRIL OF CALENDAR YEAR 2009.
         FITW RATE FOR ONE-TIME PAYMENTS REMAINS AT 25%
             SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE (FICA), AND
       ADVANCED EARNED INCOME CREDIT (EIC) PAYMENT RATES
               (BASED ON MONTHLY PAYROLL PERIOD)

FITW

A. Withholding allowance--subtract $304.17 for each exemption claimed by the member.

B. If member is single or head of household, and

         WAGES ARE                  THEN THE AMOUNT OF INCOME TAX TO BE WITHHELD
                                                         IS
 OVER      BUT        NOT                  THE            PLUS          TIMES THE
                      OVER                SUM OF          RATE            EXCESS
                                                                           OVER

      $0                 $598                      $0               0%                       $0
   $598                  $867                      $0              10%                    $598
   $867                 $3,017                 $26.90              15%                    $867
 $3,017                 $5,544               $349.40               25%                   $3,017
 $5,544               $14, 467               $981.15               28%                   $5,544
$14, 467              $31, 250              $3,479.59              33%                  $14,467
$31,250             AND OVER                $9,017.98              35%                  $31,250

C. If member is married, and

         WAGES ARE                 THEN THE AMOUNT OF INCOME TAX TO BE WITHHELD
                                                        IS
 OVER       BUT       NOT                  THE           PLUS          TIMES THE
                      OVER               SUM OF          RATE           EXCESS
                                                                         OVER

      $0                 $1,313                    $0               0%                      $0
  $1,313                 $2,038                    $0              10%                  $1,313
  $2,038                 $6,304                $72.50              15%                  $2,038
  $6,304                 $9,844              $712.40               25%                  $6,304
  $9,844                $18,050             $1,597.40              28%                  $9,844
 $18,050                $31,725             $3,895.08              33%                 $18,050
$31,725   AND OVER   $8,407.83   35%   $31,725
FICA

Taxable wage base for Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance (a.k.a. Social Security or FICA)
is $106,800 at a withholding rate of 6.2%. Additionally, all Medicare income is taxed at the rate of
1.45%. The combined rate for FICA and Medicare is 7.65%.

EIC

EIC is based on gross wages, and does not require the deduction for withholding allowances.
Advance EIC payments apply only to employees eligible for the credit. Eligibility requirements are
shown on Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate. For 2009, the maximum
wage amount is $35,463 and maximum advance EIC payment is $1,826. The following tables are
the percentage method used by DJMS to compute advance EIC payments:

A. If member is single, or married without the spouse filing a form W-5:

AMOUNT OF WAGES BEFORE                                        AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IS:
DEDUCTING WITHHOLDING
ALLOWANCES:
       OVER     BUT NOT OVER

                0                    $745                     20.40% OF WAGES
            $745                    $1,368                    $152
           $1,368               $99,999.99                    $152 LESS 9.59% OF WAGES IN
                                                                   EXCESS OF $1,368


B.     If member is married, and both spouses file a form W-5:

AMOUNT OF WAGES BEFORE                                        AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IS:
DEDUCTING WITHHOLDING
ALLOWANCES:
       OVER     BUT NOT OVER

                0                    $372                     20.40% OF WAGES
             $372                    $892                     $76
             $892               $99,999.99                    $76 LESS 9.59% OF WAGES IN
                                                                  EXCESS OF $892


NOTE: FITW information is also available for inquiry through DJMS on-line access as Table 073.
FICA (Social Security and Medicare) information is also available for inquiry through DJMS on-
line Table 072, EIC Information is available for inquiry through DJMS on-line Table 094.
                                         Attachment 15B

                    GENERAL STATE INCOME TAX INFORMATION


*Arizona(AZ)           04             YES                 NO (Note 6)        0%

*Ohio(OH)                   39          YES                    YES                   3.5%

*New Mexico(NM)             35          YES                NO (Note 7)                0%

*NOTE: 6. The state of North Dakota computes SITW as a percentage of federal income tax
withholding (FITW) for regular payroll. North Dakota uses 14% of FITW for one time
withholding (this equates to approximately 3.9%). Effective 1 January 2006, compensation
received for active service as a member of the military (active duty, Reserve, or Guard),
including combat zone excluded pay, may be subtracted when computing Arizona adjusted gross
income. Additional information on treatment of military income can be found in Arizona
Department of Revenue Publication 704 (www.azdor.gov/brochure/704.pdf).

NOTE: 7. In 2007, New Mexico passed legislation which says: Armed Forces Salaries.--A
salary paid by the United States to a taxpayer for active duty service in the armed forces of the
United States is exempt from state income taxation.

*Attachment 15B, information for various states was updated to read:

*ARIZONA
State Code: 04
Implementation Date: 1 Feb 1991
Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2006
One-time entitlements are taxed at percentage of
Federal withholding elected by member for SITW

*NEW MEXICO
State Code: 35
Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2007
One-time entitlements are taxed at 8.2 percent

*OHIO
State Code: 39
Implementation Date: 1 September 1978
Amendment Date: 1 January 2007
One-time entitlements are taxed at 3.5 percent
                                        Attachment 17

                              COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD


*Attachment 17, Chagos Archipelago added as follows:
*CHAGOS ARCHIPELAGO                                                            IO
 Includes the Island of Diego Garcia

*KOSOVO                                                                        KV
 Formerly part of Serbia

*MAURITIUS                                                                      MP
 Includes Rodriques island; Agalega Islands; and Cargados
 Carajos Shoals.

*SERBIA                                                                              SR
 Blocked country. Formerly Srbija of Yugoslavia and includes the province of
Vojvodina.
                                  Attachment 19
                             FORMAT IDENTIFICATION
                                 (FORMAT ID)

*12   Flying Duty Pay,          Trans/ FSO-A          C 22
      Including CEFIP HDIP      Entry
      And ACIP

*14   Hardship Duty Pay,        Trans/ FSO-A          C 18


*34   IEB                       Trans/ Computer/MPF   C 12
                                Entry

*45   FSH-O                     Trans/ FSO-A          C 30
                                Entry

*66   Interim VHA,              Trans/ FSO-A          C 26
      Pre-1998

*67   FSH-B                     Trans/ FSO-A          C 26


*68   VHA, part of BAH          Trans/ FSO-A          C 26

*Management Notices             Notice Computer       A 22
                                          Attachment 20

             TRANSACTIONS THAT WILL NOT PROCESS IN “T” STATUS


*A20.4. All other transactions should process if the member's record is in "T" status. If you
discover one that will not, notify your MAJCOM. MAJCOMs notify DFAS-JMCAA/DE.
                                       Attachment 22

                 AIR FORCE IN-PUT SOURCE INDICATOR (ISI)/
            ACCOUNTING AND DISBURSING STATION NUMBERS (ADSN)
                          IN ISI/ADSN SEQUENCE


*Attachment 22, parts A, B, and C were updated to include:

*4012   AFDW 1L 89 AW/FMFP, ANDREWS AFB, MD 20331            E-10/94   AU
*4023   AMC 0J 314 CPTS/FMFFS, LITTLE ROCK AFB, AR 72099     E-7/95    LP
*4052   ACC    OV 347 CPTS/FMFP, MOODY AFB, GA 31699         E-7/95    MT
*4061   9th AF    9th AF Shaw AFB, SC                        E-9/07
*4084          AFFSC AFFSC Ellsworth AFB, SD                 E-4/07
*4129   AFSOC 1C 27 FW/FMFP, CANNON AFB, NM 88103            E-4/97    CD
                                           Attachment 23

                                  MANAGEMENT NOTICES

*Attachment 23, add the following between the U203 and U504:
 *U502        Generated when a member, receiving HDP-L          FSO must verify member remains entitled to
              takes leave in excess of 30 days.                 HDP-L. See DoDFMR, Vol 7A, table 17-1 for
                                                                entitlement rules.



 *U503        Generated during month-end restructure            The FSO verifies with the legal office that the
              approximately 30 days before the leave expires.   member is still on appellate review leave. If so
                                                                and the 300 days of granted leave has or is
                                                                about to expire, process a leave stop (SB02)
                                                                transaction and a new leave start (SB01)
                                                                transaction.



*U504 DELETED.
BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE MANUAL 65-116 V1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                1 APRIL 2007
                                                                        Incorporating Through Change 3,
                                                                                      29 September 2008



                                                         DEFENSE JOINT MILITARY PAY SYSTEM
                                                               ACTIVE COMPONENT (DJMS-AC)
                                                                           FSO PROCEDURES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/FMP                                                  Certified by: SAF/FM (Mr. John Vonglis)
Supersedes DFAS-DEM 7073-1,                                                              Pages: 1639
           January 15, 1998

This manual provides base-level military pay policy and procedural guidance for the Air Force finance
offices. The interim change updates office symbols and regulatory references as well as incorporating
interim changes that remained outstanding when the regulation was created from an existing DFAS man-
ual.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the
field through MAJCOM publications/forms managers to SAF/FMP, 205 Dodd Blvd. Suite 101, Langley
AFB VA 23665-2789. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This IC incorporates various changes required due to the transfer of the base-level policy and procedures
function to AFAFO as well as administrative changes needed get the manual up to date. Example: Updat-
ing the requirement for verification of various flight-related entitlements. A margin bar indicates newly
revised material.
2                                                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Chapter 1— ORGANIZATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                   47
      1.1.    Description. ................................................................................................................     47
      1.2.    Financial Services Officer (FSO). .............................................................................                   47
      1.3.    FSO Servicing Policy. ................................................................................................            48
      1.4.    Chief of Customer Service/Customer Support. .........................................................                             49
      1.5.    Customer Service. ......................................................................................................          50
      1.6.    Customer Support. .....................................................................................................           51
      1.7.    Member. .....................................................................................................................     52
      1.8.    Other Government Agencies. ....................................................................................                   52
      1.9.    Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC). .........................................................................                      52
      1.10.   Other Military Services. .............................................................................................            53
      1.11.   Military Pay Operations. ............................................................................................             53
Figure 1.1.   AF Form 2070, JUMPS Pay Accessibility Roster. ...................................................                                 54
Figure 1.2.   CERTIFYING OFFICIALS ROSTER .....................................................................                                 55
Table 1.1.    Reporting Problems. .................................................................................................             56

Chapter 2— DEFENSE JOINT MILITARY PAY SYSTEM (DJMS)                                                                                             57
      2.1.    Description. ................................................................................................................     57
      2.2.    Terms Explained: .......................................................................................................          57
      2.3.    Controls. .....................................................................................................................   61
      2.4.    Documentation. ..........................................................................................................         61
      2.5.    Analyzing the MMPA. ...............................................................................................               70
      2.6.    MMPA Format. ..........................................................................................................           70
      2.7.    AUTODIN: ................................................................................................................         71
      2.8.    DTR: ..........................................................................................................................   72
Figure 2.1.   Basic Instructions For Preparing Dd Form 114, Military Pay Order ........................                                         78
Figure 2.2.   FSO Source Input Table. ..........................................................................................                79
Figure 2.3.   AF Form 2070, JUMPS Pay Accessibility Roster. ...................................................                                 82
Figure 2.4.   AF Form 1373, MPO Document Control Log - Transmittal. ...................................                                         83
Figure 2.5.   AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal. ....................................................................                          84
Figure 2.6.   Preparation of DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization. ................................                                        85
Figure 2.7.   Initiating FSO Responsibilities. ................................................................................                 86
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                        3


Figure 2.8.   DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization. ........................................................                                 87
Table 2.1.    Receiving FSO Responsibilities – DD Form 139. ....................................................                                 88
Table 2.2.    Forwarding DD Forms 139 to DFAS. ......................................................................                             89

Chapter 3— JUMPS DATA COLLECTION AND SECURITY ACCESS TO DJMS                                                                                     91

Section 3A—General Information.                                                                                                                  91
      3.1.    Description. ................................................................................................................       91
      3.2.    Terms Explained: .......................................................................................................            91
      3.3.    Key Functions: ...........................................................................................................          92
      3.4.    Applicable Trans-IDs. ................................................................................................             92

Section 3B—JDC III Instructions.                                                                                                                  92
      3.5.    Sign-on. ......................................................................................................................     92
      3.6.    Add Transactions. ......................................................................................................            93
      3.7.    Exit to DOS. ...............................................................................................................        94
      3.8.    New Cycle (New Day). ..............................................................................................                94
      3.9.    Correct Transactions. .................................................................................................             94
      3.10.   Delete Transactions. ...................................................................................................           94
      3.11.   View Transactions. ....................................................................................................             95
      3.12.   Print Transactions. .....................................................................................................          95
      3.13.   Transfer Transactions. ...............................................................................................              95
      3.14.   File Transfer. ..............................................................................................................       95

Section 3C—JDC II Instructions.                                                                                                                  96
      3.15.   Sign-on. ......................................................................................................................     96
      3.16.   JOPS. ..........................................................................................................................    96
      3.17.   JQEV. .........................................................................................................................     97
      3.18.   JUPD. .........................................................................................................................     99
      3.19.   JVSN. .........................................................................................................................    100
      3.20.   Receiving Update Results to Hard Drive or Floppy Diskette. ...................................                                     101
      3.21.   IRMACOM. ...............................................................................................................           101
      3.22.   IRMAREMOTE. ........................................................................................................               101
      3.23.   Extracting Daily Register of Transactions (DROT) Data from the Document
              Transmittal List (DTL). .............................................................................................              102
4                                                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     3.24.   Printing Output Products from Your Hard Drive or Floppy Diskette. ......................                                          103

Section 3D—System Access to DJMS.                                                                                                              103
     3.25.   Purpose. ......................................................................................................................   103
     3.26.   Assistance with Security Issues/Important Numbers to Remember. .........................                                          104
     3.27.   Appointment of DJMS TAs. ......................................................................................                   104
     3.28.   Additional TA Responsibilities. ................................................................................                  105
     3.29.   Completion of the Trusted Agent Letter. ...................................................................                       105
     3.30.   Completion of the DD Form 2875. ............................................................................                      106
     3.31.   Submission of Paperwork for DJMS USERIDs. .......................................................                                 106
     3.32.   Assignment of Profiles. ..............................................................................................            107
     3.33.   Separation of Duties. ..................................................................................................          108
     3.34.   Initial Assignment of a USERID and Password. .......................................................                              109
     3.35.   JYBM. ........................................................................................................................    114
     3.36.   Sharing of USERIDs and Passwords. ........................................................................                        114
     3.37.   USERIDS Suspension/Deletion. ................................................................................                     115
     3.38.   Changing Passwords. .................................................................................................             115
     3.39.   TA Management Tools. .............................................................................................                118
     3.40.   Security Controls. ......................................................................................................         120
     3.41.   Instructions for Monthly Validation by TAS. ............................................................                          120

Section 3E—ROTC Data Collection.                                                                                                               122
     3.42.   See DFAS-DEM 7073-3. ..........................................................................................                   122

Section 3F—Defense Milpay Office (DMO).                                                                                                        122
     3.43.   Description and General Information. .......................................................................                      122
     3.44.   DMO Functional Keys: ..............................................................................................               123
     3.45.   Logging In: ................................................................................................................      123
     3.46.   The Menu Bar: ...........................................................................................................         123
     3.47.   DMO Operational Training. ......................................................................................                  124
     3.48.   DMO Power Tools. ....................................................................................................             126
     3.49.   DMO Reports/Queries. ..............................................................................................               127
     3.50.   DMO Security Administration. ..................................................................................                   128
     3.51.   DMO Systems Administration. ..................................................................................                    130
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                5


Figure 3.1.       DMO Query Reports for DJMS-AC ..........................................................................              132
Figure 3.2.       JUMPS Data Collection III, Main Menu. .................................................................               133
Figure 3.3.       ADD Transactions, FL03-REPORT COMBAT ZONE TAX EXCLUSION. .........                                                    134
Figure 3.4.       JUMPS Data Collection III, Add Selection. .............................................................               135
Figure 3.5.       ADD Transactions, PZ03-REPORT PAYMENT VOUCHER TOTALS. ...............                                                 136
Figure 3.6.       JUMPS Data Collection III, Correct Selection. ........................................................                137
Figure 3.7.       JUMPS Data Collection III, Delete Transaction. .....................................................                  138
Figure 3.8.       DELETE Transactions, FL03-REPORT COMBAT ZONE TAX EXCLUSION. ......                                                    139
Figure 3.9.       JUMPS Data Collection III, View Selection (1). ......................................................                 140
Figure 3.10. JUMPS Data Collection III, View Selection (2). ......................................................                      140
Figure 3.11. JUMPS Data Collection III, Print Selection (1). ......................................................                     141
Figure 3.12. JUMPS Data Collection III, Print Selection (2). ......................................................                     141
Figure 3.13. Sign-On Screen. ........................................................................................................   142
Figure 3.14. Application Selection Screen. ...................................................................................          143
Figure 3.15. Jumps Online Processing System (ADSN: 3862). ..................................................                            144
Figure 3.16. Jumps Online Processing System. ............................................................................               145
Figure 3.17. Unverified Transactions Menu. ................................................................................             146
Figure 3.18. Start Basic Allowance For Subsistence (BAS). ........................................................                      147
Figure 3.19. Generalized Format. ..................................................................................................     148
Figure 3.20. Report HFP CZ-LV Balance. ....................................................................................             149
Figure 3.21. Quality Examination Menu. ......................................................................................           150
Figure 3.22. Cycle Summary. ........................................................................................................    151
Figure 3.23. Personal Data - Privacy Act Of 1974. .......................................................................               152
Figure 3.24. QE Correct Transactions. ..........................................................................................        153
Figure 3.25. Quality Examination Menu. ......................................................................................           154
Figure 3.26. QE Delete Transactions. ...........................................................................................        155
Figure 3.27. QE Delete Transactions. ...........................................................................................        156
Figure 3.28. QE Delete Transactions. ...........................................................................................        157
Figure 3.29. Request Update Results. ...........................................................................................        158
6                                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.30. Request Update Results. ...........................................................................................                  159
Figure 3.31. Update Report Selection. ..........................................................................................                  160
Figure 3.32. Update Selection. ......................................................................................................             161
Figure 3.33. Update Information. ..................................................................................................               162
Figure 3.34. Change Output Destination. ......................................................................................                    163
Figure 3.35. Request Update Results. ...........................................................................................                  164
Figure 3.36. Change Output Destination ADSN. ..........................................................................                           165
Figure 3.37. Request Update Results. ...........................................................................................                  166
Figure 3.38. Update Results. .........................................................................................................            167
Figure 3.39. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #1. .....................................................................                                168
Figure 3.40. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #2. .....................................................................                                169
Figure 3.41. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #3. .....................................................................                                170
Figure 3.42. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #4. .....................................................................                                171
Figure 3.43. Example of DROT A and C. .....................................................................................                       172
Figure 3.44. JUMPS DROT, Main Menu. ....................................................................................                          172
Figure 3.45. JUMPS DROT, Create Selection. .............................................................................                          173
Figure 3.46. End User Level Options. ...........................................................................................                  173
Figure 3.47. View of USERID. .....................................................................................................                174
Figure 3.48. TASO Level Options. ...............................................................................................                  174
Figure 3.49. Instructions for DD Form 2875 Completion. ............................................................                               175

Chapter 4— REJECTS                                                                                                                                180
        4.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................   180
        4.2.      FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................     180
        4.3.      Rejects to DFAS-DE/FJ. ............................................................................................             181
        4.4.      ACCS Viewing. .........................................................................................................         181

Chapter 5— INQUIRIES                                                                                                                              183
        5.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................   183
        5.2.      CICS MMPA Inquiry Procedures: .............................................................................                     183
        5.3.      DJMS Standard Inquiry System (DSIS). ...................................................................                        184
        5.4.      Inquiry Tables. ...........................................................................................................     185
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                                  7


        5.5.      Release of Information From Military Pay Records. .................................................                                     185
        5.6.      Types of Inquiries: .....................................................................................................               185
        5.7.      Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................             185
        5.8.      Requests for Source Documents. ...............................................................................                          186
        5.9.      Transaction File. ........................................................................................................              186
        5.10.     Transaction File. ........................................................................................................              187
Figure 5.1.       MMPA Inquiry -- Formatted Input Area. .................................................................                                 190
Figure 5.2.       DJMS CRT Inquiry. ..................................................................................................                    191
Figure 5.3.       MMPA Content. ........................................................................................................                  192
Figure 5.4.       MMPA Content. ........................................................................................................                  193
Figure 5.5.       Basic Categories. ......................................................................................................                198
Figure 5.6.       Sample MMPA Entry. ..............................................................................................                       199
Figure 5.7.       JUMPS CRT Inquiry Tables. ....................................................................................                          200
Figure 5.8.       MMPA Entries by Category and FORMAT-ID. ......................................................                                          216
Figure 5.9.       Base Inquiry Open-Case List. ...................................................................................                        234
Figure 5.10. Base Inquiry Member Data. ......................................................................................                             235
Figure 5.11. MMPA Special Inquiries. .........................................................................................                            236
Figure 5.12. Transaction Inquiries. ...............................................................................................                       237
Figure 5.13. Screen View for Transaction File. ............................................................................                               238

Chapter 6— OFFLINE REPORTING CONTROL SYSTEM                                                                                                               239
        6.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................           239
        6.2.      Functions Performed. .................................................................................................                  239
        6.3.      Operation. ..................................................................................................................           240
        6.4.      Data Communications: ..............................................................................................                     240
Figure 6.1.       Joint Service Software (JSS), Offline Reporting. .....................................................                                  241
Figure 6.2.       Joint Service Software (JSS), Data Extraction Main Menu. .....................................                                          242
Figure 6.3.         ...................................................................................................................................   245

Chapter 7— PAYROLL AND PAY PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                          246

Section 7A—Payroll.                                                                                                                                       246
        7.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................           246
8                                                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      7.2.    Payroll Processing: ....................................................................................................         246
      7.3.    Non-receipt of Paycheck - Military Pay Actions. ......................................................                           246
      7.4.    Return of Funds - Military Pay Actions: ...................................................................                      246
      7.5.    Suppression of Payment. ............................................................................................             246
      7.6.    Even-Dollar Payments. ..............................................................................................             247

Section 7B—Pay Products.                                                                                                                       247
      7.7.    Leave and Earnings Statement (LES). .......................................................................                      247
      7.8.    Net Pay Advice (NPA). .............................................................................................              248
      7.9.    TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement and TD Form W-2C, Corrected Wage
              and Tax Statement. ....................................................................................................          248
      7.10.   Personal Statement of Military Compensation (PSMC). ...........................................                                  248
      7.11.   LES Production: .........................................................................................................        248
      7.12.   NPA Production: ........................................................................................................         249
      7.13.   SC04 Transaction (JDC II and JDC III). ...................................................................                       249
      7.14.   myPay. .......................................................................................................................   250
      7.15.   Reserved for Future Use. ..........................................................................................              251
      7.16.   Reserved for Future Use. ..........................................................................................              251
      7.17.   Reserved for Future Use. ..........................................................................................              252
      7.18.   Sort Sequence. ...........................................................................................................       252
      7.19.   Reserved for Future Use. ..........................................................................................              252
      7.20.   Central Site Unit Address File. ....................................................................................             252

Section 7C—Systems Related to LES Production.                                                                                                  253
      7.21.   JLES History File. ......................................................................................................        253
      7.22.   Offline Reporting System. .........................................................................................              253
Figure 7.1.   DFAS Form 702, Defense Finance and Accounting Service Military Leave and
              Earnings Statement. ..................................................................................................           254
Figure 7.2.   DFAS Form 703, Defense Finance and Accounting Service Military Net Pay
              Advice. ......................................................................................................................   255
Figure 7.3.   AF Form 1121, Payment Suppression Register (JUMPS). .......................................                                      256
Figure 7.4.   LES Address Verification, Part I. .............................................................................                  257
Figure 7.5.   LES Address Verification, Part II. ............................................................................                  258
Figure 7.6.   LES Address Verification, Part III, Section I. ..........................................................                        259
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                            9


Figure 7.7.     LES Address Verification, Part III, Section II. .........................................................                           260
Figure 7.8.     LES Address Verification, Part IV. ..........................................................................                       261
Figure 7.9.     Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Canceled or Undeliverable Checks -
                Member's Pay. ..........................................................................................................            262
Figure 7.10. Format to Change Paying ADSN. .............................................................................                            263
Figure 7.11. Format to Change Servicing ADSN. ........................................................................                              264
Figure 7.12. Format to Suppress Local Payment. .........................................................................                            264
Figure 7.13. Format to Change LES Address Update. ..................................................................                                265

Chapter 8— BASIC PAY AND SPECIAL COMPENSATION                                                                                                       268
       8.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................       268
       8.2.     Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................         268
       8.3.     Rate. ...........................................................................................................................   268
       8.4.     Additional Compensation for Designated Positions. .................................................                                 268

Chapter 9— SPECIAL PAYS - GENERAL                                                                                                                   269
       9.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................       269
       9.2.     Payment. ....................................................................................................................       269
       9.3.     Recoupment. ..............................................................................................................          269
       9.4.     Effect on MMPA. ......................................................................................................              269

Chapter 10— SPECIAL PAY FOR MEDICAL AND DENTAL OFFICERS AND
           NURSES                                                                                                                                   270
      10.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................       270
      10.2.     Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................         270
      10.3.     Variable Special Pay (VSP). ......................................................................................                  270
      10.4.     Board Certification Pay (BCP). .................................................................................                    270
      10.5.     Additional Special Pay (ASP). ...................................................................................                   270
      10.6.     Incentive Special Pay (ISP). ......................................................................................                 271
      10.7.     Optometry Pay. ..........................................................................................................           271
      10.8.     Multi-Year Special Pay (MSP). .................................................................................                     271
      10.9.     Incentive Special Pay for Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNA). ...........                                               271
      10.10.    Dental Multiyear Retention Bonus. ...........................................................................                       271
      10.11.    Nurse Accession Bonuses. .........................................................................................                  271
10                                                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      10.12.     Payment of Bonus. .....................................................................................................         272
Figure 10.1. Formats to Start/Change, Correct or Cancel Board Certification Pay. .....................                                           273
Figure 10.2. Formats to Start, Correct or Cancel Variable Special Pay (Dentist). .......................                                         274
Figure 10.3. Formats to Start, Correct or Cancel Variable Special Pay (Physicians). ..................                                           276
Figure 10.4. Format to Report/Cancel ASP, ISP, MSP, CRNA or DMRB. .................................                                              278
Figure 10.5. Formats to Correct or Initiate Accelerated ASP, ISP, MSP, CRNA. or DMRB. .....                                                      279
Figure 10.6. Format to Start Registered Nurse/Dental Officer Accession Bonus. ........................                                           281
Figure 10.7. Formats to Start/Cancel or Correct Veterinary or Optometry Special Pay. ..............                                              282
Figure 10.8. Format to Report/Correct or Cancel Payments of Continuation Pay. .......................                                            283
Figure 10.9. Format to Release PJ Authorization. ........................................................................                        285

Chapter 11— SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY                                                                                                          286
      11.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................   286
      11.2.      Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     286
      11.3.      SDAP Rates and Authorized Codes: .........................................................................                      286
Figure 11.1. Formats to Start/Stop, Correct or Change/Cancel Special Duty Assignment Pay.......                                                  289

Chapter 12— REENLISTMENT BONUS/ENLISTMENT BONUS                                                                                                  291

Section 12A—Enlistment Bonus.                                                                                                                    291
      12.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................   291
      12.2.      Source of Input: .........................................................................................................      291

Section 12B—Reenlistment Bonus.                                                                                                                  291
      12.3.      Source of Input: .........................................................................................................      291
      12.4.      DFAS-DE Output: .....................................................................................................           291
      12.5.      FSO Action on DFAS-DE Output: ............................................................................                      292

Chapter 13— HOSTILE FIRE (HFP) AND IMMINENT DANGER PAY (IDP)                                                                                     293
      13.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................   293
      13.2.      Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     293
      13.3.      Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              293
      13.4.      HFP or IDP Qualifiers. ..............................................................................................           294
      13.5.      CZTE Withholding Election. .....................................................................................                294
      13.6.      Proration of HFP or IDP Entitlement. .......................................................................                    294
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                             11


      13.7.      HFP or IDP and CZTE. ..............................................................................................                  294
      13.8.      Effect of Leave on IDP Entitlement. .........................................................................                        294
      13.9.      HFP/IDP and FID BS Entry on the MMPA. .............................................................                                  294
Figure 13.1. Formats to Start/Stop Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay. .......................................                                          295
Figure 13.2. Formats to Report/Cancel Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay. ................................                                              297
Figure 13.3. Formats to Correct Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay. ...........................................                                         299
Figure 13.4. HFP/IDP Qualifier Codes. ........................................................................................                        301
      13.10.     Combat-Related Injury Rehabilitation Pay (CIP). .......................................................                              301
      13.11.     Pay and Allowances Continuation (PAC) Program.....................................................                                   302

Chapter 14— SPECIAL PAY-DIVING DUTY                                                                                                                   304
      14.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................        304
      14.2.      Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................          304
      14.3.      Diving Duty and Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP). .........................................                                       304
      14.4.      Diving Duty Types and Codes: ..................................................................................                      305
Figure 14.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (Diving Duty Pay). ............................................                                          306
Figure 14.2. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel, Correct or Change Diving Duty Pay. ..........                                                      307

Chapter 15— OVERSEAS TOUR EXTENSION PAY                                                                                                               309
      15.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................        309
      15.2.      Source of Input. (Workaround) .................................................................................                      309
      15.3.      Recoupment. ..............................................................................................................           309
      15.4.      Assignment Incentive Pay – Korea. ............................................................................                       309
      15.5.      Critical Skills Assignment Incentive Pay (CSAIP).                                 ................................................   310
      15.6.      Other Types of AIP. ..................................................................................................               310

Chapter 16— AVIATOR RETENTION BONUS                                                                                                                   311
      16.1.      Purpose. ......................................................................................................................      311
      16.2.      Applicability and Scope. ............................................................................................                311
      16.3.      Policy. ........................................................................................................................     311
      16.4.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................          311
      16.5.      Aviator Retention Bonus Format IDs (FID) and MMPA Entries. .............................                                             312
      16.6.      Manual Payment Computation Examples. .................................................................                               312
12                                                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 16.1. Formats to Report/Cancel or Accelerate ACP. .........................................................                               315
Figure 16.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Aviator Continuation Pay. .........                                                  316
Figure 16.3. Format to Release PR Authorization. .......................................................................                         318

Chapter 17— ENGINEERING AND SCIENTIFIC CAREER CONTINUATION PAY
           (ESCCP)                                                                                                                               319
      17.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................    319
      17.2.     Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................      319
      17.3.     Payment. ....................................................................................................................    319
Figure 17.1. AFPC Format for Engineering Scientific Bonus. .....................................................                                 320

Chapter 18— HARDSHIP DUTY PAY (HDP)                                                                                                              321
      18.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................    321
      18.2.     Source of Input of HDP Transactions (FID 14). ........................................................                           321
      18.3.     Input of the Old FDP/HDP-L Transactions for those Members who were Already
                on Station in a Qualifying (FDP) Area Before 01/01/02. ..........................................                                321
      18.4.     Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................               322
Figure 18.1. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel Hardship Duty Pay. ......................................                                      323
Figure 18.2. Format to Correct Hardship Duty Pay. .....................................................................                          325
Figure 18.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Hardship Duty Pay – Location. ...                                                   326

Chapter 19— SEA DUTY                                                                                                                             328
      19.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................    328
      19.2.     Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................      328
      19.3.     Vessel Categories. ......................................................................................................        328
      19.4.     Sea Duty Counter FID T2. .........................................................................................               328
      19.5.     Grades 31 thru 33. ......................................................................................................        329
      19.6.     Officer Under 3 Years Sea Duty. ...............................................................................                  329
      19.7.     Members Aboard Category B Vessel. .......................................................................                        329
      19.8.     Restriction. .................................................................................................................   329
      19.9.     Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................               329
      19.10.    Procedures. .................................................................................................................    329
      19.11.    Career Sea Pay Premium Input Format. ....................................................................                        331
      19.12.    Career Sea Pay Tables. ..............................................................................................            331
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                          13


Figure 19.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (for Sea Duty Pay). ...........................................                                       332
Figure 19.2. Record of Sea Duty Performance (Example). ..........................................................                                  333
Figure 19.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Submarine
             Duty. .........................................................................................................................       334
Figure 19.4. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Change Career Sea Pay. ...........................                                            336
Figure 19.5. Format to Correct Career Sea Pay. ...........................................................................                         338
Figure 19.6. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Career Sea Pay Premium. ............                                                  339
Figure 19.7. Format to Correct Sea Duty Effective Date. .............................................................                              340

Chapter 20— FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY PAY (FLPP)                                                                                                341
       20.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   341
       20.2.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     341
       20.3.       FLPP Skill Levels and Rates. ....................................................................................               341
       20.4.       Multiple Language Entitlement. ................................................................................                 341
Figure 20.1. Formats to Start or Stop/Cancel Foreign Language Proficiency Pay. ......................                                              342
Figure 20.2. Formats to Report, Change or Correct Foreign Language Proficiency Pay. ............                                                   344

Chapter 21— INCENTIVE PAYS                                                                                                                         347
       21.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   347
       21.2.       Entitlement to ACIP, HDIP, and Other Hazardous Duty Incentive Pays. .................                                           347

Chapter 22— AERIAL FLIGHT INCENTIVE PAYS                                                                                                           348
       22.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   348
       22.2.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     348
       22.3.       Processing Flight Pay Transactions: ..........................................................................                  348
       22.4.       Computer Actions - Selective Transactions: .............................................................                        349
       22.5.       Verification of DJMS and Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS): ........                                                   350
       22.6.       Workaround Procedures for Career Enlisted Flight Incentive Pay (CEFIP). ............                                            350
Figure 22.1. Computer Generated AF Form 1887, Request and Authorization for
             Aeronautical Orders. .................................................................................................                353
Figure 22.2. Formats to Start/Stop/Change, Report/Cancel or Correct ACIP, HDIP or
             AWACS. ...................................................................................................................            354
Figure 22.3. Format to Confirm ASD, OSD and AWACS Experience Date. ..............................                                                  358
Table 22.1. Incentive Pay – Supporting Documents. ...................................................................                              359
14                                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Chapter 23— PARACHUTE DUTY, FLIGHT DECK DUTY, DEMOLITION DUTY,
           EXPERIMENTAL STRESS DUTY AND OTHER INCENTIVE PAYS                                                                                       360

Section 23A—Parachute Duty.                                                                                                                        360
       23.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   360
       23.2.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     360

Section 23B—Flight Deck Duty (FDHDP).                                                                                                              360
       23.3.       Description. ................................................................................................................   360
       23.4.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     360

Section 23C—Demolition Duty.                                                                                                                       360
       23.5.       Description. ................................................................................................................   360
       23.6.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     360

Section 23D—Experimental Stress Duty.                                                                                                              361
       23.7.       Description. ................................................................................................................   361
       23.8.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     361

Section 23E—Toxic Fuels or Propellants Duty, Toxic Pesticides Duty, Dangerous Viruses or
            Bacteria Lab Duty, and Chemical Munitions Duty.                                                                                        361
       23.9.       Description. ................................................................................................................   361
       23.10.      Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     361
       23.11.      Workaround Procedures for Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP) for use of
                   Ski-Equipped Aircraft on the Ground in Antarctica or on Arctic Ice-Pack. .............                                          361
Figure 23.1. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Demolition
             Duty. .........................................................................................................................       363
Figure 23.2. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Flight Deck
             Duty. .........................................................................................................................       365
Figure 23.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Change Incentive Pay - Parachute
             Jumping Duty. ..........................................................................................................              367
Figure 23.4. Format to Correct Incentive Pay - Parachute Jumping Duty. ...................................                                         369
Figure 23.5. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Stress Duty. ........                                                 370
Table 23.1. Waiver of JUMPS Requirement – Incentive Pay – Parachute Jumping Duty. .........                                                        373
Table 23.2. Jumping Duty – Incentive Pay – Supporting Documents. ........................................                                          374
Table 23.3. Incentive Pay – Demolition Duty – Supporting Documents. ...................................                                            376
Table 23.4. Incentive Pay – Stress Duty – Supporting Documents. ............................................                                       378
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                          15


Chapter 24— ALLOWANCES - GENERAL                                                                                                                   380
       24.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   380
       24.2.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     380

Chapter 25— BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR SUBSISTENCE (BAS)                                                                                                  381
       25.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   381
       25.2.       Policy on BAS ...........................................................................................................       381
       25.3.       Review of BAS. .........................................................................................................        382
       25.4.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              383
       25.5.       FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................     383
       25.6.       BAS Affecting Events Requiring Base-Level Input: .................................................                              384
       25.7.       BAS Affecting Events Not Requiring Base-Level Input.............................................                                385
       25.8.       Collection of Meal Charges (FID DN): .....................................................................                      385
       25.9.       Missed Meals Refunds (FID PI): ...............................................................................                  386
       25.10.      Family Subsistence Supplemental Allowance (FSSA): .............................................                                 387
Figure 25.1. AF IMT 220, 19920701, Request Authorization and Pay Order BAS - Separate
             Rations. .....................................................................................................................        389
Figure 25.2. DD Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence Certification ..............................                                            390
Figure 25.3. Formats to Report, Correct or Cancel Prorated Supplemental BAS. ........................                                              391
Figure 25.4. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, Change, Correct or Cancel BAS. ............................                                           394
Figure 25.5. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, Correct or Cancel Meal Collections. .......................                                           398
Figure 25.6. Formats to Report, Correct or Cancel Missed Meal Refunds. ..................................                                          402

Chapter 26— BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING (BAH)                                                                                                      405
       26.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   405
       26.2.       Entitlement Overview. ...............................................................................................           405
       26.3.       Responsibility Overview. ...........................................................................................            407
       26.4.       Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              409
       26.5.       Substantiating Document Preparation and Certification Responsibilities. ................                                        409
       26.6.       Dependency Statements and Supporting Documents. ...............................................                                 411
       26.7.       Relationship or Dependency Determinations. ...........................................................                          415
       26.8.       Secondary Dependent BAH Dependency Re-determinations. ..................................                                        416
       26.9.       Re-certification. .........................................................................................................     418
16                                                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      26.10.       Verification of Family-Type Government Quarters Assignments. ...........................                                  418
      26.11.       Verification of Single-Type Government Quarters Assignments. .............................                                419
      26.12.       Dependency Discrepancy Reconciliation. .................................................................                  419
      26.13.       Assignment/Termination of TLF. ..............................................................................             421
      26.14.       BAH Entitlement. ......................................................................................................   421
      26.15.       BAH Entitlement-New Accessions. ..........................................................................                421
      26.16.       BAH Entitlement-Dependent Child in Custody of Someone Other Than Member
                   (Entitlement Started before 5 Dec 1991). ..................................................................               421
      26.17.       BAH Entitlement-Member in a Non-pay Status. .......................................................                       421
      26.18. BAH Entitlement-BAH Rate Protection. ...................................................................                        423
      26.19.       BAH Entitlement-Dependents Remain Overseas (DRO)/Housing Waivers. ............                                            424
      26.20.       BAH Entitlement-Early Return of Dependents (ERD). .............................................                           424
      26.21.       BAH Entitlement-Designated Location Moves (DLM). ...........................................                              424
      26.22.       BAH Entitlement-Member in TDY or PCS Status. ...................................................                          424
      26.23.       BAH Entitlement-New Claims Prior to Separation. ..................................................                        425
      26.24.       BAH Entitlement-Terminal Leave. ............................................................................              425
      26.25.       BAH Entitlement-Death of Member. .........................................................................                425
      26.26.       BAH Entitlement-Inadequate Quarters. .....................................................................                425
      26.27.       BAH Entitlement-Members of Reserve Components. ..............................................                             425
      26.28.       FSH-O and FSH-B. ....................................................................................................     426
      26.29.       Advance Payment of BAH. .......................................................................................           427
      26.30. BAH Transaction Format Identifiers and Action Indicators. ....................................                                  429
      26.31. BAH Management Notices and Leave and Earnings Statement (LES) Remarks. ......                                                   429
      26.32.       BAH Closest Dependent Codes. ................................................................................             430
      26.33.       Additional FSO Requirements. ..................................................................................           431
Figure 26.1. AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic
             Allowance for Quarters (BAQ) or Dependency Redetermination. ..........................                                          432
Figure 26.2. DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation
             Allowance. ................................................................................................................     433
Figure 26.3. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order. ...........................................................................                    434
Figure 26.4. AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment of an Advance
             Housing Allowance. .................................................................................................            435
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                         17


Figure 26.5. DFAS-DE Form 1856, Statement of Understanding Basic Allowance for
             Quarters – Dependents. ............................................................................................                  436
Figure 26.6. DFAS-DE Form 1863, Dependency Determinations Control Log. ..........................                                                 438
Figure 26.7. Schedule of Annual BAH Secondary Dependent Re-Determinations. .....................                                                  439
Figure 26.8. PCN: UH099C0471, Officer/Enlisted Dependency Discrepancies. ........................                                                 440
Figure 26.9. UH099C081, Mil-Mil BAQ Same ADSN-Central Site Match. ...............................                                                 441
Figure 26.10. AF Form 2429, Dependency Discrepancy Report. ...................................................                                    442
Figure 26.11. Format to Start BAH. ................................................................................................               443
Figure 26.12. Format to Stop BAH. ................................................................................................                445
Figure 26.13. Format to Report BAH. ............................................................................................                  446
Figure 26.14. Format to Change BAH. ...........................................................................................                   448
Figure 26.15. Format to Correct BAH. ...........................................................................................                  450
Figure 26.16. Format to Cancel BAH. ............................................................................................                  452
Figure 26.17. Formats to Start BAH-DIFF and Stop BAH-DIFF. ..................................................                                     453
Figure 26.18. Formats to Report and Change BAH-DIFF. .............................................................                                457
Figure 26.19. Format to correct BAH-DIFF. ..................................................................................                      458
Figure 26.20. Format to Cancel BAH-DIFF. ..................................................................................                       460
Figure 26.21. Formats to Start and Stop FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA). ........................................                                       461
Figure 26.22. Formats to Report and Change FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA). ................................                                            463
Figure 26.23. Format to Correct FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA). ....................................................                                   465
Figure 26.24. Format to Cancel FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA). .....................................................                                   467
Figure 26.25. Formats to Start or Stop BAH-I (formerly VHA). ....................................................                                 468
Figure 26.26. Format to Report BAH-I (formerly VHA). ..............................................................                               470
Figure 26.27. Format to Change BAH-I (formerly VHA). .............................................................                                472
Figure 26.28. Format to Correct BAH-I (formerly VHA). .............................................................                               473
Figure 26.29. Format to Cancel BAH-I (formerly VHA). ..............................................................                               475

Chapter 27— FAMILY SEPARATION ALLOWANCE (FSA)                                                                                                     476
      27.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   476
      27.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              476
      27.3.       Transportation of Dependents. ...................................................................................               477
18                                                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      27.4.        Elections and Reelections. .........................................................................................                477
      27.5.        FSA-R: .......................................................................................................................      478
      27.6.        FSA-T. .......................................................................................................................      478
      27.7.        FSO Action. ...............................................................................................................         479
      27.8.        FSA-I .........................................................................................................................     480
Figure 27.1. DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation
             Allowance. ................................................................................................................               481
Figure 27.2. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order. ...........................................................................                              482
Figure 27.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct FSA. ............................................                                         483

Chapter 28— COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA)                                                                                                            486

Section 28A—Overseas Cost of Living Allowance (COLA).                                                                                                  486
      28.1.        Description. ................................................................................................................       486
      28.2.        Substantiating Document. ..........................................................................................                 486
      28.3.        FSO Action: ...............................................................................................................         486
      28.4.        BAQ Compatibility Edits. ..........................................................................................                 487
      28.5.        Verification. ...............................................................................................................       487

Section 28B—CONUS Cost of Living Allowance (COLA).                                                                                                     487
      28.6.        Description. ................................................................................................................       487
      28.7.        Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................                  488
      28.8.        Eligible Members. ......................................................................................................            488
      28.9.        Definitions. ................................................................................................................       488
      28.10.       Member Married to Member. ....................................................................................                      488
      28.11.       Status. .........................................................................................................................   488
      28.12.       Dual Payment of Overseas COLA and CONUS COLA. ...........................................                                           489
      28.13.       Members Paying Child Support. ................................................................................                      489
      28.14.       New Accessions. ........................................................................................................            489
Figure 28.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (for Member Due COLA). ................................                                                   490
Figure 28.2. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, Change, Correct, or Cancel COLA. ........................                                                 491
Figure 28.3. Formats to Start, Stop, Report or Change Restricted Area COLA. ..........................                                                 494
Figure 28.4. Formats to Correct or Cancel Restricted Area COLA. .............................................                                          496
Figure 28.5. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct Prorated COLA. ............................................                                           497
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                         19


Figure 28.6. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, or Change CONUS COLA. ....................................                                           499
Figure 28.7. Formats to Correct or Cancel CONUS COLA. ........................................................                                    501

Chapter 29— TEMPORARY LODGING ALLOWANCE (TLA)                                                                                                     503
      29.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   503
      29.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              503
      29.3.       Temporary Lodging Allowance-Departure (TLA-D). ...............................................                                  504
      29.4.       TLA-Arrival. ..............................................................................................................     504
      29.5.       Additional Factors Affecting TLA. ...........................................................................                   504
      29.6.       Computation of TLA. ................................................................................................            506
      29.7.       FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................     508
Figure 29.1. SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal. ...........                                                  510
Figure 29.2. AF Form 1357, Request for Temporary Lodging Allowance. .................................                                             511
Figure 29.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collections of TLA Overpayments. ................                                                 512
Figure 29.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO - Authorized Payment for Temporary
             Lodging Allowance. ..................................................................................................                514

Chapter 30— OVERSEAS HOUSING ALLOWANCE (OHA)                                                                                                      516
      30.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   516
      30.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              516
      30.3.       Definitions: ................................................................................................................   516
      30.4.       Computation of OHA: ...............................................................................................             517
      30.5.       Advance Payment of OHA, BAQ, and Security Deposit: .........................................                                    518
      30.6.       Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................       522
      30.7.       Format IDs for Paying Overseas Housing Allowances: ............................................                                 522
      30.8.       Interface with BAQ: ...................................................................................................         522
      30.9.       Move-In Housing Allowance (MIHA): .....................................................................                         528
      30.10.      Interim Housing Allowance (IHA). ...........................................................................                    529
      30.11.      FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................     529
      30.12.      Re-certification. .........................................................................................................     529
Figure 30.1. DD Form 2367, Individual Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) Report..................                                                   530
Figure 30.2. AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment of an Advance
             Housing Allowance. .................................................................................................                 531
20                                                                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.3. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct MIHA Entitlement. .......................................                                                  532
Figure 30.4. Formats to Start, Stop, Report or Change Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA. ......                                                              534
Figure 30.5. Format to Correct or Cancel Overseas Housing Allowance – OHA. .......................                                                          542
Figure 30.6. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Interim Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA. ......                                                              545
Figure 30.7. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Interim Overseas Housing Allowance -
             OHA. ........................................................................................................................                  550
Figure 30.8. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Dual Overseas Housing Allowance
             (Unaccompanied With Dependents) - OHA. ............................................................                                            555
Figure 30.9. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Dual Overseas Housing Allowance
             (Unaccompanied with Dependents) - OHA. ............................................................                                            560
Figure 30.10. Formats to Start, Stop, Report or Change Overseas Housing - OHA. ......................                                                       565
Figure 30.11. Format to Correct or Cancel Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA. ........................                                                        573
Figure 30.12. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Interim Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA.........                                                            576
Figure 30.13. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Interim Overseas Housing Allowance -
              OHA. .......................................................................................................................                  581
Figure 30.14. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Dual Overseas Housing Allowance
              (Unaccompanied with Dependents) - OHA. ............................................................                                           586
Figure 30.15. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Dual Overseas Housing Allowance
              (Unaccompanied with Dependents) - OHA. ............................................................                                           591
Figure 30.16. Format to Report, Cancel or Correct Advance Pay. .................................................                                            596
Table 30.1. Advance Payment of Housing Allowance and Recoupment Procedures. ................                                                                598

Chapter 31— RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE                                                                                                                         600
       31.1.          ...................................................................................................................................   600

Chapter 32— ENTITLEMENT RE-CERTIFICATION                                                                                                                    601
       32.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................            601
       32.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                       601
       32.3.       Re-certification at PCS Arrival. .................................................................................                       601
       32.4.       Re-certification Prior to Separation or Retirement: ...................................................                                  601
       32.5.       Four Year Requirement: ............................................................................................                      601
       32.6.       FSO Action when Re-certification is Late or not Accomplished: .............................                                              601
       32.7.       Retention: ...................................................................................................................           602
       32.8.       Redeterminations. ......................................................................................................                 602
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                             21


Figure 32.1. AF Form 987, Recertification Statement for Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ),
             Variable Housing Allowance (VHA), Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA), Cost
             of Living Allowance (COLA), and Family Separation Allowance (FSA). ..............                                                        603

Chapter 33— CLOTHING ALLOWANCES                                                                                                                       605

Section 33A—Enlisted.                                                                                                                                 605
      33.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................       605
      33.2.       Types of Clothing Monetary Allowances Authorized Enlisted Members Include:.....                                                     605
      33.3.       Initial Clothing Monetary Allowance (CMAI) for Prior Service Enlisted
                  Members Paid Through DJMS: .................................................................................                        605
      33.4.       Initial Clothing Monetary Allowances – ...................................................................                          606
      33.5.       Maternity Clothing. ....................................................................................................            607
      33.6.       Enlisted Members' Civilian Clothing Allowance: .....................................................                                608
      33.7.       Health and Appearance Sales: ...................................................................................                    610
      33.8.       Miscellaneous Clothing Allowances Not Paid Through DJMS: ...............................                                            611

Section 33B—Officers.                                                                                                                                 611
      33.9.       Types. .........................................................................................................................    611
      33.10.      Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                  611
      33.11.      FSO Procedures. ........................................................................................................            611
      33.12.      Input. ..........................................................................................................................   611
Figure 33.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (SP Special Clothing). .......................................                                           612
Figure 33.2. AF Form 1969, Officer Uniform Allowance Certification (To Report UEA --
             Initial and Additional). .............................................................................................                   613
Figure 33.3. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct UEA Initial. ...................................................                                     614
Figure 33.4. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct UEA Additional. ...........................................                                          616
Figure 33.5. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct Extra Clothing Allowance. ............................                                               617
Figure 33.6. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct Civilian Monetary Clothing Allowance. .........                                                      618
Figure 33.7. Format to Stop Civilian Monetary Clothing Allowance Future. ..............................                                               620
Figure 33.8. Format to Report/Cancel CMAI and/or CMA Allowances. .....................................                                                621
Figure 33.9. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Initial Clothing Monetary Allowances –
             Basic Military Trainees (BMTS) and Officer Training School (OTS) Students. .....                                                         623

Chapter 34— PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCE                                                                                                                  625
      34.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................       625
22                                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       34.2.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     625
Figure 34.1. Format to Start/Stop/Change/Correct/Cancel Special Compensation Positions..........                                                   626

Chapter 35— PCS ADVANCE PAYMENTS                                                                                                                   627
       35.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   627
       35.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              627
       35.3.       Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................     627
       35.4.       FSO Action: ...............................................................................................................     628
       35.5.       Special Provisions. .....................................................................................................       628
Figure 35.1. AF Form 265, AFO Payment Authorization. ...........................................................                                   629
Figure 35.2. DD Form 2560, Advance Pay Certification/Authorization. .....................................                                          630
Figure 35.3. Daily EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form. ...................................................                                     631
Figure 35.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO - Authorized Payments for Advance
             Payments. ..................................................................................................................          632
Table 35.1. AF Form 265 Preparation. ........................................................................................                      634
Table 35.2. EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form Preparation. .........................................                                          636

Chapter 36— PARTIAL AND CASUAL PAYMENTS                                                                                                            638
       36.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   638
       36.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              638
       36.3.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     638
       36.4.       Special Provisions - Casual Payments: ......................................................................                    638
       36.5.       Partial Payments. .......................................................................................................       639
Figure 36.1. DD Form 115, Military Payroll Money List (to Report a Partial Payment). ............                                                  640
Figure 36.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO Authorized Payments for Casual
             Payments. ..................................................................................................................          641
Figure 36.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Partial Pay. ..........................                                             643

Chapter 37— ONE-TIME PAYMENTS                                                                                                                      645
       37.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   645
       37.2.       Timing of Payments. ..................................................................................................          645
       37.3.       Procedures. .................................................................................................................   645
       37.4.       Reject Corrections: ....................................................................................................        645
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                         23


Chapter 38— DIRECT DEPOSIT OF PAY                                                                                                                 647
      38.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................    647
      38.2.      Enrollment. ................................................................................................................     647
      38.3.      Pay Option. ................................................................................................................     647
      38.4.      Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................               647
      38.5.      Waivers to Participation in Direct Deposit. ...............................................................                      649
      38.6.      Changes Requested by the Financial Institution: .......................................................                          649
      38.7.      Reimbursement for Bank Overdraft or Failure to Maintain Minimum Balance
                 Charges. .....................................................................................................................   650
      38.8.      Direct Deposit and Allotments to Same Account. .....................................................                             650
      38.9.      Direct Deposit of Payments Other than Normal Payroll. ..........................................                                 650
Figure 38.1. SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form. ...............................................................                               653
Figure 38.2. AF Form 1745, Address Change Form. ....................................................................                              654
Figure 38.3. FMS 2231, FASTSTART Direct/Deposit Form. ......................................................                                      655
Figure 38.4. Formats to Start/Stop/Change Payments to a Financial Organization. .....................                                             656
Figure 38.5. Format to Waiver Payments to Financial Organizations. .........................................                                      658

Chapter 39— ACCESSIONS                                                                                                                            659
      39.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................    659
      39.2.      FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................      659
      39.3.      Accession Input. .........................................................................................................       660
      39.4.      Effect on MMPA. ......................................................................................................           661
      39.5.      MMPA Entries That Identify the Accession Process. ...............................................                                662
      39.6.      DFAS-DE Actions Related to Accession Processing: ...............................................                                 662
Figure 39.1. MK MMPA Format-Basic Trainee. ..........................................................................                             663
Figure 39.2. MK MMPA Format-Non-Basic Trainee. ..................................................................                                 664
Figure 39.3. Format for Initial BMT/OTS Accession. ..................................................................                             665
Figure 39.4. Format for BMT/OTS Accession. ............................................................................                           666
Figure 39.5. Format for Service Academy Accession. .................................................................                              669
Figure 39.6. Format for Enlisted Accession. .................................................................................                     673
Figure 39.7. Format for Officer Accession. ..................................................................................                     674
Figure 39.8. Format to Correct Member's SSN. ............................................................................                         676
24                                                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.9. Format to Change Member's Name. .........................................................................                            677
Figure 39.10. Format to Correct Member's Sex Code. ....................................................................                           678
Figure 39.11. Format to Start/Correct Resident Country of Resident Non-CONUS State. ............                                                  679
Figure 39.12. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Last Active Duty Officer Status. ................                                            680
Figure 39.13. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Previous Enlistment. ..................................                                      681
Figure 39.14. Format to Change/Correct Dual Status. ....................................................................                          682
Figure 39.15. Format to Change or Correct Airman Pay Date, EAD Date and TAFMSD. ............                                                      683
Figure 39.16. Format to Correct Prior Service Benefit Waiver. .....................................................                               684
Figure 39.17. Format to Correct Service Component. ....................................................................                           685
Figure 39.18. Format to Change/Cancel Airman's DOS, DOS Extension Reason, Extension
              Number or ETS. ........................................................................................................             686
Figure 39.19. Format to Change or Correct Officer Service Dates. ................................................                                 687

Chapter 40— BASIC TRAINEES AND PIPELINE STUDENTS                                                                                                  689
      40.1.       Basic Military Trainees (BMT). ................................................................................                 689
      40.2.       Pipeline Students. .......................................................................................................      689
Figure 40.1. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Basic Trainee Pay. .....................                                              690

Chapter 41— PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION (PCS)                                                                                                     692
      41.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   692
      41.2.       Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              692
      41.3.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................     693
      41.4.       FSO Actions Upon PCS Arrival. ...............................................................................                   693
      41.5.       Effect of PCS Arrival on MMPA. .............................................................................                    694
      41.6.       FSO Actions Upon PCS Departure: ...........................................................................                     699
      41.7.       Effect of PCS Departure on MMPA: .........................................................................                      701
      41.8.       Effect of Other Status on PCS: ..................................................................................               704
      41.9.       PCS Processing. .........................................................................................................       705
      41.10.      Special Provisions. .....................................................................................................       705
      41.11.      Geographically Separated Units (GSU). ....................................................................                      706
Figure 41.1. Movement Reason Codes. ........................................................................................                      707
Figure 41.2. DD Form 2572, Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Package Transfer Actions. ......                                                     709
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                           25


Figure 41.3. Format to Correct Duty Country or Non-CONUS State. ..........................................                                          710
Figure 41.4. Format to Change Location/Command Identity. ......................................................                                     711
Figure 41.5. Format to Report/Correct PCS Arrival. ....................................................................                             712
Figure 41.6. Format to Report/Change/Correct/Cancel PCS Departure. ......................................                                           715

Chapter 42— TEMPORARY DUTY (TDY)                                                                                                                    716
      42.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................       716
      42.2.     Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................                  716
      42.3.     Effect on MMPA: ......................................................................................................              716
      42.4.     FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................         717
Figure 42.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (to Start TDY ADSN). ......................................                                            719
Figure 42.2. Format to Start/Stop/Change TDY ADSN. ..............................................................                                   720

Chapter 43— ON STATION                                                                                                                              721
      43.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................       721
      43.2.     Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................                  721
      43.3.     Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................         721
      43.4.     FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................         721
      43.5.     Effect on MMPA. ......................................................................................................              722
      43.6.     DFAS-DE Actions. ....................................................................................................               722
      43.7.     Input. ..........................................................................................................................   722
Figure 43.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change. ........................................................................                             723
Figure 43.2. Format to Change/Cancel On-Station Status. ...........................................................                                 724
Table 43.1. Action Indicators – Use and Effect – On-Station Status. .........................................                                       725
Table 43.2. Effect of Input Transaction on MMPA – On-Station Status. ...................................                                            726

Chapter 44— LEAVE                                                                                                                                   728
      44.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................       728
      44.2.     Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                  728
      44.3.     Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................         728
      44.4.     FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................         729
      44.5.     Effect of Leave on MMPA: .......................................................................................                    730
      44.6.     Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................           732
26                                                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      44.7.       Leave Accrual, etc., for Members Assigned to Hostile Fire Areas: ..........................                                         736
      44.8.       Input: ..........................................................................................................................   736
      44.9.       LeaveWeb. .................................................................................................................         738
Figure 44.1. AF Form 1486, Unit Leave Control Log. .................................................................                                  742
Figure 44.2. AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization. ...........................................................                                    743
Figure 44.3. LeaveWeb (LW) Unit Leave and Input Source Inspection Checklist. .....................                                                    744
Figure 44.4. General Summary of Leave Balance Entry. .............................................................                                    749
Figure 44.5. General Summary of Hostile Fire Pay, CZ Leave Balance Processing. ...................                                                    751
Figure 44.6. Format to Start, Stop, or Report Hostile Fire/Combat Zone Leave Balance. ...........                                                     754
Figure 44.7. Format to Correct or Cancel Hostile Fire/Combat Zone Leave Balance. .................                                                    756
Figure 44.8. Format to Start Leave. ..............................................................................................                    758
Figure 44.9. Format to Stop/Report/Correct Leave. ......................................................................                              759
Figure 44.10. Format to Cancel Leave. ...........................................................................................                     762
Figure 44.11. AF 2519, All Purpose Checklist. ..............................................................................                          763
Figure 44.12. Leave Approving Official Instructions. ....................................................................                             765
Figure 44.13. Daily Unit LW Administrator Instructions. ..............................................................                                766
Figure 44.14. Other Unit LW Administrator Instructions. ..............................................................                                767
Figure 44.15. Leave Status Information. .........................................................................................                     768
Figure 44.16. LW Troubleshooting Instructions. ............................................................................                           769
Figure 44.17. Uploading DROTS into LW Instructions. ................................................................                                  770
Figure 44.18. Adding Members to LW Instructions: ......................................................................                               771
Figure 44.19. Building a Unit in LW Instructions. .........................................................................                           772
Figure 44.20. Building a Unit Admin in LW Instructions. .............................................................                                 773
Figure 44.21. Building Unit Emails Instructions. ...........................................................................                          774
Figure 44.22. Changing Member’s DOS in LW Instructions. ........................................................                                      775
Figure 44.23. Changing a Member’s Email Address in LW Instructions. ......................................                                            775
Figure 44.24. Changing LW Password Instructions. ......................................................................                               776
Figure 44.25. Review of AF Form 1486. Memorandum For: Unit Leave Monitor. .....................                                                       777
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                               27


Chapter 45— RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE                                                                                                                     778
     45.1.        ...................................................................................................................................   778

Chapter 46— ABSENT WITHOUT LEAVE (AWOL)                                                                                                                 779
     46.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................           779
     46.2.      Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................                      779
     46.3.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................             779
     46.4.      FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................             779
     46.5.      Effect on MMPA: ......................................................................................................                  779
     46.6.      Special Provisions. .....................................................................................................               780
     46.7.      Input: ..........................................................................................................................       780
Figure 46.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change (to Change Member's Status to AWOL). ..........                                                           782
Figure 46.2. Format to Report/Change/Cancel AWOL Status. .....................................................                                          783
Table 46.1. Action Indicators – Use and Effect – AWOL Status. ...............................................                                           784

Chapter 47— DESERTION                                                                                                                                   785
     47.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................           785
     47.2.      Substantiating Document. ..........................................................................................                     785
     47.3.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................             785
     47.4.      FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................             785
     47.5.      Effect of Desertion Status on MMPA: .......................................................................                             785
     47.6.      Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................               786
Figure 47.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change (to Change Member's Status to Desertion). ......                                                          787
Figure 47.2. Format to Change/Cancel Desertion Status. .............................................................                                    788
Table 47.1. Desertion Status – Action Indicators – Use and Effect. ...........................................                                          789

Chapter 48— CONFINEMENT                                                                                                                                 790
     48.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................           790
     48.2.      Substantiating Document. ..........................................................................................                     790
     48.3.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................             790
     48.4.      FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................             790
     48.5.      Effect of Confinement Status on MMPA. .................................................................                                 790
     48.6.      Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................               790
     48.7.      Input: ..........................................................................................................................       791
28                                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 48.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change (to Change Member's Status to
             Confinement). ...........................................................................................................             792
Figure 48.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Payments for Comfort
             Items. ........................................................................................................................       793
Figure 48.3. Format to Report/Change/Cancel Confinement Status. ............................................                                       795
Table 48.1. Confinement – Civil Data Required on Substantiating Document. ..........................                                               796
Table 48.2. Confinement – Military Data Required on Substantiating Document. .....................                                                 797
Table 48.3. Confinement Status – Action Indicators – Use and Effect. ......................................                                        798
Table 48.4. Effect of Input Transaction on MMPA – Confinement Type. ..................................                                             799

Chapter 49— HOSPITALIZATION                                                                                                                        801
       49.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   801
       49.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              801
       49.3.       Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................     801
       49.4.       Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................       805
       49.5.       Transaction Formats. .................................................................................................          805
Figure 49.1. Consent for Deduction From Pay. ............................................................................                          806
Figure 49.2. BAS Determination When Hospitalized. ..................................................................                               807
Figure 49.3. Follow-up Letter to FSO. ..........................................................................................                   808
Figure 49.4. Notification of Hospitalization in Civilian Medical Facility, VA Facility, or
             USTF.I. .....................................................................................................................         809
Table 49.1. Required Pay Adjustments When Enlisted Member is Hospitalized. ......................                                                  810
Table 49.2. Required Pay Adjustments When Officer is Hospitalized. .......................................                                         811
Table 49.3. Air Force Members and Dependents Hospitalized in Air Force Treatment
            Facility (MTF). .........................................................................................................              812

Chapter 50— MENTALLY INCOMPETENT                                                                                                                   814
       50.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   814
       50.2.       Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              814
       50.3.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     814
       50.4.       FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................     814
       50.5.       Effect on MMPA: ......................................................................................................          815
       50.6.       Special Provisions. .....................................................................................................       816
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                         29


      50.7.       DFAS-DE Actions. ....................................................................................................           816
Figure 50.1. Format to Change Status to Mentally Incompetent. .................................................                                   817

Chapter 51— MISSING STATUS                                                                                                                        818
      51.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   818
      51.2.       Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              818
      51.3.       FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................     818
      51.4.       Effect on MMPA. ......................................................................................................          818
      51.5.       Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................       819
      51.6.       DFAS-DE Actions: ....................................................................................................           819

Chapter 52— FINAL SEPARATION                                                                                                                      821
      52.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   821
      52.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................              821
      52.3.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     821
      52.4.       FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................     821
      52.5.       Special Provisions. .....................................................................................................       822
      52.6.       Payment Processing. ..................................................................................................          822
      52.7.       Separation Indebtedness Report. ................................................................................                823
      52.8.       Separation Processing Procedures for Overseas Members. .......................................                                  823
      52.9.       What-If Separation Processing. .................................................................................                824
      52.10.      Computation of Separation Pay. ................................................................................                 825
      52.11.      Separation Pay Adjustment Code. .............................................................................                   826
      52.12.      MPF Procedures. ........................................................................................................        827
      52.13.      DFAS-DE Procedures. ...............................................................................................             827
      52.14.      Servicing FSO Procedures: ........................................................................................              828
Figure 52.1. FSO Separation Actions. ...........................................................................................                  831
Figure 52.2. FSO Actions - Normal and Short Notice Separations. .............................................                                     833
Figure 52.3. Separation Suspension Reason Codes. .....................................................................                            836
Figure 52.4. Format to Report/Change or Cancel Final Separation. .............................................                                    837
Figure 52.5. Change Separated Member’s Address. .....................................................................                             840
Figure 52.6. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Separation Pay. ..........................                                            842
Figure 52.7. Format to Release PQ Authorization. .......................................................................                          844
30                                                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 52.8. Format to Change/Cancel Suspended Status. ...........................................................                                   845
Figure 52.9. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Last Active Duty Officer Status. ................                                                846

Chapter 53— REENLISTMENTS                                                                                                                            847
      53.1.        Description. ................................................................................................................     847
      53.2.        Management Notices and Memo Entries: ..................................................................                           847
      53.3.        Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................       848
      53.4.        Output Products from DFAS-DE. ..............................................................................                      848
      53.5.        Computation and Payment of One-Time Payments. .................................................                                   848
      53.6.        Establishment of New Pay Account - Reenlistment or Extension of Enlistment: .....                                                 849
      53.7.        Establishment of New Pay Account - Separation with Change of Status: ................                                             850
      53.8.        Claims. .......................................................................................................................   850
Figure 53.1. Format to Report/Change or Cancel Separation with Immediate Reentry on
             Active Duty. .............................................................................................................              852
Figure 53.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of One-Time Pay Authorization
             for VRB, SEB or SRB. .............................................................................................                      856
Figure 53.3. Format to Release PL Authorization. .......................................................................                             858
Figure 53.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Reenlistment Bonus. ..................                                                   859
Figure 53.5. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Last Active Duty Officer Status. ................                                                861
Figure 53.6. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Previous Enlistment. ..................................                                          862

Chapter 54— CASUALTIES                                                                                                                               863
      54.1.        Description. ................................................................................................................     863
      54.2.        Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                863
      54.3.        Death Gratuity. ...........................................................................................................       864
      54.4.        Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................       865
      54.5.        FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................       865
      54.6.        Allowance for Quarters to Surviving Dependents: ....................................................                              867
      54.7.        DFAS-DE Actions: ....................................................................................................             868
Figure 54.1. DD Form 397, Claim Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment. .......                                                        869
Figure 54.2. Casualty Information Checklist. ...............................................................................                         870
Figure 54.3. Format to Report/Change or Cancel Final Separation. .............................................                                       871
Figure 54.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Arrears of Pay. ...........................                                              875
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                          31


Figure 54.5. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Payment for Death
             Gratuity. ....................................................................................................................        877

Chapter 55— DEDUCTIONS AND COLLECTIONS - GENERAL                                                                                                   879
       55.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   879
       55.2.       Definitions: ................................................................................................................   879

Chapter 56— TAXABLE WAGES AND WITHHOLDINGS                                                                                                         880

Section 56A—Federal Taxable Wages and Withholdings.                                                                                                880
       56.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   880
       56.2.       Federal Taxable Wages. .............................................................................................            880
       56.3.       TD Form W-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. .............................                                        880
       56.4.       Responsibility for TD Form W-4 Information. .........................................................                           881
       56.5.       Federal Income Tax Withholding (FITW). ................................................................                         882
       56.6.       Adjustments and Refunds. .........................................................................................              883
       56.7.       TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement. .................................................................                          884
       56.8.       Social Security Numbers (SSN). ...............................................................................                  884
       56.9.       Social Security and Medicare Taxable Wages and Withholdings. ............................                                       885

Section 56B—Earned Income Credit.                                                                                                                  885
       56.10.      Entitlement Criteria. ...................................................................................................       885
       56.11.      Advance Payment of Earned Income Credit (APEIC). .............................................                                  886
       56.12.      Eligibility for APEIC. ................................................................................................         886
       56.13.      Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              886
       56.14.      FSO Responsibilities. .................................................................................................         886

Section 56C—State Taxable Wages and Withholdings.                                                                                                  886
       56.15.      State Taxable Wages. .................................................................................................          887
       56.16.      State Income Tax Withholding (SITW). ....................................................................                       887
       56.17.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     887
       56.18.      Special Provisions. .....................................................................................................       887
       56.19.      Unique State and Territory Residency Requirements. ...............................................                              890

Section 56D—Combat Zone Tax Exclusion.                                                                                                             892
       56.20.      Definitions. ................................................................................................................   892
       56.21.      Combat Zone Tax Exclusion (CZTE). .......................................................................                       893
32                                                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      56.22.     Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              893
      56.23.     CZTE Withholding Election. .....................................................................................                894
      56.24.     CZTE While Hospitalized. ........................................................................................               894
      56.25.     Leave Earned in a CZ or QHDA. ..............................................................................                    894
      56.26.     LES Remarks for CZTE. ...........................................................................................               895
      56.27.     FSO Responsibility. ...................................................................................................         895
Figure 56.1. TD Form W-4, Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate. ............................                                             898
Figure 56.2. TD Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate. .....................                                                900
Figure 56.3. DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate. .............................................                                   902
Figure 56.4. DD Form 2058-1, State Income Tax Exemption Test Certificate. ...........................                                            903
Figure 56.5. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (Combat Tax Exclusion). ..................................                                          904
Figure 56.6. Earned Income Credit (EIC) Worksheet. ..................................................................                            905
Figure 56.7. OHIO EXEMPTION STATEMENT. .......................................................................                                   906
Figure 56.8. OFFICER CZTE CERTIFICATION STATEMENT. ..............................................                                                908
Figure 56.9. CZTE Withholding Election Codes. .........................................................................                          909
Figure 56.10. Format to Change Tax Withholding Amount. ..........................................................                                910
Figure 56.11. Format to Start/Stop Advance Payment of Earned Income Credit. ..........................                                           911
Figure 56.12. Format to Change Tax Withholding Code. ...............................................................                             912
Figure 56.13. Format to Change Number of Tax Withholding Allowances. ..................................                                          913
Figure 56.14. Format to Change Federal Income Tax Withholding (FITW) Information. .............                                                  914
Figure 56.15. Format to Change State Income Tax Withholding (SITW) Information. .................                                                915
Figure 56.16. Formats to Start/Stop Combat Zone Tax Exclusion When Hostile Fire/Imminent
              Danger Pay is Not Authorized. .................................................................................                    916
Figure 56.17. Formats to Report/Correct Combat Zone Tax Exclusion When Hostile
              Fire/Imminent Danger Pay is Not Authorized. .........................................................                              918
Figure 56.18. Format to Cancel Combat Zone Tax Exclusion When Hostile Fire/Imminent
              Danger Pay is Not Authorized. .................................................................................                    920
Figure 56.19. Format to Start/Stop/Change Exemption From Tax Withholding. ...........................                                            921
Figure 56.20. Format to Change Taxing Authority - City/State. ....................................................                               922

Chapter 57— ALLOTMENTS OF PAY                                                                                                                    923
      57.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................   923
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                            33


       57.2.       Active Duty Allotments: ............................................................................................              923
       57.3.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................       925
       57.4.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                925
       57.5.       Allotment Flash Codes. ..............................................................................................             926
       57.6.       Undeliverable Allotments. .........................................................................................               926
       57.7.       Payment to Allottees. .................................................................................................           927
       57.8.       Use of Company Codes. ............................................................................................                927
       57.9.       Discretionary Allotments: ..........................................................................................              927
       57.10.      Non-Discretionary Allotments: ..................................................................................                  928
       57.11.      Retired Pay Allotments. .............................................................................................             928
Figure 57.1. DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop or Change an Allotment. ...................                                                  930
Figure 57.2. SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form. ...............................................................                                  931
Figure 57.3. TD Form 2159, Payroll Deduction Agreement. .......................................................                                      932
Figure 57.4. Format to Change Allotment Check Mailing Address. ............................................                                          933
Figure 57.5. Format to Start Class C or T Allotments or to Change Class T Allotments. ............                                                   935
Figure 57.6. Format to Start, Change, Increase or Decrease Class D or H Allotments to
             Individuals/Mortgages. .............................................................................................                    936
Figure 57.7. Format to Change Class D, H, I or S Allotments to Coded Companies. ..................                                                   939
Figure 57.8. Format to Stop Class C, D, F, H, I, L, S or T Allotments. ........................................                                      941
Figure 57.9. Format to Increase or Decrease Class D, H, I or S Allotments to Coded
             Companies. ...............................................................................................................              942
Figure 57.10. Format to Start Class F Allotment. ...........................................................................                         943
Figure 57.11. Format to Start Class D, H, I or S Allotments to Coded Companies. .......................                                              944
Figure 57.12. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO - Authorized Payments for Class X
              Allotments. ...............................................................................................................            946

Chapter 58— ALLOTMENTS FOR THE PURCHASE OF US SAVINGS BONDS                                                                                          948
       58.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................     948
       58.2.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................       948
       58.3.       Characteristics of Bond Allotments: ..........................................................................                    948
       58.4.       Bonds for Retiring Members. ....................................................................................                  950
       58.5.       User Instructions for SBD-2104, SB-2305, and SB-2378 with DJMS Input
                   Screens. ......................................................................................................................   950
34                                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 58.1. User Instructions for SBD-2104, SB-2305, and SB-2378 with DJMS Input
            Screens. .....................................................................................................................         951
Figure 58.1. Savings Bonds or United States Series I (Inflation-Indexed) Savings Bonds. .........                                                  956
Figure 58.2. SBD Form 2104, United States Series EE Savings Bonds. ......................................                                          957
Figure 58.3. Form SB-2305, United States Series I Savings Bonds. ............................................                                      958
Figure 58.4. CMS Case to Request PD Form 3062, Claim for Relief on Account of Loss,
             Theft or Destruction of United States Savings Bonds After Valid Issue but Prior
             to Receipt by Owner, Co-owner or Beneficiary. ......................................................                                  959
Figure 58.5. Format to Change Bond Mailing Address. ...............................................................                                960
Figure 58.6. Format to Start or Change a Bond Allotment. ..........................................................                                962
Figure 58.7. Format to Stop a Bond Allotment. ............................................................................                         967

Chapter 59— ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME (AFRH) DEDUCTION                                                                                          968
       59.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   968
       59.2.       Deduction: ..................................................................................................................   968

Chapter 60— COMPANY CODES AND OTHER TABLES                                                                                                         969
       60.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   969
       60.2.       On-line Table Access. ................................................................................................          969
       60.3.       Company Code Table - Table 50. ..............................................................................                   969
Figure 60.1. DJMS-AC Tables. .....................................................................................................                 971
Table 60.1. Company Guidelines for Company Codes. ..............................................................                                   975

Chapter 61— TRICARE - FAMILY MEMBER DENTAL PLAN (TRICARE - FMDP)                                                                                   976
       61.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   976
       61.2.       Source of Input: .........................................................................................................      976

Chapter 62— SAVINGS DEPOSIT PROGRAM (SDP)                                                                                                          977
       62.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   977
       62.2.       Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              977
       62.3.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     977
       62.4.       FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................     977
       62.5.       Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................       979
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                            35


Chapter 63— SERVICE MEMBER'S GROUP LIFE INSURANCE (SGLI)                                                                                             983
      63.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................      983
      63.2.       Traumatic Injury. .......................................................................................................          983
      63.3.       Source of Input: .........................................................................................................         983
      63.4.       Pay Status. ..................................................................................................................     984
      63.5.       Family SGLI. .............................................................................................................         984
Figure 63.1. Format to Change or Stop SGLI Premium. ..............................................................                                   986
Figure 63.2. Format to Cancel SGLI and FSGLI Premium. .........................................................                                      988
Figure 63.3. Family SGLI Rates. ..................................................................................................                   989
Figure 63.4. Premium for SGLI and T-SGLI. ...............................................................................                            989

Chapter 64— MONTGOMERY G I BILL (MGIB)                                                                                                               990
      64.1.       General. ......................................................................................................................    990
      64.2.       Montgomery G.I. Bill (MGIB). .................................................................................                     990
      64.3.       Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................        990
      64.4.       Alternate Enrollment Programs. ................................................................................                    990
      64.5.       Effect on Taxable Wages. ..........................................................................................                991
      64.6.       FSO Responsibility. ...................................................................................................            992
      64.7.       Central Site Responsibility. .......................................................................................               992
      64.8.       Veteran’s Educational Assistance Program (VEAP). ................................................                                  992
      64.9.       $600 Additional Contribution for MGIB. ..................................................................                          994
      64.10.      VEAP to MGIB Open Window for $2,700. ..............................................................                                995
Figure 64.1. DE01 Format to Start MGIB Deductions. ................................................................                                  997
Figure 64.2. DE04 Format to Change MGIB Deductions. ............................................................                                     998
Figure 64.3. DE06 Format to Cancel MGIB Deductions. .............................................................                                   1000

Chapter 65— COLLECTIONS                                                                                                                             1001
      65.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................     1001
      65.2.       Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                1001
      65.3.       Canceled and Undeliverable Checks (FORMAT-ID C1): .........................................                                       1001
      65.4.       Application to Member's Indebtedness (FORMAT-ID C2). .....................................                                        1001
      65.5.       Voucher Totals for Collections. .................................................................................                 1001
36                                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      65.6.        JUMPS Voucher Balancing/MAFR Reconciliation Report (PCN MP-19-173)
                   for Collections. ..........................................................................................................     1001
      65.7.        Collections Reported After Separation. .....................................................................                    1001
      65.8.        Substitute Checks. ......................................................................................................       1002
      65.9.        Collections for Jury Duty Fees Paid to Military Members. .......................................                                1002
      65.10.       Collection of Witness Fees. .......................................................................................             1002
      65.11.       Cash Collection of Court-Martial Fines. ....................................................................                    1002
      65.12.       Cash Collection of Advance Pay. ..............................................................................                  1003
      65.13.       Cash Collection for Overpayment of TLA. ...............................................................                         1003
Figure 65.1. SF 1098, Schedule of Canceled or Undelivered Checks. .........................................                                        1004
Figure 65.2. DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher. ...............................................................                                1005
Figure 65.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Canceled or Undeliverable Checks -
             Member's Pay. ..........................................................................................................              1006
Figure 65.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collections to Apply to Member's
             Indebtedness. ............................................................................................................            1008
Figure 65.5. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collections of TLA Overpayments. ................                                                  1010

Chapter 66— HELD PAY                                                                                                                               1012
      66.1.        Description. ................................................................................................................   1012
      66.2.        Held Pay-Member's Request: .....................................................................................                1012
      66.3.        Held Pay-Commander/FSO Request: ........................................................................                        1013
      66.4.        Held Pay-Garnishments: ............................................................................................             1013
      66.5.        Held Pay-Other. .........................................................................................................       1014
Figure 66.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (Start Held Pay). ................................................                                    1015
Figure 66.2. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order - Start Held Pay (Commander/FSO Request). .....                                                       1016
Figure 66.3. Format to Start/Stop/Change/Cancel/Release Pay Held - Member's Request. .........                                                     1017
Figure 66.4. Format to Start/Stop/Change/Cancel Pay Held - Commander's/FSO's Request. ........                                                     1018
Figure 66.5. Format to Report/Cancel Held Pay Payments. .........................................................                                  1019

Chapter 67— COURT-MARTIAL SENTENCES AND NON-JUDICIAL PUNISHMENT                                                                                    1021
      67.1.        Description. ................................................................................................................   1021
      67.2.        Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................              1022
      67.3.        Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................     1023
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                        37


      67.4.     FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................     1023
      67.5.     Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................       1023
      67.6.     DFAS-DE Actions. ....................................................................................................           1025
      67.7.     Source of Input: .........................................................................................................      1025
      67.8.     Input Format. .............................................................................................................     1026
Figure 67.1. Format to Start/Stop/Cancel Collection of Court-Martial Fine or Forfeiture. ..........                                             1027
Figure 67.2. Format to Release Pay Held During Court-Martial Action or Sentence. .................                                              1029
Figure 67.3. REPLACED with the following: ..............................................................................                        1030

Chapter 68— UNIFORMED SERVICES THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN                                                                                              1031
      68.1.     Description. ................................................................................................................   1031
      68.2.     References. .................................................................................................................   1031
      68.3.     Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) Overview. ........................................................................                    1031
      68.4.     Eligibility to Participate in the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP). .......................................                            1031
      68.5.     Open Seasons. Open Seasons were eliminated in July 2005. ......................................                                 1031
      68.6.     Member Transfers. .....................................................................................................         1032
      68.7.     Contributions. ............................................................................................................     1032
      68.8.     Investment Options. ...................................................................................................         1033
      68.9.     Interfund Transfers. ...................................................................................................        1033
      68.10.    Tax Information. ........................................................................................................       1033
      68.11.    The TSP Loan Process is Strictly Between the Member and the NFC. .....................                                          1034
      68.12.    Breakage. ...................................................................................................................   1034
      68.13.    Make-up Contributions. .............................................................................................            1034
      68.14.    Error Corrections. ......................................................................................................       1035
      68.15.    Claims Procedures. ....................................................................................................         1035
      68.16.    Owners of the Program. .............................................................................................            1036
      68.17.    Source and Method of Input. .....................................................................................               1036
      68.18.    FSO Responsibilities. .................................................................................................         1036
      68.19.    Processing Form TSP-U-1. ........................................................................................               1036
      68.20.    Separations/Retirement Procedures. ..........................................................................                   1037
      68.21.    Definitions. ................................................................................................................   1037
      68.22.    Catch Up Contributions for TSP Participants Age 50 and Older. ............................                                      1039
      68.23.    Address Changes. .......................................................................................................        1040
38                                                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.1. - Officer TSP with CZTE. .........................................................................................                     1041
Figure 68.2. - D101 - TSP Start. (Header). ...................................................................................                      1042
Figure 68.3. - D102 - TSP Stop (Header). ....................................................................................                       1047
Figure 68.4. - D104 - TSP Change (Header). .................................................................................                        1052
Figure 68.5. - D106 - Cancel TSP. ................................................................................................                  1057
Figure 68.6. - CC03/06 Format for Cash Collection of TSP. ........................................................                                  1058
Figure 68.7. - TSP-U-1 - Thrift Savings Plan Election Form. ......................................................                                  1059

Chapter 69— INDEBTEDNESS-GENERAL                                                                                                                    1061
      69.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................     1061
      69.2.       Validity of Debt. ........................................................................................................        1061
      69.3.       Notification of Indebtedness. .....................................................................................               1061
      69.4.       Repayment of Indebtedness. ......................................................................................                 1061
      69.5.       Repayment Based on Remission. ...............................................................................                     1061
      69.6.       General Collection Guidance: ....................................................................................                 1062
      69.7.       Two-Thirds Rule: .......................................................................................................          1063
      69.8.       Held Pay. ....................................................................................................................    1063
      69.9.       Accelerating Collection of Debts. ..............................................................................                  1064
      69.10.      Management Case File (MCF). .................................................................................                     1064
      69.11.      Management Notices: ................................................................................................              1064
      69.12.      Advance Input of Transactions: .................................................................................                  1065
      69.13.      Suspended Transactions: ............................................................................................              1065
      69.14.      Cancellation of Indebtedness: ....................................................................................                1066
      69.15.      Collection at Separation or Retirement: .....................................................................                     1066
      69.16.      Collection After Separation: ......................................................................................               1067
      69.17.      Appropriation Data. ...................................................................................................           1068
      69.18.      Detail Supporting JUMPS Miscellaneous Deductions Report (PCN
                  UH099C187). ............................................................................................................          1069
      69.19.      Open or Suspended Questionable Indebtedness: .......................................................                              1071
Table 69.1. replaced with the following: .....................................................................................                      1072
Table 69.2. REPAYMENT APPROVAL LEVEL (EXCEPT ADVANCE PAY) ......................                                                                    1073
      69.20.      Appeal: .......................................................................................................................   1074
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                             39


      69.21.      Remission. ..................................................................................................................      1075
      69.22.      Waiver. .......................................................................................................................    1075
      69.23.      Claim. .........................................................................................................................   1076
Figure 69.1. Notification of an Indebtedness. (FSO-generated debt). .........................................                                        1076
Figure 69.2. Notification of Salary Offset. ....................................................................................                     1079

Chapter 70— INDEBTEDNESS-AIR FORCE (OTHER THAN DISHONORED
           CHECKS, COMMISSARY AND NON-APPROPRIATED FUND)                                                                                             1081

Section 70A—Shipment of Personal Property.                                                                                                           1081
      70.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................      1081
      70.2.       Report of Survey. .......................................................................................................          1081
      70.3.       Overpayment of Pay and Allowances. .......................................................................                         1081
      70.4.       Overpayment for DW Repayment. ............................................................................                         1084
      70.5.       Excess Leave Computations and Collections. ...........................................................                             1084
      70.6.       Health Professionals Special Pays. ............................................................................                    1085
      70.7.       Excess Cost of HHG/Trailer Move. ...........................................................................                       1085
      70.8.       Rebuttal of Excess Cost. ............................................................................................              1086

Section 70B—Advance Payments and Casual and Partial Payments.                                                                                        1087
      70.9.       Advance Payments (DV). ..........................................................................................                  1087
      70.10.      Casual and Partial Payments (DW). ..........................................................................                       1087
      70.11.      Compensation Received From Non-Government Sources (DS). ..............................                                             1088
      70.12.      Jury Duty Fees and Witness Fees. .............................................................................                     1088

Section 70C—Miscellaneous Indebtedness.                                                                                                              1088
      70.13.      Overpayment of Advance Travel and Travel Costs. ..................................................                                 1088
      70.14.      Cost-Charge Transportation Request (TR). ...............................................................                           1089
      70.15.      FHA Mortgage Insurance. .........................................................................................                  1089
      70.16.      Damage to Family Housing Unit or Unaccompanied Personnel Housing Unit
                  (Dormitory). ...............................................................................................................       1089
      70.17.      Medical Care Charges. ...............................................................................................              1089
      70.18.      Medical Officer Furnished Stipend. ...........................................................................                     1089
      70.19.      Housing........................................................................................................................    1090
      70.20.      Replacement Checks and FSO-Accepted Dishonored Checks. .................................                                           1090
40                                                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      70.21.       Subsistence and Meal Charge Indebtedness for Deployed Members. .......................                                            1091
      70.22.       Debts Established as a Result of OSI Investigations. ................................................                             1091
      70.23.       Air Force Education Assistance. ................................................................................                  1091
      70.24.       RESERVED. .............................................................................................................           1091
      70.25.       Telephone and Utility Bills and Trailer Space Rental. ..............................................                              1091
      70.26.       Billeting. ....................................................................................................................   1092
      70.27.       Salary Offset. .............................................................................................................      1092
      70.28.       Other Miscellaneous Debts. .........................................................................................              1092
      70.29.       Meal Charges (FID DN). ...........................................................................................                1093
Figure 70.1. Promissory Note. ......................................................................................................                 1094
Figure 70.2. Formats to Start/Stop, Change, Correct, Cancel or Suspend Collection of
             GPLD or Report of Survey. ......................................................................................                        1095
Figure 70.3. Formats to Suspend or Remit GPLD or Report of Survey. ......................................                                            1099
Figure 70.4. Format to Start Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances. .................                                                   1101
Figure 70.5. Format to Change Monthly Deduction for Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay
             and Allowances. (The DQ04 is not programmed to be used on V status records.) ....                                                       1110
Figure 70.6. Format to Correct Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances. .............                                                     1111
Figure 70.7. Formats to Cancel, Suspend Collection, Resume Collection or Remit
             Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances. ..........................................                                          1112
Figure 70.8. Format of Descriptive Data for Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and
             Allowances. ..............................................................................................................              1115
Figure 70.9. Formats to Start/Stop or Change Indebtedness for Excess Cost. ..............................                                            1120
Figure 70.10. Formats to Correct or Cancel Indebtedness for Excess Cost. ...................................                                         1122
Figure 70.11. Formats to Suspend or Resume Collection for Excess Cost. ....................................                                          1124
Figure 70.12. Format to Remit Indebtedness for Excess Cost. .......................................................                                  1126
Figure 70.13. Format to Start/Stop Miscellaneous Indebtedness. ...................................................                                   1127
Figure 70.14. Format to Change Miscellaneous Indebtedness. .......................................................                                   1135
Figure 70.15. Format to Correct Miscellaneous Indebtedness. .......................................................                                  1136
Figure 70.16. Formats to Cancel or Suspend Miscellaneous Indebtedness. ...................................                                           1145
Figure 70.17. Format to Resume Collection or to Remit Miscellaneous Indebtedness. .................                                                  1147
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                            41


Chapter 71— INDEBTEDNESS - DISHONORED CHECKS, COMMISSARY OR
           NON-APPROPRIATED FUND INSTRUMENTALITIES (NAFI)                                                                                           1149
      71.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................      1149
      71.2.      Dishonored Checks from Dependents. ......................................................................                          1149
      71.3.      Dishonored Commissary Checks. ..............................................................................                       1149
      71.4.      Air Force Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality. ..................................................                                1150
      71.5.      Other Services Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality. ..........................................                                   1152
      71.6.      Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES). ....................................................                                  1153
      71.7.      Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) Tactical Field Exchanges
                 (TFE). ........................................................................................................................    1154
      71.8.      Other Service Exchange. ............................................................................................               1154

Chapter 72— INDEBTEDNESS -- NON AIR FORCE                                                                                                           1156
      72.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................      1156
      72.2.      Federal Tax Levies: ...................................................................................................            1156
      72.3.      Bankruptcy and Wage Earner Plan. ...........................................................................                       1157
      72.4.      Recoupment of Monies Owed Air Force Aid Society (AFAS) From Final Pay. ........                                                    1158
      72.5.      Article 139, Uniform Code of Military Justice. .........................................................                           1159
      72.6.      Bank of America Travel Card Debts. ........................................................................                        1159
      72.7.      Treasury Offset Program (TOP). ...............................................................................                     1160
Figure 72.1. Member's Instructions for Preparing Statement of Personal Exemptions. ...............                                                  1161
Figure 72.2. Format to Change Advance Payment or Monetary Punishment. ..............................                                                1162

Chapter 73— REMISSION AND WAIVER                                                                                                                    1163
Section 73A—Remissions.                                                                                                                             1163
      73.1.      Description. ................................................................................................................      1163
      73.2.      Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                 1163
      73.3.      FSO: ...........................................................................................................................   1163
Table 73.1. replace with the following: .......................................................................................                     1164
      73.4.      AFFSC: ......................................................................................................................      1165
      73.5.      Special Provisions. .....................................................................................................          1165

Section 73B—Waivers.                                                                                                                                1166
      73.6.      General. ......................................................................................................................    1166
42                                                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     73.7.    Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................                 1166
     73.8.    FSO: ...........................................................................................................................   1166
     73.9.    DFAS-IN: ...................................................................................................................       1166
Figure 73.1. DD Form 2789, Waiver/Remission of Indebtedness .Application. ..........................                                             1168
Figure 73.2. AF Form 2451, Financial Statement - Remission of Indebtedness. .........................                                            1170

Chapter 74— CLAIMS                                                                                                                               1172
     74.1.    Description: ................................................................................................................      1172
     74.2.    Supporting Documents for In-Service Claims: ..........................................................                             1172
     74.3.    Excess Cost on a Shipment of Personal Property. .....................................................                              1173
     74.4.    Claims Involving Agencies Outside Air Force. .........................................................                             1174

Chapter 75— SAVE PAY                                                                                                                             1175
     75.1.    Description. ................................................................................................................      1175
     75.2.    Types. .........................................................................................................................   1175
     75.3.    Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................        1175
     75.4.    Interface with Accessions. .........................................................................................               1175
     75.5.    Interface with Change of Category (E6). ...................................................................                        1175

Chapter 76— VOUCHER PROCESSING, DISPOSITION AND BALANCING                                                                                        1177
     76.1.    Description. ................................................................................................................      1177
     76.2.    Substantiating Documents: ........................................................................................                 1177
     76.3.    Voucher Numbering Scheme: ....................................................................................                     1177
     76.4.    Voucher Preparation. .................................................................................................             1178
     76.5.    Voucher Total Input Transactions. ............................................................................                     1178
     76.6.    Voucher Balancing. ...................................................................................................             1179
     76.7.    UH099C0809 Report. ................................................................................................                1179
     76.8.    Daily DJMS/MAFR Reconciliation. ..........................................................................                         1180
     76.9.    Reconciling the UH099C0809 Report: ......................................................................                          1180
     76.10.   FA0809D Report, Members with Uncleared NQ and PX Entries. ............................                                             1181
     76.11.   DFAS-DE Processing. ...............................................................................................                1183
     76.12.   Adjustment to MAFR (Current FY or Prior FY). ......................................................                                1183
     76.13.   Quality Assurance (QA). ...........................................................................................                1184
     76.14.   Special Operating Procedures. ...................................................................................                  1184
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                                   43


Figure 76.1. DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher. ......................................................................                                     1185
Figure 76.2. SF 1081, Voucher and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits. .................................                                                   1186
Figure 76.3. SF 1081, Voucher and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits. .................................                                                   1187
Figure 76.4. OF 1017-G, Journal Voucher. ...................................................................................                               1188
Figure 76.5. DJMS Voucher Balancing/MAFR Reconciliation Report. .......................................                                                    1189
Figure 76.6. Members With Uncleared NQ and PX Entries. ........................................................                                            1190
Figure 76.7. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collection Voucher Control Total. .................                                                        1191
Figure 76.8. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payment Voucher Control Total. ....................                                                        1193
Figure 76.9.            ................................................................................................................................   1194

Chapter 77— CROSS-DISBURSING                                                                                                                               1195
       77.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................           1195
       77.2.       Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................                      1195
       77.3.       Transient Payments. ...................................................................................................                 1196
       77.4.       FSO Action: ...............................................................................................................             1198
       77.5.       Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................               1199
Figure 77.1. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO Authorized Payments for Casual
             Payments. ..................................................................................................................                  1203
Figure 77.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Partial Pay. ..........................                                                     1205
Figure 77.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payment Voucher Control Total. ....................                                                        1207

Chapter 78— PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS AND CORRECTIONS OF GRADE                                                                                                 1208
       78.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................           1208
       78.2.       De Facto Promotions (Officer/Enlisted). ...................................................................                             1208

Chapter 79— EMERGENCY AND DEPLOYMENT PROCEDURES                                                                                                            1209

Section 79A—Emergency Evacuation.                                                                                                                          1209
       79.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................           1209
       79.2.       Definitions. ................................................................................................................           1209
       79.3.       Substantiating Documents. ........................................................................................                      1209
       79.4.       Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................             1209
       79.5.       FSO Actions. ..............................................................................................................             1210
       79.6.       Special Provisions: .....................................................................................................               1211
44                                                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      79.7.       DFAS-DE Actions. ....................................................................................................           1212

Section 79B—Deployment.                                                                                                                           1213
      79.8.       Deployment Briefing. ................................................................................................           1213
      79.9.       Payments Before or During Deployment: .................................................................                         1213
      79.10.      FSO Actions: ..............................................................................................................     1213
Figure 79.1. DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay and Allowance. ......                                                      1215
Figure 79.2. Instructions for Use of DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency
             Pay and Allowance. ..................................................................................................                1216
Table 79.1. Preparation and Correction of DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for
            Emergency Pay and Allowances. .............................................................................                           1217
Table 79.2. Disposition of DD Form 1337. .................................................................................                        1219

Chapter 80— JUMPS PAY SERVICE FOR AIR NATIONAL GUARD (ANG) AND
           AIR FORCE RESERVE (USAFR) PERSONNEL                                                                                                    1220
      80.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   1220
      80.2.       Establishing Accounts. ...............................................................................................          1220
      80.3.       Notification of Duty Performance for Individual Mobilization Augmentee
                  (IMA) Personnel. .......................................................................................................        1220
Figure 80.1. Format to Report Payment of ARPAS Partial Pay. ..................................................                                    1223

Chapter 81— VOIDABLE ENLISTMENT                                                                                                                   1224
      81.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   1224
      81.2.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................     1224
      81.3.       Effect on MMPA: ......................................................................................................          1224
      81.4.       DFAS-DE Output: .....................................................................................................           1224

Chapter 82— PRIVACY ACT OF 1974                                                                                                                   1225
      82.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   1225
      82.2.       Access by Individuals to Their Records. ...................................................................                     1225
      82.3.       Disclosures of Personal Information To Other Agencies And Individuals. ..............                                           1225
      82.4.       Collection of Personal Information From Individuals: ..............................................                             1226
      82.5.       Accounting Of Disclosures: .......................................................................................              1226

Chapter 83— LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE PROGRAM (LTCIP)                                                                                              1227
      83.1.       Description. ................................................................................................................   1227
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                     45


   83.2.   Source of Input. ..........................................................................................................       1227

Chapter 84— COMMAND RESPONSIBILITY PAY (CRP)                                                                                                 1228
   84.1.   Description. ................................................................................................................     1228
   84.2.   Responsibility. ...........................................................................................................       1228
   84.3.   Case Establishment, Substantiating Documentation and Processing Procedures. .....                                                 1228
   84.4.   Inquiries. ....................................................................................................................   1229
   84.5.   Deleted .......................................................................................................................   1229
   84.6.   Adopted Forms, was removed from Chapter 84 and moved to the end of
           Attachment 1. ..........................................................................................................          1229
   84.7.   Forms Prescribed, was removed from chapter 84 and moved to the end of
           Attachment 1.    .........................................................................................................        1230

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              1231

Attachment 2— JFTR/JTR LOCATION CODES, PER DIEM RATES AND
           DIRECTORY OF GOVERNMENT FACILITIES                                                                                                1240

Attachment 3— ON-LINE DJMS SYSTEMS AVAILABLE FOR ACCESS                                                                                      1241

Attachment 4— ADVANCE PAY CATEGORIES                                                                                                         1246

Attachment 5— VETERANS ADMINISTRATION REGIONAL OFFICES                                                                                       1248

Attachment 6— TAXING AUTHORITY, CITY AND STATE                                                                                               1260

Attachment 7— MISCELLANEOUS, INDEBTEDNESS TYPE                                                                                               1268

Attachment 8— ALLOTMENT CLASS, PAY AND FLASH CODES
           (ALOTMT-CLASS-PAY) (ALOTMT-FLASH-CODE)                                                                                            1271

Attachment 9— CLOTHING ALLOWANCE, EXTRA TYPE                                                                                                 1274

Attachment 10— COMPUTER PROCESSING CONTROL CODES (CNTRL-CODE)                                                                                1276

Attachment 11— ENTRY OPEN DATA (EOD) (ENTRY-OPEN-DT)                                                                                         1279

Attachment 12— ENTRY CLOSED DATA (ECD) (ENTRY-CLSD-DT)                                                                                       1280

Attachment 13— COMPUTER OPEN STATUS ENTRIES, NUMBER OF
           (CMPTR-OPEN-STAT-ENTRY-NR) AND STATUS DETERMINANT
           CODES (STATS-DETRMNT)                                                                                                             1282
46                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Attachment 14— CONFINEMENT TYPE CODES                                  1285

Attachment 15— FEDERAL INCOME TAX WITHHOLDING (FITW) FOR WAGES
           PAID BEGINNING IN JANUARY OF CALENDAR YEAR 2006.            1286

Attachment 16— UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (USPS) OFFICIAL
           ABBREVIATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES,
           AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA                                1360

Attachment 17— COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD                                  1363

Attachment 18— ACTION INDICATORS                                       1394

Attachment 19— FORMAT IDENTIFICATION (FORMAT ID)                       1403

Attachment 20— TRANSACTIONS THAT WILL NOT PROCESS IN "T" STATUS        1431

Attachment 21— SYSOUT ARCHIVE AND RETRIEVAL (SAR) SOFTWARE USE
           INSTRUCTIONS (MAINFRAME)                                    1432

Attachment 22— AIR FORCE IN-PUT SOURCE INDICATOR (ISI) / ACCOUNTING
           AND DISBURSING STATION NUMBERS (ADSN)IN ISI/ADSN
           SEQUENCE                                                    1453

Attachment 23— MANAGEMENT NOTICES                                      1475

Attachment 24— AFPC MATCH FLAG CODE (AFPC-MATCH-CODE)                  1485

Attachment 25— CHECKLIST FOR AWOL, CONFINEMENT, COURT-MARTIAL,
           AND APPELLATE REVIEW LEAVE STATUS                           1486

Attachment 26— SCHEDULE OF VERIFICATIONS, RECERTIFICATIONS AND
           RECONCILIATIONS                                             1489

Attachment 27— EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS REPORTS SYSTEM (EARS) USER
           MANUAL                                                      1492
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                47


                                                Chapter 1

                           ORGANIZATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Description. The outline of the responsibilities of organizations and individuals involved in Defense
Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) has changed due to consolidation. Detailed instructions for specific
transactions are in applicable chapters. Whenever procedures, programs, or products do not support the
requirements of the organization or member, notify the responsible office as shown in this chapter.

1.2. Financial Services Officer (FSO). The FSO, as the base-level administrator of DJMS, provides
adequate pay service to the member by resolving pay problems and inquiries addressed by the member.
Regardless of the source of pay-affecting input, that is, category I, II, III, IV, V (per Chapter 2), the FSO
acts as mediator in obtaining information from outside sources so that the member's pay problem can be
resolved without referring the member to another office.
   1.2.1. Pay Record Accessibility (PRA). The FSO, Deputy, or a responsible supervisor is responsible
   for a semiannual audit of pay records of all personnel assigned to the financial management (FM)
   organization at the base.
       1.2.1.1. Applicability. PRA control applies to accounts of:
           1.2.1.1.1. FM Personnel with DJMS input capability.
           1.2.1.1.2. Administrators for LeaveWeb and Defense Milpay Office (DMO).
           1.2.1.1.3. A random sample of any military relatives of the two above, regardless of base
           assignment.
           1.2.1.1.4. A random sample of other, locally assigned FM military personnel
       1.2.1.2. Actions. The FSO, deputy, or a responsible supervisor (designated in writing) maintains
       AF Form 2070, JUMPS Pay Accessibility Roster (Figure 1.1.), as specified below:
           1.2.1.2.1. Remakes roster semiannually in May and November each year in original and one
           copy. Currently, the flagged records are included on the listing obtained from the OFFLINE
           reporting control system (see the OFFLINE users guide), every quarter. Ensure the listings are
           downloaded when produced and saved until required to perform the audit.
           1.2.1.2.2. Adds new personnel to the roster as PRA is established. Submits an SC04 transac-
           tion with a 0 (zero) in PRA-INDICATOR to establish the PRA indicator. Deletes personnel
           departing permanent change of station (PCS), separating, or retiring, and no longer subject to
           PRA by not putting them on the next roster (do not delete from current roster). Submits an
           SC04 transaction with an asterisk (*) in PRA-INDICATOR to delete the PRA indicator.
           1.2.1.2.3. Includes in column A of the roster, full name (last, first, middle) and SSN of each
           military member or employee of the activity subject to PRA. Military member or employee
           completes columns B, C, and D. Enters "None" in column C and "NA" in column D if not
           applicable.
       1.2.1.3. Irregular Payments on PRA Accounts. Follow these rules:
           1.2.1.3.1. Consider each irregular payment on its individual merit and circumstances.
48                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


            1.2.1.3.2. Advise approving official if a member is receiving frequent irregular payments.
            1.2.1.3.3. Do not condone offsetting partial payments.
            1.2.1.3.4. Counsel member who receives more than three partial payments in a 6-month
            period.
            1.2.1.3.5. Enter appropriate explanatory remark on supporting voucher.
        1.2.1.4. Audit. The FSO, deputy, or a designated supervisor obtains the latest PRA listing pro-
        duced by the Off-line Reporting Control System. For members not appearing on the Offline
        Reporting Control System list, process an SC04 to establish the PRA indicator. Obtain a current
        copy of the Master Military Pay Account (MMPA) or review the computer screen of the MMPA
        for each individual on the PRA roster. Although all relatives of members or employees are
        entered on the roster, only members serviced by the local accounting and disbursing station num-
        ber (ADSN) are subject to a PRA audit. In addition to the semiannual requirement, PRA audits
        are required any time a member, subject to PRA control, departs PCS, is relieved of duties, sepa-
        rates, or retires. Proceed with PRA audit as follows:
            1.2.1.4.1. Review the Offline Reporting Control list or the member's current MMPA to see if
            there has been a $100 net change of combined mid-month, end-of-month, and carried forward
            amounts for current month compared to prior month, or a monthly leave increase of over 2.5
            days, or any leave or indebtedness cancellation. Audit record as follows:
                1.2.1.4.1.1. Obtain MMPA printout if necessary.
                1.2.1.4.1.2. Examine the source documents supporting actions identified in 1 above and
                determine that transactions are correctly supported and processed.
            1.2.1.4.2. If member does not have a $100 net change or a leave increase over 2.5 days, further
            audit is not required.
            1.2.1.4.3. Show that all transactions have been processed properly by signing and dating the
            roster. Original signature is required on the AF Forms 2070 submitted to the Denver Federal
            Records Center (DFRC).
            1.2.1.4.4. Send completed PRA roster to Customer Support at the end of the semiannual
            period for inclusion in the shipment of source documents to DFRC. The roster that is prepared
            in May is submitted with the quarterly document submission in July, and the roster that is pre-
            pared in November is submitted with January’s document submission. Keep duplicate copy
            per Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
     1.2.2. Organization of Military Pay Functional Area. FSO responsibility for DJMS processing is
     exercised within a military pay area. The organizational structure must allow for a controlled flow of
     documentation and processing, enhanced customer service, and security, by separation of duties and
     responsibilities. Examples of variations are: pay teams, responsible for all organizational function
     within each team, or special action sections. The FSO makes sure that under any organizational struc-
     ture established, the controls, security, and responsibilities of the military pay section are not compro-
     mised.

1.3. FSO Servicing Policy.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               49


   1.3.1. Active duty Air Force members located on an installation with a host command FSO are ser-
   viced by the host active duty FSO, regardless of command affiliation. Reserve members of separate
   units collocated on an installation with an FSO are serviced by that FSO regardless of gaining com-
   mand affiliation.
   1.3.2. Air Force members assigned to a unit geographically separated from any FSO (a GSU) are ser-
   viced by the FSO that is nearest to the duty location of the member, where feasible. FSO servicing
   responsibility should be aligned so that the military population is supported for both personnel and
   pay service at the same location, whenever possible. For members serviced by active duty FSOs:
      1.3.2.1. If GSU members receive personnel support from a collocated MPF, the nearest FSO fur-
      nishes pay support.
      1.3.2.2. If GSU members do not receive collocated MPF support, the nearest FSO that has a col-
      located MPF furnishes support provided the distance is not significantly greater than the nearest
      MPF or FSO.
      1.3.2.3. Where the distance from the collocated MPF/FSO is significantly greater than the nearest
      MPF or FSO, the nearest FSO furnishes pay service to the GSU.
   1.3.3. Usually, FSOs nearest the installation service all units located on an installation separated from
   an FSO (GSUs) regardless of their command affiliation. The host GSU provides the liaison between
   the servicing FSO and other GSUs at the installation.
   1.3.4. Servicing FSO for Newly Established Units. The parent major command of newly established
   units determines the servicing FSO for the unit based on the criteria contained in paragraph 1-3. The
   parent major command advises the gaining FSO and major command of the selected FSO by message.
   Provide an information copy of the message to the gaining major command/DPM, Headquarters Air
   Force Personnel Center (HQ AFPC/DPMYCO) and AFAFO as well as DFAS-JMPA/DE. The mes-
   sage includes unit designation, personnel accounting symbol (PAS) code, and the effective date of the
   action. The action is considered approved unless the gaining major command or AFAFO advises the
   parent major command of their disagreement.
   1.3.5. Forwarding FSO Records, Source Documents, and Correspondence Between FSOs. Use the
   PAS directory (HAF-DPM(M)7104) to determine the gaining or losing FSO. Use AFDIR 37-135 to
   obtain the correct mailing address for FSOs.
   1.3.6. Deviations. Obtain any deviations from the above policy in writing from AFAFO. Request
   waiver through losing major command to gaining major command. Gaining major command will for-
   ward concurrence or non-concurrence to AFAFO for their approval or disapproval. Indicate name and
   location of unit, number of accounts involved, proposed date of transfer, and rationale for requesting
   the waiver. Also, indicate location of servicing MPF.

1.4. Chief of Customer Service/Customer Support. Under the direction of the FSO or deputy, the
chief of Customer Service/Customer Support assigns duties and responsibilities to the appropriate
sub-unit within Customer Service/Customer Support. The chief of Customer Service/Customer Support
also:
   1.4.1. Supervises overall Customer Service/Customer Support operations.
   1.4.2. Coordinates pay matters with GSUs and other base activities.
50                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     1.4.3. Coordinates and controls computer operations with DFAS-DE.
     1.4.4. Schedules cutoffs for documents, computer updates, transmittals to DFAS-DE.
     1.4.5. Supervises preparation and control of correspondence and maintenance of files.
     1.4.6. Establishes controls to ensure pay-affecting documents are properly and accurately keyed into
     the computer for bases not cutover to the AFFSC. Once a base cuts over, processing is centralized at
     the AFFSC.
     1.4.7. Establishes controls to ensure actions required on system generated products are promptly and
     accurately accomplished.
     1.4.8. Ensures prompt delivery of DFAS Form 702, Leave and Earnings Statement; DFAS Form 703,
     Net Pay Advice; and TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement.
     1.4.9. Verifies that locally authorized casual, partial, and advance payments are supported by the
     proper authorizations.
     1.4.10. Supervises preparation and reporting of payments and collections to DJMS-AC and
     DJMS-RC.
     1.4.11. Makes sure all suppressions of regular pay are input for update.
     1.4.12. Supervises control, maintenance, and processing of Customer Service/Customer Support doc-
     uments.
     1.4.13. Assigns and rotates responsibilities to make sure personnel are adequately trained and uti-
     lized.
     1.4.14. Performs other duties delegated by the FSO.
     1.4.15. Provides a roster (Figure 1.2.) to quality examination (QE) referencing the requirements for
     certifying officers found in DoDFMR 7000.14R, Volume 5, chapter 33, and AFMAN 65-116, V1,
     Chapter 2. Each FSO individual who acts as a certifying official on Customer Service/Customer
     Support pay affecting documents must have his or her name typed below the requirements and each
     must sign the blank line next to his or her name, both as an indication of having read and understood
     the requirements and to use as a signature check.

1.5. Customer Service. The individuals assigned to customer service work areas other than the function
formerly known as military pay. However, for the purpose of this manual, only military pay-type func-
tions will be addressed.
     1.5.1. Work with customers, discussing entitlements, problems, and military pay concerns. Assist
     members with allotments, etc., including completion of the necessary documentation. Advise mem-
     bers concerning effective dates of the requested/required changes.
     1.5.2. Ensure all documents requiring certification are properly certified before transferring for input.
     1.5.3. Provide copies, upon request, of payroll products (i.e., LES, NPA, TD Forms W-2).
     1.5.4. Provide retired pay/annuitant customer service.
     1.5.5. Conduct in and out processing, to include deployment, ensuring supporting documents are
     completed and certified.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            51


   1.5.6. Work open/suspended questionable indebtedness listing. Dependency determinations, and pro-
   vide debt notification/due process.
   1.5.7. Work verifications, reconciliation’s, and recertifications of entitlements as required

1.6. Customer Support. The area of customer support, for the purpose of this manual, is comprised of
the former pay service and control, quality examination and processing functions. Therefore, under the
guidance of the chief, customer service/customer support, the customer support area:
   1.6.1. Receives, controls, and distributes correspondence, pay documents, leave documents, customer
   service/customer support products, outgoing mail, maintains suspense and permanent correspondence
   files, daily register of transactions (DROT), document transmittal listing (DTL), and source docu-
   ments from which DJMS input was prepared, and the daily transaction record (DTR). Also keeps the
   suspense file of DD Forms 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization.
   1.6.2. Packages and ships all substantiating documents to the Denver Federal Records Center (DFRC)
   quarterly (Records Center Handbook available on FTP site for reference).
   1.6.3. Controls distribution of the DROT and data collection input listing to input sources to include
   processed transactions originated by others listing (UH099CA11), a copy of which is used by individ-
   uals doing travel computation.
   1.6.4. Controls submission of documents by input source.
   1.6.5. Receives, controls, maintains, and transfers accounts for all members.
   1.6.6. Receives and screens copies of settled travel vouchers for appropriate entitlement adjustments
   (i.e., Hardship Duty Pay, Imminent Danger Pay, Family Separation Allowance).
   1.6.7. Accomplishes input of all payment and collection actions, unless processing has been central-
   ized at the AFFSC.
   1.6.8. Receives category III pay-affecting substantiating documents from outside sources.
   1.6.9. Reviews pay documents for accuracy and completeness and processes DJMS input transac-
   tions, unless processing has been centralized at the AFFSC.
   1.6.10. Reviews and corrects rejected transactions.
   1.6.11. Prepares disbursement and collection data for cash and appropriation accounting records.
   1.6.12. Receives and processes leave accounting documents, processes corrections as needed, and
   includes in quarterly transmission to the Denver Federal Records Center (DFRC), unless processing
   has been centralized at the AFFSC in which case documents are submitted via EIM and retained elec-
   tronically for 6 years 3 months.
   1.6.13. Reviews all products and input against substantiating documents to ensure transaction accu-
   racy and completeness.
   1.6.14. Receives the DROT and DTR and controls the correction of rejects and verifies processing of
   transactions. Also reviews all automated products to ensure DFAS-DE update actions were accurate
   and complete.
   1.6.15. Reconciles out-of-balance conditions resulting from payment/pay authorization, payment/
   merged accountability and fund reporting (MAFR), and detail payment/voucher total imbalances.
52                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     1.6.16. Reviews pay authorization printed on the DROT and pay authorization balance sheet to make
     sure the file was updated as intended.
     1.6.17. Analyzes operations periodically to detect problems and make improvement. Included in this
     function is the requirement to conduct annual visits to all FSO input sources to ensure compliance
     with DJMS directives. Exceptions to this requirement are at the discretion of the FSO based on the
     performance of each input source. If performance is substandard, assistance and/or inspections
     should be provided monthly or more frequently until performance is at a satisfactory level. Visits
     should include, but are not limited to, the following:
        1.6.17.1. Review of document preparation and control procedures; AF Form 220, Request,
        Authorization, and Pay Order Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS), AF For 594, Application
        and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ) or Dependency
        Redetermination.
        1.6.17.2. Ensure proper follow-up action is being taken for source documents in suspense which
        have not been acknowledged within 5 days by an entry on the DROT or data collection input list.
        1.6.17.3. Ensure DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature, is
        maintained for each certifying officer appointed under DoDFMR, Volume 5, chapter 33.
     1.6.18. Reviews, controls, or corrects any transactions rejected by DFAS-DE.
     1.6.19. Controls management notices to make sure responsible individual takes corrective action.
     1.6.20. Uses offline reporting system, as outlined in subsequent chapters, or at the discretion of the
     FSO.
     1.6.21. Maintains a current copy of the certifying officials roster (see Figure 1.2.), easily visible at
     each work station. Periodically compares signatures on documents to this list of personnel within the
     FSO who certify military pay documents. On a monthly basis, perform a review of a sample of docu-
     ments certified within the FSO and processed in the prior month, comparing them to the list of certi-
     fying officials. The sample should consist of 5 percent of all documents certified within the FSO or
     100 such documents, whichever is smaller. In addition to this review, the quality assurance manager
     at each base will review 100 such documents on a quarterly basis, as required by AFI 65-202, chapter
     7, paragraph 7.4.1. Ensures sampling is accomplished prior to submission to the DFRC.
     1.6.22. Accomplishes PRA audit as directed.

1.7. Member. Provides FSO information and documents required to support pay entitlements (basic
allowance for housing (BAH), overseas housing allowance (OHA), etc.), delivery of pay products (net
pay advices, leave and earnings statements, etc.), payments and allotments.

1.8. Other Government Agencies. Agencies of the United States Government advise DFAS-DE of
debts of an Air Force member (i.e., Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax levy, defaulted loan, etc.) and
request offset in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514.

1.9. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC). Furnishes DFAS-DE with DJMS data created as a byproduct
of updating centralized military personnel records.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              53


1.10. Other Military Services. Send DFAS-DE copies of voucher and money lists on which Air Force
members were paid. Accounting control is mutually developed and agreed to by the Service concerned
(Chapter 77). The parent Service central computer site receives copies of all paid vouchers. The dis-
bursing Service balances payment and collection vouchers to Treasury reports.

1.11. Military Pay Operations. Whenever DJMS procedures or products do not support the require-
ments of the organization or member, notify DFAS-PMJCA/DE. Report problems by priority message
and telephone as indicated below.
    1.11.1. Message report formats:
        1.11.1.1. Local operations:


                Part I. Report number ______ (include ADSN or input station identifier (ISI) as first
four digits).


                Part II. Manual reference governing product or procedure.


                Part III. Narrative description of problem. Limit each message to one problem.


        1.11.1.2. DFAS-DE operations:


                Part I. Report number ______ (include ADSN or ISI as first four digits).


                Part II. Transaction identification.
                       Item 1. FORMAT-ID.
                       Item 2. Action indicator.
                       Item 3. Member's SSN.
                       Item 4. Name ID.
                       Item 5. Transmission/cycle number.
                       Item 6. Document reference number.
                       Item 7. DFAS-DE update number.


                Part III. Narrative description of problem. Limit each message to one problem.
    1.11.2. Priority Calls. If, in the judgment of the servicing FSO, the situation warrants, the FSO
    reports problem to the Directorate of Military Pay Field Liaison Office (DFAS-PMJCA/DE), DSN
    926-4274. In those cases, problem is confirmed by a routine message in format listed above. Include
    a part IV that reads "This confirms our telephone report of__________."
    1.11.3. See Table 1.1. for help in determining who to contact when problems arise.
54                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 1.1. AF Form 2070, JUMPS Pay Accessibility Roster.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               55


Figure 1.2. CERTIFYING OFFICIALS ROSTER


I understand that by signing this roster, I am stating that I have read and fully understand:


       a.     The requirements of a certifying official as contained in DoDFMR 7000.14R, Volume 5,
Chapter 33, and AFMAN 65-116, Vol 1, Chapter 2.


       b.      That I am not authorized to provide certification on vouchers and documents specifically
required by regulation or directive to be accomplished by the account holder, his or her deputy or agent or
by a person outside the military pay functional area.


      c.      The provisions of DFAS-DE 7000.4-R and the Interim Guidance on Procedures for
Administrative Control of Appropriations and Funds Made Available to the Department of the Air Force.


Name                             Signature                                            Duty Title


John H. Doe


Julia D. Summers


Bruce Belfield
56                                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 1.1. Reporting Problems.
                      A                                B                                 C


R
U
L
E                     If                             and                                then

     1 FSO or Quality Examination       problem pertains to personal       notify DISO-DE/SI system
       system monitor has a known or    computer operations,               monitor at DSN: 926-7310.
       suspected system or procedural   systems, or teleprocessing         This number is manned 24 hours
       problem                          malfunction                        per day, 7 days per week unless
                                                                           notified otherwise. Priority
                                                                           messages may be used in case of
                                                                           telephone communication
                                                                           failure.
     2                                  problem pertains to local          Notify DFAS-DE/FJ, DSN:
                                        operational or systems             926-7351 or use message report
                                        product differences,               format for local operations.
                                        DFAS-DE update, or no
                                        computer operations
     3                                  problem pertains to                Notify DFAS-DE/FJEP, DSN:
                                        organization procedures,           926-7145 or via ECCS.
                                        directive conflicts, or policy
                                        clarification issues.
     4                                  wants to submit a suggested        See paragraph 1-11
                                        change to the system or
                                        product
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             57


                                               Chapter 2

                      DEFENSE JOINT MILITARY PAY SYSTEM (DJMS)

2.1. Description. The Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) used by the Army and the Air Force is
covered by the acronym DJMS-AC. This chapter provides a general overview of DJMS-AC from the
Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Denver (DFAS-DE) perspective.

2.2. Terms Explained:
   2.2.1. MMPA. A Master Military Pay Account (MMPA) is maintained for every active duty Army
   and Air Force member including Air Force Academy Cadets. It contains all entitlement, deduction,
   allotment, collection, payments, status, leave and 12 months' history data. The MMPA is always in a
   projected end-of-current month and next month posture. There are two central files containing
   MMPAs - one at DFAS-DE for all Air Force members paid by DJMS and one at DFAS-IN for all
   Army members paid by DJMS-AC. The MMPA is subdivided into seven groups of major data.
       2.2.1.1. The fixed data group contains data of a fixed size, in a fixed location within each mem-
       ber’s record, that is always present and used consistently during daily updates. Examples of fixed
       data are member’s name, SSN, grade, and basic pay entitlement.
       2.2.1.2. Data in the other six groups are variable and present only when applicable to the member.
       These groups are comprised of allotments, futures, suspenses, entitlements, deductions and history
       entries.
   2.2.2. Category of Input. Identifies the responsible office or area for input to DJMS. The five cate-
   gories of input are:
       2.2.2.1. Category I Transactions - generated as a by-product of updating the Advanced Personnel
       Data System (APDS).
       2.2.2.2. Category II Transactions - originate with the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) and are
       submitted direct to DFAS-DE.
       2.2.2.3. Category III Transactions - flow directly from the source to the Financial Service Office
       (FSO) for input to the centralized MMPA. These transactions do not update APDS.
       2.2.2.4. Category IV Transactions - DFAS-DE computer-generated changes. These event-ori-
       ented changes are created (within the computer) by other inputs.
       2.2.2.5. Category V Transactions - DFAS-DE operating directorate input based on information
       received from sources or by means outside the normal DJMS input channels.
   2.2.3. Input Sources. There are eleven principle sources of input to the central site system. They are:
       2.2.3.1. FSOs - Category III
       2.2.3.2. AFPC - Category II
       2.2.3.3. Army Finance Offices (FOs) - Category III
       2.2.3.4. Military Personnel Flights (MPFs) - Category I
       2.2.3.5. Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) - Category III
58                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        2.2.3.6. Joint Personal Property Shipping Office (JPPSO) - Category III
        2.2.3.7. Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Denver Center's Directorate of Military Pay
        Operations (DFAS-DE/FJ) - Category V
        2.2.3.8. Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Indianapolis Center's Military Pay Operations
        Directorate (DFAS-IN-J) - Category V
        2.2.3.9. Other Service departments - Category V
        2.2.3.10. DJMS/DJMS-AC system generated transactions - Category IV
        2.2.3.11. Air Force Aid Society (AFAS) - Category III
     2.2.4. FID. The format ID (FID) identifies the type of transaction being processed. FID 66, for
     example, denotes Interim Variable Housing Allowance (IVHA).
     2.2.5. AI. The action indicator (AI) notifies the system of the action to be taken on the affected for-
     mat. An AI of 01, for example, indicates a start. Therefore, a 6601 tells the system to start IVHA.
     2.2.6. Summary Accounts File. The summary accounts file summarizes military pay activity data
     contained in each MMPA for the current month and next month. Like the MMPA, data in this file is
     also in a projected end-of-current month position. It contains certain details for each entitlement,
     number of members drawing that entitlement by grade, and other pay determining factors. This file
     also reflects how the pay is distributed. It provides the basis for most end-of-month reports and data
     needed to respond to many kinds of questions concerning entitlements. Whenever an item changes in
     the MMPA, a corresponding adjustment must occur in the summary accounts file so it is in balance
     with the MMPAs. To ensure this equalization between these two files after each update, MMPA con-
     trol totals are compared to the detail summary account transactions. The summary accounts file is
     also used to prepare the monthly Summary of Military Pay Obligation (SOMPO) report sent to the
     appropriate military personnel fund managers. Personnel program planners and fund managers also
     use data from the summary accounts file.
     2.2.7. Statistical File. The statistical file is updated as transactions are processed. This file summa-
     rizes statistical transaction data to provide the volume of activity processed during the month as well
     as the type, source, and any rejects that occurred. Input timeliness, that is, the lag between the effec-
     tive date of the event and the date the transaction was processed at the appropriate central site process-
     ing center, is tracked as well. The statistical file identifies high volume items, high volume rejects,
     and where they come from, which enables DFAS to identify problem areas. This file is used as a
     guide for examination of the system and manuals to determine where correction, clarification, or
     refinement are needed.
     2.2.8. Central Pay Authorizations. The central pay authorization files contain payroll information for
     members who are centrally paid by DFAS-DE and DFAS-IN. These files are used to produce central
     payrolls and must balance to the related amounts in the MMPAs. There are two types of pay authori-
     zations.
        2.2.8.1. First is the regular pay authorization, used to pay members at mid-month and/or
        end-of-month paydays. This authorization is generated each time an input transaction is processed
        that causes a member to be due more or less money for the month. If a member has elected to send
        his or her check to a financial organization, the authorization is maintained in the appropriate cen-
        tral pay authorization file used to generate electronic funds transfer to arrive at that organization
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            59


     on payday. If the member opts to receive a check, the pay authorization is maintained in the
     appropriate Local Pay Master File and a paper check is cut and mailed to arrive on payday.
     2.2.8.2. The second type of pay authorization is the one-time pay authorization, used by the
     base-level FSO to make one-time payments, such as reenlistment bonus, continuation pay, or sep-
     aration pay.
  2.2.9. Feedback. There are several types of feedback from DJMS-AC. They include:
     2.2.9.1. Routine Administrative Feedback. This type acknowledges input from personnel offices
     as well as FSOs and other input sources, rejected and local personnel input, and replies to certain
     inquiries that are sent directly to the input source. An error description accompanies each reject
     explaining what was wrong with the transaction. The input source must, of course, correct and
     resubmit the transaction as appropriate.
     2.2.9.2. Daily Transaction Register. The Daily Transaction Register (DTR) is the second major
     feedback item generated by DJMS-AC. It is a comprehensive record of all transactions input into
     the system and transactions generated by the system as a result of processing certain transactions.
     See paragraph 2-8 for an explanation of the various sections of the DTR. A DTR is prepared for
     each FSO/FO servicing members whose MMPAs are affected by transactions processed. A DTR
     is also prepared for central site activities for their input. The DTR includes all input, including
     computer-generated transactions, processed in the update. It is then produced on microfiche for
     the FSO, FO, MPF, DFAS-DE, and DFAS-IN. Hard copy and on-line inquiry, through Report
     Management System (RMS), are available to certain central site activities. The DTR is a compre-
     hensive record of transactions and a major reference tool. Its importance is highlighted by the fact
     that it provides:
        2.2.9.2.1. acknowledgment of receipt of transactions,
        2.2.9.2.2. control over rejected transactions,
        2.2.9.2.3. notice of transactions internally generated by the system and input by other sources,
        2.2.9.2.4. a status report which enables the FSO/FO to determine whether a member's MMPA
        was correctly updated or whether the transaction rejected or was deferred pending receipt of
        additional data,
        2.2.9.2.5. suspense notices of additional actions required to process a transaction,
        2.2.9.2.6. follow-up notices for suspense items, and
        2.2.9.2.7. an auditable record for use by local operators and auditors.
     2.2.9.3. Leave and Earnings Statement. The Leave and Earnings Statement (LES) is produced
     monthly for each member. After end-of-month cutoff, before the MMPA is restructured to the
     next month's position, LES data is extracted and formatted. This statement contains an itemized
     account of all pay and leave items contained in the MMPA and an explanation of all changes
     occurring during the month. LES data is maintained on the database for 12 months. An inquiry
     system allows the user to view this information and research questions regarding the member's
     MMPA. (For more information on the LES, see Chapter 7.)
60                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     2.2.10. By-Others Transaction. Transaction input by the MPF, AFPC, DFAS-DE, or other FSO's
     which affect a member's MMPA. Transaction processing details are transmitted to the servicing FSO
     (PCN UH099CA11) after each DFAS-DE update.
     2.2.11. Payments and Collections. DFAS-DE records and summarizes entitlements and disburse-
     ments for military pay on DD Form 117, Military Pay Distribution Voucher, and sends summary data
     monthly to the Air Force military pay fund manager for use in obligating funds. Local FSOs pay from
     or collect into a clearing account. Separate clearing accounts are provided for officer and enlisted per-
     sonnel.
        2.2.11.1. Regular Payments. Members elect whether they want to be paid by check or have
        DFAS-DE send their checks to their banks. They also elect to be paid once or twice a month.
            2.2.11.1.1. Check Payments. Paychecks are printed at DFAS-DE. The money list is in
            straight SSN sequence officer and enlisted intermixed and is maintained at DFAS-DE. Regu-
            lar mid-month (MM), end-of-month (EOM) and monthly payments are based on pay authori-
            zations generated by DJMS processing. Payment is made from either the officer or enlisted
            clearing account.
            2.2.11.1.2. Central Payments. DFAS-DE makes regular MM and EOM payments to the bank
            designated by member and updates member's MMPA. DFAS Form 703, DFAS Military Net
            Pay Advice, is forwarded at MM to each member who participates in the Direct Deposit pro-
            gram.
        2.2.11.2. Special Payments. Partial and casual payments are authorized on the basis of data in the
        MMPA and LES history prints, and are paid locally by the FSO. Advance payments are autho-
        rized per DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 32, and are paid by the FSO. These payments are
        reported to DFAS-DE daily.
        2.2.11.3. One-Time Payments. Selective reenlistment bonus (SRB), continuation pay, separation
        pay, and other one-time payments are made locally by the FSO based on pay authorizations
        received from DFAS-DE. They are due and payable on date projected action is complete; for
        example, SRB would be due on date member reenlists. Payment data is reported to DFAS-DE
        immediately after payment.
        2.2.11.4. Cross-Disbursing Payments. Air Force FSOs may make irregular payments to members
        of other Services and disbursing officers of other Services may make irregular payments to Air
        Force members. Report these payments to the member's Service per Chapter 77.
        2.2.11.5. Collections. Local FSOs make collections for indebtedness, temporary lodging allow-
        ance (TLA) overpayments and canceled and undeliverable checks. The FSO reports collections,
        together with necessary identifying information, to DFAS-DE daily. See Chapter 69 through
        Chapter 72 for procedures.
        2.2.11.6. Underpayment or Overpayment Vouchers of $10 or Less. The cost to process over or
        underpayment vouchers of $10 or less exceeds the amount to be collected or disbursed. Do not
        prepare vouchers for over or underpayments of $10 or less. Per DoDFMR Vol 5, chapter 11, para-
        graph 110208, if a disbursement to a payee is overpaid by $10 or less, there is no requirement to
        collect the overpayment. Similarly, if a disbursement to a payee is underpaid by $10 or less, do
        not issue a supplemental payment unless specifically requested by the payee.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              61


   2.2.12. Edits. DJMS category III input is subjected to edits to make sure only acceptable and valid
   data are used to update the MMPA. Incorrect or invalid data is rejected from the system.
       2.2.12.1. Supplied Codes. If immediate recording is essential and an invalid or missing code is
       not critical to DFAS-DE processing, the system supplies an arbitrary valid code to make process-
       ing possible. In most cases the supplied code will be correct. (For example, if the code for sex of
       the member is missing or invalid, the system supplies the code for male and continues to process
       the transaction.) The supplied code is identified by an error code and is printed on the reject list
       (UH499CA46) and on the DTR. Personnel at base level review all supplied codes and either ver-
       ify that they are correct or submit input transactions to change any erroneous ones.
       2.2.12.2. Rejects. Data which fails initial edits must be corrected before additional data can be
       entered. Some errors found in the minimal edits of input transactions make it impossible to access
       the MMPA (for example, invalid name or SSN); when this happens, the transaction is assigned
       appropriate error codes and rejected to the input source. In most transactions one error causes the
       entire transaction to reject; however, if the MMPA can be accessed, all errors (up to a maximum of
       six) are identified before DFAS-DE rejects a transaction to the input source. Base personnel
       research all errors, determine action required and, when applicable, correct and resubmit the trans-
       action.

2.3. Controls. DJMS-AC was designed with as much an eye toward internal control as to service. With-
out these controls, the possibilities for fraud are endless. The Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act
(FMFIA) of 1982, the Auditors General of the Air Force and the Army, and the Comptroller General of
the United States require safeguards be in place to provide the most accurate and timely pay service to the
members while maintaining fiscal responsibility on behalf of the Government. To this end, controls in
place include, but are not limited to:
   2.3.1. Source Documents. Hard copy source documents are mailed to the Denver Federal Records
   Center (DFRC) on a quarterly basis, by the 15th of the month following the end of the quarter
   (Records Center Handbook available on FTP site for reference) along with the Daily Transaction List-
   ing (DTL) reflecting the date they were submitted. These supporting documents, as well as the pay-
   ment vouchers with amounts actually paid, are kept available for audit, quality examination reviews
   and claims settlements.
   2.3.2. Pay Record Accessibility (PRA) Audit. Individuals who have access to military pay records
   are subject to PRA audit. These audits are required on a semi-annual basis and help ensure that this
   access to MMPAs is not misused. (For more information on PRA audit, see Chapter 1 and Chapter
   6.)
   2.3.3. Quality examination is required at base-level and at central site. This review provides a variety
   of controls, from minimizing collusion to reducing rejects. In addition, the quality examination func-
   tion can alert the FSO to trends or problems developing locally.

2.4. Documentation. DJMS processing at base level involves the preparation of category I and III source
documents by units, activities outside the FSO, subject matter areas (SMAs) within the FSO, and MPFs.
The FSO or MPF processes these documents.
   2.4.1. Supporting documents. All entitlements and deductions on behalf of the US Government
   require signed and certified documents completely explaining each action taken. Transactions not
62                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     affecting pay and allowances, but required to maintain a member's pay account, must also be docu-
     mented. All documents must be prepared in ink or by typewriter. Do not use lead pencil. The original
     voucher must not be a carbon impression. Where copies of original documents are specified as DJMS
     supporting documents, they must be legible carbon or non-deteriorating reproduced (bond type) cop-
     ies.
        2.4.1.1. All corrections will be done in pen and ink and initialed by the individual making the cor-
        rection. Draw only one line through the incorrect entry. Do not obliterate the entry being cor-
        rected. Never use whiteout ink or correction tape since these methods are not permanent.
        2.4.1.2. FSO is responsible for the accuracy and validity of all information transmitted to
        DFAS-DE for use in updating MMPAs. Source documents containing questionable information or
        facts which do not justify creation of a DJMS transaction are rejected. FSOs may use their own
        judgment about the evidence.
        2.4.1.3. Signature requirements. When military pay procedures require that a member sign docu-
        ments to support payment of pay and allowances, the member must personally sign the docu-
        ments. If the member is unable to sign:
            2.4.1.3.1. Enter an X mark, in parenthesis, between the member's given name (or names) and
            surname. It must be witnessed by one disinterested person whose signature and address are
            entered immediately after the member's name.
            2.4.1.3.2. If physically unable to sign by mark, the member may authorize another person to
            sign. This must be done in the presence of the member and another witness. Certificates are
            executed by the person who wrote the signature and by the witness. These must state that the
            signature was made at the request of and in the presence of the member and a witness.
            2.4.1.3.3. Any circumstances not covered by the above should be referred to AFAFO for guid-
            ance.
        2.4.1.4. Power of Attorney (POA). An FSO can release pay information to a dependent or an
        attorney-in-fact if the member has provided a POA to the dependent or attorney-in-fact that autho-
        rizes such disclosure, or if the member has otherwise given notarized written consent to the FSO
        authorizing disclosure of pay information to the dependent. As long as the FSO has the member's
        notarized written consent to the release of information, the requirements of the Privacy Act are
        satisfied (AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program).
            2.4.1.4.1. All POAs and written consents must contain clear and unambiguous language
            describing the powers given to the holder of the POA or written consent.
            2.4.1.4.2. A member may designate, by POA only, that another person pick up his/her Trea-
            sury check.
            2.4.1.4.3. DJMS source documents, and claims for pay and allowances, can only be made by
            the member and will not be accepted if signed by an attorney-in-fact using a POA. Use of a
            General Power of Attorney is not acceptable in these types of pay matters. The special POA,
            however, can be completed in the remarks block of the General POA. If the General POA is
            used, only what is written in the remarks block is valid. DoDFMR 7000.14-R, Volume 5
            requires that when an individual authorizes another individual to pick up checks on his or her
            behalf, the POA authorizing such must be prepared on a Special Power of Attorney or by an
            Attorney at Law. Accordingly, if the special POA is prepared on the General POA and will be
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              63


         used to authorize another individual to pick up checks on the member’s behalf, it must be pre-
         pared by an attorney at law.
         2.4.1.4.4. An exception to the policy in subparagraph 2.4.1.4.3. above is that a Special POA
         may be used to establish, change, or stop an allotment. The Special POA must specifically
         state the effective date of the Special POA, to include the termination date (i.e., if not used by
         X date, POA expires). If a new allotment is established, all of the current requirements to start
         an allotment must be met (see Chapter 57 for allotment start requirements). A General POA
         is not acceptable to establish, change, or stop an allotment.
  2.4.2. Source Documents. DJMS requires source documents for all transactions to support changes to
  the MMPA. Figure 2.1. contains general requirements applicable to military pay orders.
     2.4.2.1. Types:
         2.4.2.1.1. Regular Source Documents. Authorize and support changes in entitlement and
         deductions on the MMPA. The various chapters describe the preparation of supporting docu-
         ments to be used for each specific DJMS entitlement, deduction, and miscellaneous MMPA
         data input. Payment and collection vouchers submitted to DFAS-RSAB/DE support the
         DJMS payment and collection input.
         2.4.2.1.2. Miscellaneous Source Documents. Authorize changes to the MMPA which do not
         involve entitlements and deductions, such as payment options.
         2.4.2.1.3. Military Leave Documents. Used only in the leave accounting system. Instructions
         on the use of military leave documents are in Chapter 44.
         2.4.2.1.4. Telegram and Telephone. When the servicing FSO is at a different location from the
         unit, DJMS data may be received by telegram or telephone. Message should cite document
         number, name, and SSN of member, effective date and description of change, and any other
         data necessary to support the change in a member's pay. A confirming certified source docu-
         ment with the same number must be submitted immediately. On receipt of confirming source
         document, verify data on document with that in message and attach copy of message to con-
         firming source document. Messages must also be numbered sequentially for control of
         receipt.
         2.4.2.1.5. Facsimile (FAX) receipt of source documents. Members not physically located
         within close proximity of their servicing FSO may FAX certain source documents to the ser-
         vicing FSO for processing changes to their pay accounts. These documents will be submitted
         to DFAS-DE with the FSO's regular quarterly submission (Records Center Handbook avail-
         able on FTP site for reference) of source documents.
            2.4.2.1.5.1. Authority to accept, via FAX from members, is limited to source documents
            necessary to support:
                2.4.2.1.5.1.1. Address changes;
                2.4.2.1.5.1.2. Financial organization account changes;
                2.4.2.1.5.1.3. Allotment starts, stops, or changes;
                2.4.2.1.5.1.4. Leave requests;
                2.4.2.1.5.1.5. Withholding changes (TD Forms W-4).
64                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                2.4.2.1.5.2. Source documents supporting any pay-affecting transactions may be accepted
                via FAX, with review and signature of either the member's commander or the comptroller/
                budget officer at the member's duty location. Examples include, but are not limited to:
                    2.4.2.1.5.2.1. AF Form 220
                    2.4.2.1.5.2.2. AF Form 594
                    2.4.2.1.5.2.3. DD Form 2367
        2.4.2.2. Forms Used. DJMS input transactions are documented on forms suited for the transac-
        tion and keyed into the computer. These are:
            2.4.2.2.1. AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization.
            2.4.2.2.2. DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop, or Change an Allotment.
            2.4.2.2.3. DD Form 2559, Savings Bond Allotment Authorization/Active Duty or Retired Pay.
            2.4.2.2.4. SBD-2104, Authorization for purchase and request for change United States Series
            EE Savings Bonds.
            2.4.2.2.5. Various source documents prescribed in this volume.
        2.4.2.3. Number of Copies:
            2.4.2.3.1. Initiated in FSO. Prepare original and one copy. (Note: SBD-2104 is available in
            only one original copy front and back. The is the DFAS-DE copy, not an FSO retained copy.)
            2.4.2.3.2. Units or Base Activities. FSO receives original and one copy of source documents
            originated by units or base activities other than the FSO. (Exception: FSO receives only orig-
            inal of SBD-2104 source document. This is the DFAS-DE copy, not a copy to be retained by
            the FSO.)
            2.4.2.3.3. Leave Transactions. See Chapter 44.
        2.4.2.4. Filing of Source Documents. Each source of input keeps a suspense copy of every source
        document. Keep this copy in suspense until acknowledged by an entry on the daily register of
        transactions (DROT), or JUMPS Data Collection Document Transmittal List (DTL),
        (UH099CAO3). Each input source ensures there is a properly certified document in suspense for
        each transaction appearing on the DROT or DTL. Notify the FSO of any transaction appearing on
        the DROT or DTL for which you do not have proper documentation. Follow up to determine pro-
        cessing status of any source documents in suspense which have not been acknowledged within 5
        workdays by an entry on the DROT or DTL. Attach suspense source documents to the applicable
        DROT or DTL and keep per Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
     2.4.3. Certifications. Certification establishes that the facts stated in supporting documents are cor-
     rect. A certifying officer attests from personal knowledge of the facts acquired in performance of
     duty.
        2.4.3.1. Pay-Affecting Documents. Chief, Customer Service, will be primary certifying official,
        with authority to delegate the certification responsibilities to subordinates as appropriate to
        accommodate local circumstances. Certification is required on original document only. When an
        MPO consists of more then one page, sign each original page.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          65


     2.4.3.2. Certification as True Copies. An FSO cannot certify any documents as true copies unless
     they pertain to his or her own personal account.
     2.4.3.3. Signature Cards. DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signa-
     ture, or appointment letters are maintained at each input source for each certifying officer
     appointed under DoDFMR, Volume 5, chapter 33; also see DoDFMR Volume 5, for certification
     of documents within the FSO.
  2.4.4. Input Source Codes. Two alphanumeric characters assigned to each activity authorized to pre-
  pare and submit DJMS documentation. This code identifies source of input to the system and prints
  on the DROT or DTL. The input source code should be annotated in the upper right hand corner of
  the AF Form 1373, MPO Document Control Log - Transmittal (Figure 2.4.), transmittal number
  block and in the upper right hand corner of each source document transmitted. FSO retains AF Form
  1373 per Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. (See Figure 2.2. for FSO source input table.)
  2.4.5. Processing Documentation, which originated outside the FSO, within Customer Support. Cus-
  tomer Support receives two copies of category III documents, except leave forms and MPF-originated
  AF Forms 2098, Duty Status Change, on AF Form 1373 (Figure 2.4.). Number the AF Forms 1373
  sequentially by the input source. Renumbering of AF Forms 1373 at the beginning of fiscal years is
  based on FSO discretion. FSO retains AF Form 1373 per Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
  Document flow within the FSO is:
     2.4.5.1. Within the FSO. Sends originated category III documents to Customer Support for pro-
     cessing.
     2.4.5.2. Processing Unit. Prepares DJMS-AC input by encoding the data into the computer.
     Transcribes transaction numbers assigned by JUMPS Data Collection (JDC), or Defense Military
     Pay Office (DMO), to source documents. Sends documents for review.
     2.4.5.3. Review:
         2.4.5.3.1. Obtains Quality Assurance Batch Print (UH099CA46) and verifies data input to the
         computer against source document. Verifies transactions against source documents. Corrects
         or deletes transactions as necessary.
         2.4.5.3.2. Returns documents found to be incomplete or incorrect to input source. Uses AF
         Form 48, Source Document Reject Control Slip, to control rejected source documents. Other
         locally developed forms may be used instead of AF Form 48, or reject card in 2.4.5.3.3. below.
         2.4.5.3.3. Prepares optional FSO document reject card concurrently with rejection of source
         documents to input source. Deletes transactions, input to DJMS-AC, that relate to the rejected
         source documents. Rejected document transactions appear, and are controlled on, the DROT.
         2.4.5.3.4. Returns source documents to processing for preparation of DJMS-AC update.
     2.4.5.4. Control Area within Customer Support.
         2.4.5.4.1. Attaches original source document to original DTL (UH099CAO3). Places docu-
         ments in same sequence as shown on the left-hand side of the DTL and holds for quarterly sub-
         mission to the Defense Federal Records Center (DFRC). Keeping documents in input source
         sequence through processing helps in aligning to the appropriate DTL.
66                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


           2.4.5.4.2. Keeps duplicate copy of source documents with the duplicate copy of the DTL. To
           avoid unnecessary reproduction, it is not necessary to make copies of source documents, that
           may be kept in other areas, solely for the purpose of filing them with the duplicate copy of the
           DTL (for example, travel vouchers). However, these documents must be available within the
           FSO for research or to help recreate the quarterly document submission package if that
           becomes necessary.
           2.4.5.4.3. Maintains Copy of Disbursement and Collection Vouchers. This fulfills both
           MAFR and DJMS documentation requirements.
           2.4.5.4.4. Maintains Copies of all DJMS Generated Reports. With the exception of the DTL
           and one-time pay authorizations, all reports may be maintained on a hard drive or floppy disk.
           Reports that require action will be printed first for the purpose of research. Information can
           later be added to the disk to show action taken. All reports, either paper or disk, are main-
           tained in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
     2.4.6. Submission of Source Documents to the DFRC.
        2.4.6.1. Submit source documents on a DFAS-DE processing month basis (original unless other-
        wise specified in other chapters) to the DFRC by the 15th of the month following the end of the
        quarter (Records Center Handbook available on FTP site for reference).
           2.4.6.1.1. Documents Supporting DTL Entries. Send source documents supporting every
           entry on the DTL for the current day's processing cycle number.
           2.4.6.1.2. Rejected and Recycled Advance Transactions.
               2.4.6.1.2.1. If a transaction recycled and rejected to the input source, use the original doc-
               ument attached to the DTL. This document must be pulled and lined-off the original DTL
               and reprocessed, if required, with a new transaction number. Delete the prior transaction
               number on the document. If original document has been submitted to DFAS-DE, use a
               copy of the FSO retained copy as the supporting document. Annotate the document with
               the new transaction number, retain original cycle and transaction number as a reference to
               the original document.
               2.4.6.1.2.2. If a transaction rejected to DFAS-DE and set up a Case Management System
               (CMS) case, do not pull the document or line it off the DTL. Instead, submit the docu-
               ment as if it had processed, annotating the DTL accordingly. Advise DFAS-JM/DE (the
               office working the CMS case) of the DTL transmission and cycle number and date.
               2.4.6.1.2.3. If a transaction cannot be input at your location (i.e., member in `V' status,
               etc.) and you request that DFAS-JM/DE do the necessary processing, include the source
               document with your next document submission to DFAS-DE, manually entering the docu-
               ment on the next DTL as if you were the input source. Include the transmission and cycle
               numbers and the date from this DTL in your request to DFAS-DE, whether ECCS or hard-
               copy correspondence. DFAS-JM/DE will not process the transaction without this informa-
               tion. Instead, they will send you a message advising that the transaction cannot be
               processed until you provide the required information.
        2.4.6.2. How to Submit. Use AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal (JUMPS) (Figure 2.5.) to
        transmit DTLs with attached supporting documents for each processing month's business to the
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          67


     DFRC. Submit AF Form 2070 (Figure 2.3.), with documents when required. (See paragraph
     1.2.)
        2.4.6.2.1. Preparation. Prepare AF Form 1209 in triplicate. Complete all heading blocks.
        Using the document data section show:
           2.4.6.2.1.1. Each cycle and transmission number. Identify transmission numbers which
           were used for mid month (MM) or end of month (EOM) payrolls.
           2.4.6.2.1.2. Total cycles must be in DTL and cycle sequence. All cycle numbers must be
           annotated on AF Form 1209 in numerical and alpha sequence. (See Figure 2.5.)
           2.4.6.2.1.3. Number of box or package containing the documents.
           2.4.6.2.1.4. Total number of transactions requiring source documents.
           2.4.6.2.1.5. Total number of boxes of packages.
           2.4.6.2.1.6. Certification at bottom of section: I certify that the above cycles were trans-
           mitted to DFAS-DE and are supported by required source documents in this shipment for
           the month of (month) (year) - DSN #.
           2.4.6.2.1.7. Annotation that AF Form 2070 is attached for applicable month's submis-
           sions.
        2.4.6.2.2. Signature. FSO, chief of Military Pay, chief of Pay Service and Control or desig-
        nated representative signs AF Form 1209.
        2.4.6.2.3. Packaging. Package DTLs with documents attached by date. Place original AF
        Form 2070 (when required) and original and copy of AF Form 1209 in package #1 of support-
        ing documents. When sending original vouchers or DJMS source documents, ensure all sup-
        porting documentation is affixed with staples. Records must be contained in file folders or
        accordion pocket folders. File folders cannot be more than 1 inch thick. Do not use shipping
        cartons that exceed 15" long, 12" wide and 10" deep (dimensions of Federal Supply Service
        item 8115-290-3379) to send documents to the DFRC. If documents do not completely fill
        this size box, use a smaller box or envelope. Show processing month and year for which sub-
        mitted, ADSN, serial number of package (for example, "1 of 3") and DJMS Supporting Docu-
        ments on each package. Keep duplicate AF Form 1209 per Air Force Records Disposition
        Schedule. Source documents must be fastened to the appropriate DTL securely enough to
        withstand handling during shipping. Paper clips or rubber bands, whichever are most practi-
        cal, should be used. Do not use staples to fasten documents.
        2.4.6.2.4. Address. National Archives-Rocky Mountain Region, Bldg 48, Denver Federal
        Records Center (DFRC), P.O. Box 25307, Denver CO 80225.
        2.4.6.2.5. Mailing. White ‘storage’ boxes are not shipping boxes. It is advisable to pursue
        shipping methods other than registered mail when using ‘storage’ boxes since sending regis-
        tered is costly and destroys the ‘storage box’. If registered mail is used, the boxes must be
        packaged so that markings, tape, labels and/or stamps do not compromise the box. The DFRC
        will not rebox files when the ‘storage box’ is compromised. All records received, that are not
        in compliance will be returned at the expense of the originating office.
68                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


            2.4.6.2.6. Corrected Documents. Use original and copy of AF Form 1209 to submit docu-
            ments that correct previously submitted source documents that have not rejected. If packaged
            in white ‘storage’ box, see mailing instructions in 2.4.6.2.5. above. Forward these submis-
            sions as generated and identify them to the original DTL for filing. Send by registered mail to
            the DFRC.
            2.4.6.2.7. Request for Source Documents. Copies of DJMS MMPA histories are available
            on-line from 1977 to current. LESs are available from October 1992 to current. Reference
            Chapter 5 and Chapter 7 of this manual for further information on access to these docu-
            ments. All other requests for hard copies of source documents and MMPA histories or LESs
            prior to above dates should be sent to DFAS-RSAB/DE via message or letter and contain the
            following:
                2.4.6.2.7.1. Member's SSN.
                2.4.6.2.7.2. Member's full name.
                2.4.6.2.7.3. Input ADSN.
                2.4.6.2.7.4. Cycle number.
                2.4.6.2.7.5. Transaction number.
                2.4.6.2.7.6. Type of input (for example, BAS start not 4001).
                2.4.6.2.7.7. Effective dates of transaction (if applicable).
                2.4.6.2.7.8. Date of DTR the cycle appears on.
                2.4.6.2.7.9. Name and DSN number of person requesting the source document. When
                inquiring about DJMS documents DFAS-RSAB/DE will need the ADSN, cycle and the
                quarter or month/year of the documents. When DJMS documents are first submitted, the
                SF 135 that is included with the documents is sent back to the unit with an accession num-
                ber, which is on the returned SF 135, will help expedite the retrieval process.
     2.4.7. Processing DD Forms 139:
        2.4.7.1. Preparation. Details are in Figure 2.6. Figure 2.8. contains an example of a completed
        DD Form 139.
        2.4.7.2. Initiating FSO Responsibilities. Details are in Figure 2.7.
        2.4.7.3. Receiving FSO Responsibilities. Details are in Table 2.1.
        2.4.7.4. Sending DD Forms 139 to DFAS-DE. Details are in Table 2.2.
     2.4.8. DD Forms 139 Relating to Excess Shipments of Household Goods and Trailers. JPPSO issues
     pay adjustment authorizations for incurring costs relating to excess shipments of household goods and
     trailers. Detailed processing instructions are in Chapter 69.
     2.4.9. Support Files, Records and Logs:
        2.4.9.1. Purpose. Servicing FSO maintains these files as references.
        2.4.9.2. Location. Pay Service and Control, under the supervisor of the chief of Military Pay,
        maintains these files in a convenient location in the military pay area. These files may be main-
        tained in any sequence that suits local needs.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           69


  2.4.10. Management Files. A management file must be established to maintain the following docu-
  mentation:
     2.4.10.1. Entitlement Re-certification. The annual and PCS/separation re-certification of entitle-
     ments.
     2.4.10.2. Indebtedness. DD Forms 139, remissions, waivers, rebuttals, bankruptcy and any other
     debt-causing transaction.
     2.4.10.3. Separation or Retirement:
     2.4.10.4. Dependency Determination or Re-determinations. (See Chapter 26 of this Volume for
     guidance.)
     2.4.10.5. Article 15 or Court-Martial:
     2.4.10.6. Discretionary Files. These may be established based on local needs.
     2.4.10.7. AWOL.
     2.4.10.8. Deserter.
     2.4.10.9. TDY.
  2.4.11. DJMS Locator:
     2.4.11.1. Purpose. Use DJMS locator to determine:
         2.4.11.1.1. Identity of a member when his or her SSN is not known.
         2.4.11.1.2. Member's current paying or servicing ADSN.
     2.4.11.2. Contents. DJMS locator file is updated monthly and is in two parts. One part contains
     a listing in SSN sequence and one part is a listing in alphabetic sequence by last name.
         2.4.11.2.1. DJMS Locator Record. Contains member's SSN, name, paying ADSN, servicing
         ADSN, grade and status.
         2.4.11.2.2. Index. Each microfiche includes an index at the lower right side of the microfiche.
         Index shows page and index key. Page reference shows frame number and index key shows
         name of first member on each frame.
  2.4.12. Other Files. These files are official forms, voucher, voucher copies, listings, microfiche
  records and copies of input documentation.
     2.4.12.1. Documents Submitted to the DFRC. Attach original source documents requiring sub-
     mission to the DFRC to original copy of DTL and maintain in a suspense file for quarterly submis-
     sion to the DFRC. Retain duplicate copy of source document as prescribed in paragraph 2.4.2.4.
     2.4.12.2. Original Documents Not Submitted to DFAS-DE. Do not send source documents to
     DFAS-DE which do not support MMPA transactions. (For example, change of address on JLES).
     File these documents with the retained copy of the DTL.
     2.4.12.3. Daily Transaction Record (DTR). File DTR (after review and action by Quality Exam-
     ination) in Pay Service and Control.
     2.4.12.4. Intra-Office Documents. File these documents in Quality Examination. Destroy after
     each day's business has been balanced.
70                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        2.4.12.5. Computer Generated Listings. Consist of all computer products. Maintained as speci-
        fied in Air Force Records Disposition Schedule or as specified in other chapters in this manual.

2.5. Analyzing the MMPA. In order to research an inquiry or pay problem, the MMPA must be ana-
lyzed, using all available information, both internal and external. A proper analysis of the MMPA
requires the DJMS data elements and codes book, the member's MMPA printout, applicable DTRs, and
applicable LES history. The pay-determining factors from the MMPA which must be considered are:
     2.5.1. MMPA processing date.
     2.5.2. Mid-month cutoff date.
     2.5.3. Individual closure process codes (see Attachment 12) for all pay items that have been closed
     in the current processing month. Account for all items posted in payment and pay computation and
     collection areas of the account, open and closed entries, for the current processing month.
     2.5.4. Other factors which are needed include:
        2.5.4.1. Member's grade.
        2.5.4.2. Member's pay option.
        2.5.4.3. Member's status.
        2.5.4.4. Number of FITW exemptions
        2.5.4.5. FITW election (marital status).
        2.5.4.6. Open-status entry - number.
        2.5.4.7. Member's conversion date.
        2.5.4.8. Time frame for which the pay computation is required.
        2.5.4.9. Member's date of separation.

2.6. MMPA Format. The MMPA is organized by category of entry. All entries are identified by a FOR-
MAT ID which is made up of two digits; the first digit identifies the category (A--allotments, B--leave,
numeric--entitlements, etc.); the second digit identifies the entry (AB--bond allotment, BR--leave bal-
ance, 01 basic pay). See Attachment 18 for a complete list of FORMAT IDs and categories. Entries can
be classified as fixed, open, current month, closed, and history. In addition, the MMPA has future and
suspense entries, LES remarks, and cross-references. The groups and categories of data in the MMPA are
discussed below.
     2.6.1. Data Item. This is the smallest identifiable piece of information in the MMPA. On an MMPA
     printout or terminal screen, this shows up as a data name followed by code, date, amount, etc. Exam-
     ple, SEX M, START 840703, ENTLMT-MM 432.28.
     2.6.2. Entry. MMPA entries are identified by FORMAT ID and contain one or more data item(s). An
     entry contains enough data to allow the computer to perform some specific operation(s), allow an
     individual to read the MMPA and determine why the computer acted as it did, and what it will do if
     new data is added. Entries can be described as follows:
        2.6.2.1. Fixed. These entries are present in all MMPAs whether they contain data or not. Thus a
        printout may show entries with all zeros or data name(s) followed by a blank. The fixed area was
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            71


     designed to facilitate data processing. An entry open data field will identify when an entry was
     created or when the latest change to a MMPA entry occurred.
     2.6.2.2. Open Entries. These are entries that are currently in effect. They usually contain a start
     or effective date, code to identify information and entitlement or deduction amount field(s) if a
     monetary entry. An entry open data field will identify when an entry was created or when the lat-
     est change to an MMPA entry occurred.
     2.6.2.3. Current Month Closed and History Entries. These entries have an entry closed data field
     to identify the processing date, update number, processing month and mid month/end of month
     flag for the transaction that caused the entry to close and usually a stop date to show the last day
     this entry was in effect. History entries differ from current month closed entries only by money
     amounts. The current month closed entries with amount fields affect pay for the current month;
     thus, they contain the same amount fields as open entries. Month-end processing removes the
     amount fields from the current month-closed entries. Most history entries are deleted from the
     MMPA after 12 months by month-end processing, based on the entry closed data fields.
     2.6.2.4. Future and Suspense Entries. These entries appear at the end of a printout. They have the
     same FORMAT ID(s) as the entries to which they pertain. Future entries are used to establish a
     suspense for the computer to generate transactions to update the MMPA. Suspense entries, on the
     other hand, generate transactions that reject or management notices to notify people of manual
     actions that are required. The codes in these entries determine the action taken and the effective
     date the action will be taken.
  2.6.3. LES Remarks: The LES remarks group appears on an MMPA print after the suspense entries.
  LES remarks are generated whenever an action processes which changes the MMPA. These remarks
  identify what the action was and when it processed. These LES remarks on the MMPA are used to
  produce the remarks that are printed on the LES itself at the end of the month and are deleted from the
  MMPA by month-end restructure. The remark entry consists of 13 characters of data, usually con-
  structed as follows: An LES remarks action code, an LES remarks format code, an effective date and
  the Julian date on which the transaction processed. The LES remarks conserve computer storage by
  identifying a meaningful phrase in a computer lookup table. When the LES remark requires more
  than 13 characters, a second entry is created. It contains an LES remarks action code of 99, the same
  LES remarks format code as the first entry and up to nine characters of variable data.
  2.6.4. Cross-Reference. The cross-references are the last group printed on an MMPA print. When a
  transaction processes with an effective date before current month, a cross-reference is made to each
  month of history that is adjusted. There may or may not be data in the cross-reference group. Each
  cross-reference contains the year and month of the retroactive transaction corrected and month in
  which the transaction processed. A separate entry is made for each month affected by processing of a
  retroactive transaction. During month-end restructure, all cross-references that pertain to a period
  before immediate access storage (IAS) history are written to tape and the comparable entry is deleted
  from the MMPA.

2.7. AUTODIN:
  2.7.1. Use of AUTODIN. AUTODIN is used to transmit data between DFAS-DE and the personnel
  community or JPPSO. Transactions processed through these base-level systems are transmitted to
72                                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     DFAS-DE via AUTODIN and DFAS-DE acknowledges receipt of these transmissions via an XT03
     (AUTODIN Acknowledgment Message), which appears as:



0XT03 (19sp)       931125 (1sp)       076     (31sp)    1201     (2sp)     MH     (2sp) XTU4
                    |                 |                  |                 |_Input     |
                                                                           Source
                    |_Processing      |_Transaction      |_Update                      |_Transmission
                                                                           (ADSN
                    Date              Count                                            Number
                                                                           or MPF)


     2.7.2. DJMS AUTODIN Message Log List + PGM. This is a separate log accessed via CICSJ3
     (JAUO). This log is made available daily. To obtain missing transmissions of incoming AUTODIN,
     the MPF advises base communications to request a re-transmission.
     2.7.3. Management Notices. Refer to Attachment 22 for all management notices.

2.8. DTR:
     2.8.1. Frequency. DFAS-DE produces DTRs once a day (with certain exceptions noted below) to
     include all transactions processed in the preceding 24 hours. For any FSO, a DTR includes all trans-
     actions in one or more transmission by the FSO or MPF, but not necessarily all transmissions by the
     base on a single day. For example, DTR for 10 August (processing date) may include second trans-
     mission made by FSO on 9 August, the first transmission made by the MPF on 10 August, and the first
     transmission made by the FSO on 10 August. It may include transactions transmitted earlier and
     being processed again. Exceptions:
        2.8.1.1. No input. If there were no transactions in any of the eight sections listed in paragraph
        2.8.3. below for any member serviced by the FSO, no DTR is sent to that FSO.
        2.8.1.2. Month-End Restructure. No transactions are processed and no DTRs are produced.
     2.8.2. Receipt and Control. QE technicians receive a copy of the DTR and control action items to
     ensure that all required processing is completed.
     2.8.3. Sections, Content and Sequence. The DTR contains eight sections, with category I (MPF) and
     category III (FSO) transactions usually segregated.
        2.8.3.1. Sections:
            2.8.3.1.1. Section 1 - Uncleared rejects.
            2.8.3.1.2. Section 2 - Uncleared suspense items.
            2.8.3.1.3. Section 3 - Rejected transactions.
            2.8.3.1.4. Section 4 - Processed transactions.
            2.8.3.1.5. Section 5 - Partially processed transactions.
            2.8.3.1.6. Section 6 - Processed transactions originated by others.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            73


         2.8.3.1.7. Section 7 - Advance transactions.
         2.8.3.1.8. Section 8 - Recycled transactions.
         2.8.3.1.9. Transactions in SSN sequence.
     2.8.3.2. Content. The first entry for each transaction in all sections identifies transaction and/or
     member affected. This entry usually includes trailer card indicator, SSN, name (first five of last
     name), format ID, action indicator and variable data. It also includes transaction control identifi-
     cation which consists of source of input, transmission number and transaction number (sequence).
     Where appropriate, the first entry for each transaction is followed by other information on as many
     lines as needed.
     2.8.3.3. Sequence. Entries within each section are normally in SSN sequence within transmission
     number within FSO/MPF identifier.
  2.8.4. Section 1 - Uncleared Rejects:
     2.8.4.1. Content. This is a record of error card (ERR-CARD) images created for transactions
     which previously failed edits at DFAS-DE and were returned to the base for correction but have
     not been corrected. Transactions to which error cards apply do not appear. Contents of
     ERR-RECORD are data described in paragraph 2.8.3.2. above, with error codes in the variable
     data areas. Also, this section contains date original transaction was rejected (P-DATE) and next
     follow-up date (F-DATE). If the original transaction was input by an MPF, notice appears on the
     servicing FSO DTR, except if there was an error in identifying data making it impossible to access
     the MMPA, or, if member is in a PCS status and an arrival transaction has not been received from
     the gaining station, entry appears only on MPF DTR. In all other cases, notice appears on the
     input source or DFAS-DE DTR only, depending on which activity received the original rejected
     transaction for correction.
     2.8.4.2. Follow-up. An uncleared reject appears on the DTR of the input source FSO/MPF one
     time. A manual control of rejects must be established to control uncleared rejects.
     2.8.4.3. Action. For each item in this section, QE determines why the DFAS-DE suspenses have
     not been cleared and what control actions are needed to clear reject suspenses. This usually
     involves correction and re-submission or cancellation of transaction and return of ERR-RECORD
     to DFAS-DE which clears DFAS-DE reject suspense.
  2.8.5. Section 2 - Uncleared Suspense Items:
     2.8.5.1. Content. This section contains miscellaneous suspense notices requiring FSO action or
     submission of transactions before actions can be completed by the central site. If DFAS-DE does
     not receive required information or transactions, follow-up notice appears in this section. Exam-
     ples of suspense transactions are:
         2.8.5.1.1. Date DFAS-DE must receive PCS arrival message;
         2.8.5.1.2. Differences between DFAS-DE MMPA files and AFPC files detected on conversion
         and on comparison of accession, separation and change-of-grade transactions;
         2.8.5.1.3. Unsettled accounts receivable - debt has been established, but repayment schedule
         has not been received;
         2.8.5.1.4. Difference between payments authorized and payments made.
74                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        2.8.5.2. Follow-up. Suspense items appear on servicing FSO DTR as required information
        becomes needed or before that date. If required information or transaction is not received, fol-
        low-up appears in this section. Depending on type and nature of suspense, follow-up may be at
        7-day intervals, entitlement held in abeyance may be stopped or DFAS-DE may contact the base
        to find out why action has not been taken.
        2.8.5.3. Action. QE determines action required for each item and controls action to completion.
        This usually involves preparation and submission, to DFAS-DE, of a transaction or a document
        called for by the suspense notice. Technicians request MPFs prepare and submit documents when
        source of input is MPF.
     2.8.6. Section 3 - Rejected Transactions:
        2.8.6.1. Content. This section contains transactions from current central processing which could
        not be recorded because of error or incompatibility in MMPA. It also includes critical transactions
        with invalid or missing non-critical data which have been recorded in part in the MMPA (for
        example, a casual payment for which the voucher number is missing). Error code explains which
        part of the transaction requires correction. When data in MMPA is inconsistent with data in trans-
        action, this section also contains extracts of data in the MMPA.
        2.8.6.2. Format. For each rejected transaction, the ERR-RECORD image appears first. It con-
        tains all identifying data, error codes explaining why transaction was rejected, and data extracted
        from MMPA showing difference between MMPA and transaction. Trailer record indicator field
        shows Z for totally rejected transactions and Y for those transactions recorded in part.
        ERR-RECORD image is followed by contents of transaction card(s). For multiple-record transac-
        tions, data common to all records (record positions 2-19 and 68-80) appear only once, followed by
        variable data from each record in sequence. Each record is identified by applicable trailer record
        indicator. Extracts of MMPA data, for transactions rejected because of inconsistency, follow the
        variable data.
        2.8.6.3. Location. Rejected and partially rejected FSO transactions appear on the DTR of the
        originating FSO. Rejected or partially rejected MPF transactions appear on the DTR of the servic-
        ing FSO. If an MPF transaction contains errors in identifying data, making it impossible to access
        the MMPA and obtain the servicing ADSN, the reject appears only on the MPF abbreviated DTR.
        2.8.6.4. Rejects to DFAS-DE. Certain transactions are programmed to reject to DFAS-DE for
        manual intervention (i.e., entitlements retroactive to a period outside IAS). Such transactions are
        not rejected to the base. They appear in this section of the DTR with an error code which indicates
        that no action is required by input source.
     2.8.7. Section 4 - Processed Transactions:
        2.8.7.1. Content. This section contains FSO transactions which passed all edits or which could be
        made valid by computer-supplied codes and were used to update MMPAs. It includes transactions
        from current transmission, matured advance transactions received in prior months and transac-
        tions that were awaiting the receipt of additional data. Most advance transactions from prior
        months which are effective in current month are processed in the first current month update and
        appear on the first DTR for the month. Recycled transactions appear until transactions that must
        precede them have been received and processed, thus permitting recycled transactions to process.
        If the missing transactions have not been received after the prescribed recycle period, the recycled
        transactions are rejected to the originator or the operating directorate. Normally only transactions
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             75


     input by the servicing FSO are included, but when MPF input transactions are processed with sup-
     plied codes (see (3) below) they also appear in this section.
     2.8.7.2. Format. First entry contains the contents of the first record of the transaction as submit-
     ted, except when computer-supplied codes have been substituted or inserted as described in
     2.8.7.3. below. If a multiple-record transaction is processed without supplied codes, only the first
     record is printed to identify the transaction.
     2.8.7.3. Supplied Codes. If certain data is missing or invalid in essential transactions such as
     accessions, DJMS supplies a valid code to enable an account to be established or updated. For
     example, if in an accession transaction, the member's sex code is missing or invalid, the code for
     male is supplied. An ERR-RECORD image is printed as first entry for transaction with an error
     code identifying the supplied code. This is followed by the first record of the transaction, and if
     the supplied code applies to other than first record of a multiple-record transaction, the changed
     content of the record in which the code was supplied. For example, missing data is supplied in the
     third record of a four-record transaction. ERR-RECORD image, and first and third record images,
     are printed.
     2.8.7.4. Action. QE reviews transactions in this section with specific attention to those showing
     supplied codes. In some cases, supplied codes will have been substituted to conform to legal
     requirements (for example, number of years service for severance pay reduced to conform to max-
     imum upon which computation may be made). Where this occurs, no further correction is neces-
     sary or permitted. In other instances, if the supplied code is not correct, QE prepares a new
     transaction immediately to correct the erroneous data. Method of correction is the same as pre-
     scribed in each of the applicable sections, parts three through seven, except that no
     ERR-RECORD is returned. Other transactions in this section are spot-checked to ensure they pro-
     cessed as intended.
  2.8.8. Section 5 - Partially Processed Transactions:
     2.8.8.1. Content. This section lists transactions which failed edits of non-critical data and were
     recorded in part on MMPAs and also were rejected as described in subparagraph 2.8.6. above.
     They are shown in the same manner as transactions in section 4. When required correction is
     received and processed, the correction transaction is shown in section 6. Reject entry and pro-
     cessed portion appear on the servicing FSO DTR.
     2.8.8.2. Action. Items in this section are primarily for information purposes. QE makes sure that
     corrective action is taken. Section 3 of the DTR reflects rejected transactions.
  2.8.9. Section 6 - Processed Transaction Originated by Others:
     2.8.9.1. Content. This section lists transactions, applicable to members serviced by the FSO, that
     were input by other than that FSO. It includes fully processed MPF transactions, transactions such
     as accessions and promotions input by AFPC, address changes from allottees, approved claims
     adjudicated by DFAS-DE, casual payments by other FSOs, and transactions generated by DJMS.
     It also includes transactions which were originally generated by the FSO or the MPF which were
     rejected to DFAS-DE for manual intervention, and then reintroduced in modified format for pro-
     cessing. It includes matured advance transactions received in prior month from other than the ser-
     vicing FSO and processed recycle transactions which were input by other than the servicing FSO.
     It does not include partially processed transactions, regardless of source. Transactions in this sec-
     tion may include computer-supplied codes as described in subparagraph 2.8.7.3. above. Transac-
76                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        tions are shown in the same manner as those in section 4. Transactions are shown in SSN
        sequence regardless of input source. MPF transactions are commingled.
        2.8.9.2. Action. This section informs the FSO of actions taken by other activities affecting mem-
        bers' services and is used to respond to member inquiries. However, QE analyzes any supplied
        code transactions to determine if correction transactions are needed and to control the required
        corrections.
     2.8.10. Section 7 - Advance Transactions:
        2.8.10.1. Content. This section shows transactions which passed edit or could be validated, but
        which did not update MMPAs because they had a future month effective date or, in the case of
        allotment stops, a current month effective date. Allotment is stopped after current month payment
        is made at month end. Unless computer-supplied codes have been applied as described in sub-
        paragraph 2.8.7.3. above, only content of the first record of the transaction is printed. If a supplied
        code has been applied, ERR-RECORD image appears as the first entry, followed by the first
        record of the transaction. Contents of other records from the transaction are not printed, whether
        or not supplied codes are applied. Correction, if necessary, to supplied codes cannot be made until
        the transaction has been processed and appears in section 4 or 6, as appropriate. Advance transac-
        tions are not partially processed. If they contain erroneous data which cannot be validated or data
        is missing, they are rejected; these rejects must be corrected and entirely resubmitted by the input
        source.
        2.8.10.2. Action. Transactions in this section are shown for information only.
     2.8.11. Section 8 - Recycled Transactions:
        2.8.11.1. Content. This section shows selected transactions which passed inter/intra-record edits
        and validations but failed consistency edits because of being processed out of sequence. After a
        transaction passes inter/ intra-record edits and validation but fails to pass consistency edits
        because of timing sequence, it is recycled against the MMPA. DJMS programs determine whether
        additional data is required from the input source of the transaction or from a prior FSO, and assign
        a recycle code 1 (input is required from prior FSO) or 2 (input is required from input source).
        Recycled transactions appear on the servicing FSO DTR except when a member is in a PCS status
        and an arrival transaction has not been received from the gaining station, they appear on the MPF
        DTR. For code 1 transactions, DFAS-DE contacts the prior FSO to obtain departure message.
        DTR shows whether additional input is required from the prior FSO or input source. These trans-
        actions are rejected if required transactions are not received.
        2.8.11.2. Action:
            2.8.11.2.1. Transactions Required from Input Source. If the transaction is one for which prior
            transaction is expected from the input source of recycled transaction (code 2), QE determines
            if required transaction was previously sent and rejected, or was never sent. If it was never sent,
            or was sent and rejected but never resubmitted, the transaction is sent immediately. If it has
            been submitted or has been resubmitted after being rejected, no action is required.
            2.8.11.2.2. Transaction Required from Prior FSO. If recycled transaction is one for which the
            transaction must be submitted by a prior FSO, no action is required.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          77


  2.8.12. Transactions in SSN Sequence. This section lists all transactions shown in Sections 1 through
  8 in SSN sequence. It lists the section of the DTR where the transaction was included and the action
  taken during update processing.
  2.8.13. Disposition. After all action items on the DTR have been completed, QE sends the DTR to
  Pay Service and Control for filing and to be available for research and use in responding to member
  inquiries.
78                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 2.1. Basic Instructions For Preparing Dd Form 114, Military Pay Order

ITEM                                         ENTRY

Document Reference                           The next number in sequence from the appropriate series. (On
                                             blanket MPO, enter a document reference number opposite each
                                             member's name. A copy of the document for each member is not
                                             required).

Organization and Station                     The unit identification code, organization preparing MPO, base
                                             or location, and unit mailing address unless the location is
                                             classified. GSUs that prepare their own MPOs use their unit
                                             identification code and designation.

Date                                         Date MPO is prepared.

Social Security Number                       Member's SSN spaced to read as: XXX XX XXXX. List
                                             individuals in ascending SSN sequence on blanket MPO.

Last Name-First Name- Middle Initial         In capital letters, member's last name, first name, middle initial,
                                             and Jr., Sr., etc., if appropriate. On the same line, near right
                                             margin of item, enter individual's pay grade (31, 36, 03, etc.).

Reason for Change                            Why the change is necessary.

Year                                         Year in which action is effective.

From                                         Date action began or was effective (also enter hour for
                                             hospitalization, etc.). If action is termination of authorization
                                             established by a prior MPO, enter PO (prior orders).

To                                           Date action was effective or ends (also enter hour for
                                             hospitalization, etc.). If action is beginning of entitlement and
                                             termination date is unknown, enter FO (further orders).

Symbol Number                                ADSN of servicing FSO.

Signature of Member                          In the rare instance that form is used in lieu of prescribed form for
                                             individual members, the same signature requirements must be
                                             met.
Typed Name and Grade of Certifying Officer   Name, grade, and branch of service of certifying officer.

Signature of Certifying Officer              Signature must be same as that recorded on Certifying Officials
                                             Roster (Figure 1.2.).

Last Item ?                                  After entering the last SSN/name, make a line across or across
                                             and down the form (Z shaped) and include the words "Last Item"
                                             to ensure no other information is added after certified.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                79


Figure 2.2. FSO Source Input Table.

                                       FSO SOURCE INPUT TABLE
     INPUT SOURCE             CODE         INPUT SOURCE             CODE      INPUT SOURCE          CODE
Financial Services Officer    AA     Military Pay Section, Chief     AZ    Document Review &         BY
                                                                           Coding
Financial Services Officer     AB    Pay Service & Control, Chief    BA    Special Actions           BZ
Financial Services Officer     AC    Document Preparation &          BB    Special Actions           CA
                                     Control
Financial Services Officer     AD    Document Preparation &          BC    Special Actions           CB
                                     Control
Financial Services Officer     AE    Document Preparation &          BD    Special Actions           CC
                                     Control
Financial Services Officer     AF    Document Preparation &          BE    Special Actions           CD
                                     Control
Pay and Travel, Chief          AG    Document Preparation &          BF    Disbursement &            CE
                                     Control                               Collection Control
Pay and Travel, Chief          AH    File Maintenance                BG    Disbursement &            CF
                                                                           Collection Control
Pay and Travel, Chief          AI    File Maintenance                BH    Disbursement &            CG
                                                                           Collection Control
Pay and Travel, Chief          AJ    File Maintenance                BI    Disbursement &            CH
                                                                           Collection Control
Travel Section, Chief          AK    File Maintenance                BJ    Disbursement &            CI
                                                                           Collection Control
Travel Section, Chief          AL    File Maintenance                BK    Quality Examination,      CJ
                                                                           Chief
Travel Section, Chief         AM     Transfer & Shipping             BL    Operations Analysis       CK
Travel Section, Chief          AN    Transfer & Shipping            BM     Operations Analysis       CL
Travel Section, Chief          AO    Transfer & Shipping             BN    Operations Analysis      CM
Travel Section, Chief          AP    Transfer & Shipping             BO    Operations Analysis       CN
Military Pay Section, Chief    AR    Transfer & Shipping             BP    Operations Analysis       CO
Military Pay Section, Chief    AS    Processing, Chief               BR    Audit & Update Control    CP
Military Pay Section, Chief    AT    Document Review & Coding        BS    Audit & Update Control    CR
Military Pay Section, Chief   AW     Document Review & Coding        BT    Audit & Update Control    CS
Military Pay Section, Chief   AX     Document Review & Coding       BW     Audit & Update Control    CT
Military Pay Section, Chief    AY    Document Review & Coding        BX    Audit & Update Control   CW
Audit & Update Control         CX    Traffic Management Office       EG    Office of Special         FE
                                     (TMO)                                 Investigations
Audit & Update Control         CY    Traffic Management Office       EH    AF Audit Agency           FF
                                     (TMO)                                 (Auditor General)
Audit & Update Control         CZ    Traffic Management Office       EI    AF Audit Agency           FG
                                     (TMO)                                 (Auditor General)
80                                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                        FSO SOURCE INPUT TABLE
     INPUT SOURCE              CODE          INPUT SOURCE                CODE      INPUT SOURCE           CODE
Postal & Courier Services       DA    Traffic Management Office           EJ    AF Audit Agency            FH
                                      (TMO)                                     (Auditor General)
Postal & Courier Services       DB    Traffic Management Office           EK    AFROTC                     FI
                                      (TMO)
Postal & Courier Services       DC    Traffic Management Office           EL    AFROTC                     FJ
                                      (TMO)
Recruiting Services, Det        DD    Traffic Management Office          EM     AFROTC                     FK
                                      (TMO)
Recruiting Services, Det        DE    Flight Records Section              EN    AFROTC                     FL
Recruiting Services, Det        DF    Flight Records Section              EO    AFROTC                     FM
Judge Advocate                 DG     Flight Records Section              EP    AFROTC                     FN
Judge Advocate                 DH     Flight Records Section              ER    Accounts Receivable        GA
Judge Advocate                  DI    Civil Engineering Office            ES    Accounts Receivable        GB
Judge Advocate                  DJ    Civil Engineering Office            ET    Reserved for Management    TZ
                                                                                Notices
Judge Advocate                  DK    Civil Engineering Office           EW     Reserved for Management    UA
                                                                                Notices
Judge Advocate                  DZ    Civil Engineering Office            EX    Reserved for Management    UB
                                                                                Notices
Registrar, Medical Treatment    EA    AFIT                                EY    Reserved for Management    UC
Facility                                                                        Notices
Registrar, Medical Treatment    EB    AFIT                                EZ    Reserved for Management    UD
Facility                                                                        Notices
Registrar, Medical Treatment    EC    AFIT                                FA    Reserved for Management    UE
Facility                                                                        Notices
Registrar, Medical Treatment    ED    Office of Special Investigations    FB    Reserved for Management    UF
Facility                                                                        Notices
Traffic Management Office       EE    Office of Special Investigations    FC    Reserved for Management    UG
(TMO)                                                                           Notices
Traffic Management Office       EF    Office of Special Investigations    FD    Reserved for Management    UH
(TMO)                                                                           Notices
Reserved for Management         UI    Reserved for Management             XE    Reserved for Management    YA
Notices                               Notices                                   Notices
Reserved for Management         UJ    Reserved for Management             XF    Reserved for Management    ZP
Notices                               Notices                                   Notices
Reserved for Management        UK     Reserved for Management             XG    DFAS Recycles              ZR
Notices                               Notices
Reserved for Management         UL    Reserved for Management             XH    DFAS Recycles              ZS
Notices                               Notices
Reserved for Management        UM     Reserved for Management             XI    Table Changes              ZT
Notices                               Notices
Reserved for Management        UN     Reserved for Management             XJ    Table Changes             ZW
Notices                               Notices
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  81


                                   FSO SOURCE INPUT TABLE
     INPUT SOURCE         CODE        INPUT SOURCE         CODE      INPUT SOURCE     CODE
Reserved for Management   UO     Reserved for Management    XK    GA03 Transactions    ZX
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management    UP    Reserved for Management    XL    GA03 Transactions    ZY
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management    UR    Reserved for Management    XM    DFAS (By-Others      ZZ
Notices                          Notices                          Transactions)
Reserved for Management    US    Reserved for Management    XN
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management    UT    Reserved for Management    XO
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management   UW     Reserved for Management    XP
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management   UX     Reserved for Management    XR
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management   UY     Reserved for Management    XS
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management    UZ    Reserved for Management    XT
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management   XA     Reserved for Management    XW
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management    XB    Reserved for Management    XX
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management    XC    Reserved for Management    XY
Notices                          Notices
Reserved for Management   XD     Reserved for Management    XZ
Notices                          Notices
82                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 2.3. AF Form 2070, JUMPS Pay Accessibility Roster.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          83


Figure 2.4. AF Form 1373, MPO Document Control Log - Transmittal.
84                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 2.5. AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               85


Figure 2.6. Preparation of DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization.


              PREPARATION OF DD FORM 139, PAY ADJUSTMENT AUTHORIZATION
                ITEM                                              ENTER
Member                       Last name, first name, middle initial
SSN                          Member's SSN
Grad/Rank/Rate               Alpha grade/rank such as Sgt, Lt, etc.
Branch of Service            Member's Branch of Service
Date                         Current date.
Pay Grade No.                Numeric grade/rank (e.g., 34, 01).
Last Pay Record Examined     Leave blank.
Amount                       Net amount of charge or credit, if applicable.
Appropriation Data           Accounting classification, if adjustment to other than normal P510/530
                             accounts (i.e., travel, transportation, housing). When this block is too small
                             for the accounting classification, annotate with the words SEE BELOW and
                             put the classification in the explanation and/or reason for adjustment block.
From                         Address of originating office.
Name of Accountable DO       Name of DAO, Deputy, FSO, Accounting and Disbursing Agent, or deputy,
                             originating document.
Symbol No.                   ADSN or locator identification station number of originator.
To                           Address of the FSO servicing member.
Charge/Credit                X in proper block.
Explanation                  Description and period of the charge or credit. The amount of all charges or
                             credits must equal the amount in the column headed Amount. State remarks
                             clearly. If the 139 is for travel, the Travel Order number, voucher number,
                             and payment date are required.
Certifying Officer           Name and grade of certifying officer. The DD Form 139 must be signed by
                             the certifying officer whose name appears on it.
From                         Address of FSO making adjustment.
To                           Address of originating FSO.
Typed Name & Grade of DO     Strike out DO unless DAO/FSO's signature is obtained. Otherwise enter
                             typed name and grade of person authorized to make the adjustment.
Date                         Current date.
Signature                    Signature of person designated to make adjustment.
Last Item?                   After entering the last SSN/name, make a line across or across and down the
                             form (Z shaped) and include the words "Last Item" to ensure no other
                             information is added after certified.
86                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 2.7. Initiating FSO Responsibilities.
                      INITIATING FSO RESPONSIBILITIES--DD FORMS 139
                                   (TO OTHER THAN DFAS-DE)


       Action                              Explanation


1.     Preparation                         Prepare original and four copies.


2.     Transmission                        Send the original and two copies with supporting
                                           documentation to the FSO who is maintaining the
                                           account. Keep two copies for suspense file. Use
                                           extra copy for tracer action, if necessary.


3.     Maintaining Suspense File           Maintain the file in any manner that
                                           facilitates the follow-up of all suspenses.


4.     Verification                        Check MMPA to verify posting of adjustment.


5.     First Follow-Up Action (at end of   For initial follow-up, send copy of retained DD
       45-day suspense—60 days to and      Form 139 and letter requesting status of action to
       from overseas bases)                receiving FSO. Keep DD Form 139 in a 45/60 day
                                           suspense file.


6.     Second Follow-Up Action (at end     If adjustment is not made within 75-90 days, send a
       of 75/90 day suspense)              message to the receiving FSO requesting status of
                                           action. Inform your MAJCOM as well as the
                                           recipient’s MAJCOM.


7.     Disposition                         When adjustment has been made, annotate the
                                           suspensed copy and maintain per Air Force Records
                                           Disposition Schedule.

NOTE: For DD Forms 139 to DFAS-DE, see Table 2.2., note 2.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                               87


Figure 2.8. DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization.
88                                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 2.1. Receiving FSO Responsibilities – DD Form 139.
                   A                    B                   C                                     D


R
U
L
E        If DD Form 139 is       And                and                 then FSO
     1 received from another     account is         adjustment has    annotates all copies to show ADSN, date, typed
       FSO or DFAS               maintained         been made through name, and grade FSO making adjustment. FSO or
                                                    the DJMS          designee signs the DD Form 139 and:
                                                                        a: sends the original to the Denver Federal Records
                                                                        Center (DFRC) per paragraph 3-8;
                                                                        b: keeps one copy which is maintained per Air
                                                                        Force Records Disposition Schedule.
     2                                              adjustment has      suspends the form; notifies the originator why action
                                                    been delayed        cannot be completed by the suspense date and gives
                                                                        the expected date of completion.
     3                                              adjustment is not   endorses the form, explains why the adjustment was
                                                    made                not made, and returns all copies to the originator.
     4                           member has                             annotates form to show member’s reporting date or
                                 been transferred                       effective date of change of strength accountability
                                                                        (EDCSA) date; sends the form to member’s new
                                                                        station; notifies originator about transfer.
     5 received from FSO or      member has       adjustment pertains   annotates forms to show separation date; sends
       DFAS-DE                   been released or to entitlements,      remaining copies to DFAS-POD/DE. POD
                                 separated        deductions and        acknowledges receipt of DD Form 139, but does not
                                                  collections           furnish final action copy. Do not initiate tracer
                                                                        actions.
     6                           no record of       adjustment is not   takes locator action; sends form to member’s new
                                 member             made                duty station; notifies originator about transfer.
     7 received from Air Force   account is         adjustment is made completes action stated under rule 1.
       TMOs                      maintained         through DJMS
     8                           no record of       adjustment is not   takes locator action; sends form to member’s new
                                 member             made                station; notifies originator about transfer.
     9 received from             account is         adjustment pertains takes initial actions, such as notifying member of
       JPPSO-SAT/ECAF            maintained         to excess charges pending indebtedness and follows instruction in
       transportation officer                       for HHG or trailer Chapter 53.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                               89


Table 2.2. Forwarding DD Forms 139 to DFAS.
                A                       B                          C                              D


 R       If transaction
 U       concerns
 L                                                          then send DD
 E                        and                               Form 139 to    And
     1 BAQ                a retroactive adjustment is    DFAS-DE/FJPD      includes DD Form 139 period start and stop
                          required for a period in which                   dates.
                          the member's status (officer/
                          enlisted) was different from
                          current status
     2 courts-martial,    debt entry (DF) is closed                        if errors had occurred in the original
       fines, and         because full collection was                      transaction, state this on the document; attach
       forfeitures        made and an E706, or E806                        copies of documents suspending or setting
                          transaction is required and the                  aside the original monetary punishment.
                          DF entry is no longer on the
                          MMPA
     3                    pay adjustment is for member                     list on the DD Form 139 the facts concerning
                          under total forfeiture                           the adjustment.
     4 HOUS/COLA          adjustment involves rates         DFAS-DE/FJPD   include on DD Form 139 narrative stating
                          before existing table                            inclusive dates for which adjustment is required
                                                                           and identification of JTR involved.
     5                    adjustment involves
                          payroll(s) while member is
                          serviced by a base in the
                          CONUS
     6                    adjustment involves HOUS/                        state on DD Form 139 inclusive dates for which
                          COLA proration and is for                        adjustment is required.
                          period of entitlement after
                          member departs old duty
                          station and dependents must
                          remain in overseas area
     7 separation/       permission has been obtained DFAS-DE/FJPS         show on DD Form 139 transmission number,
       reenlistments     from MPOs by message or                           transaction FORMAT-ID, date of submission,
       (for indebtedness telephone, ext. 7331/7332                         error code, detail breakout of entitlements and
       discovered after                                                    deductions used to arrive at payment amount,
       separation, see                                                     basic reenlistment/separation data such as
       notes 1 and 3)                                                      DOS, SPD, TOE, RRB/SRB, and accrued
                                                                           leave. Include name of MPS individual
                                                                           contacted and date.


NOTES:
     1. DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, adjustments received by DFAS-DE which
        could have been handled by proper base-level input will be returned to the originator through
        the appropriate MAJCOM.
90                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     2. DFAS-DE/FJP will acknowledge receipt of a DD Form 139 via an XX03 management notice
        indicating a case has been opened. If an XX03 is not received within 20 days of the prepara-
        tion date of the DD Form 139, a status should be requested from DFAS-DE/FJP. Another
        XX03 will be sent out when the case is closed. If this is not received within 30 days of the ini-
        tial XX03, a status should be requested from DFAS-DE/FJP.
     3. If debts are discovered while member’s MMPA is in a V status, process the debt through the
        base level system. If debts are discovered after member’s MMPA has been dropped from the
        files, send DD Form 139 with pertinent documents immediately to DFAS-DE/FY.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              91


                                               Chapter 3

                                 JUMPS DATA COLLECTION
                               AND SECURITY ACCESS TO DJMS

Section 3A—General Information.

3.1. Description. The JUMPS Data Collections (JDC) subsystem has two specially designed applica-
tions to input DJMS-AC transactions into daily updates. They are the JDC Key to Disk Program
(JDC-III) which is a personal computer application and the JUMPS On-line Processing System (JOPS) or
JDC II. Both of these applications are supported by microcomputers consisting of a central processing
unit (CPU), monitor, keyboard and printer. This equipment is located at base-level financial services
offices.
   3.1.1. JDC III is used to key DJMS-AC transactions for later file transfer to the central computer
   located at DFAS-DE. Transactions are edited as they are keyed in and stored on either a floppy disk
   or hard drive until they are transmitted to DFAS-DE. Each FSO has the capability to transmit another
   FSO's transactions or receive another FSO's output products. When communications are down for an
   extended time, an FSO will create transactions on a floppy diskette and send the floppy diskette to a
   nearby location (either an FSO or agent with connectivity). That location will file transfer the trans-
   actions to DFAS-DE for inclusion in the DJMS-AC update. Upon completion of the DJMS-AC
   update that location can request the output results for the FSO and send the floppy diskette to them for
   printing.
   3.1.2. JDC II is an on-line application that places transactions into a data storage area on the central
   computer. DFAS-DE programs provide prompted screen formats containing edits for most of the
   DJMS-AC input transaction formats. Less common transaction formats may be entered on a single
   generalized format screen. Stored transactions can be accessed for display, correction or deletion by
   authorized personnel. A supervisor flag is required to indicate the transaction file has been verified.
   Verified transactions are automatically included in the next DJMS-AC update. FSO transactions must
   be verified.

3.2. Terms Explained:
   3.2.1. Cycle is a series of alphanumeric characters sequentially assigned to a block of transactions.
   The cycle is used as a tool for research purposes.
       3.2.1.1. FSO Cycles. LeaveWeb uses a number/number cycle sequence numbering system
       assigned by the user from 01 through 99 (repeating cycle 01 after termination of cycle 99). For all
       cycles done manually within the FSO (not LeaveWeb), or by geographically separated units
       (GSU), cycle numbers must be alpha/numeric (example: A0, A1, A2, B0, B1, etc).
       3.2.1.2. Agents Cycles. JDC III cycle numbers are sequentially assigned by the user from A1
       through Z9 and are repeated after termination of cycle Z9. NOTE: Cycle numbers X1 through
       X9 are not to be used.
       3.2.1.3. JDC II Cycles. Cycle numbers are systematically assigned on each terminal from AA
       through ZZ. The next cycle number is incremented by one when a cycle is verified.
92                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     3.2.2. Keyer ID is a two digit field assigned by the Chief of Military Pay, used to determine who input
     a transaction through JDC III.

3.3. Key Functions:
     3.3.1. Program Function Key (PF#). Press ALT key and corresponding number simultaneously.
     3.3.2. Enter. ENTER or RETURN key.
     3.3.3. Escape (Esc). Esc key (top left corner of keyboard).
     3.3.4. Print screen. Press shift and PRTSC key simultaneously for JDC III screen print. Press F7 key
     for JDC II screen print.
     3.3.5. Tab (to move the cursor). TAB key to move forward; shift/TAB key simultaneously to move
     backwards.
     3.3.6. Page Down (Pg Dn). Pg Dn Key or Page Down key right side of key board.
     3.3.7. Page Up (Pg Up). Pg Up key or Page Up key right side of key board.
     3.3.8. Clear JDC II screen. Press F2 key.

3.4. Applicable Trans-IDs. Trans-IDs are four position alphanumeric inputs which identify a specific
program function on the DFAS-DE mainframe computer.
     3.4.1. JOLV. This function is used to transfer the JDC III transactions from a temporary storage file
     to a permanent storage file. This function is required after an FSO or agent completes a file transfer.
     Ensure the profile JAGENTS has been loaded to the appropriate computer associates top secret
     (CATS) user-ID before attempting a file transfer or the JOLV function.
     3.4.2. JOPS. This function is used to enter transactions on-line. Bases have the ability to enter trans-
     actions 24 hours a day.
     3.4.3. JQEV. This function is used by the QE section to view, correct, verify and print transactions,
     and display the cycles received by DFAS-DE.
     3.4.4. JUPD. This function allows the user to receive DJMS update results from the current and four
     preceding, updates. Output results are usually ready the morning after the update. Bases have the
     ability to receive update results 24 hours a day.
     3.4.5. JVSN. This function is used to change the destination of output products for an ADSN.

Section 3B—JDC III Instructions.

3.5. Sign-on. JDC III is used with a stand-alone personal computer. You do not need communications
with DFAS-DE to key transactions. JDC III must be installed on the hard disk drive of your personal
computer. NOTE: JDC III can be installed or updated from either the A: or B: drive from either 5 1/4”
or 3 1/2” disks. To install JDC III follow these steps:
     3.5.1. Insert the installation disk (system disk 8) in either the A: or B: drive, whichever is appropriate
     for the disk type (3 1/2” or 5 1/4”).
     3.5.2. From the C:\> prompt type “A:” if you are using the A: drive or “B:” if you are using the B:
     drive then press <ENTER>.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                93


   3.5.3. At the A:\> prompt or B:\> prompt, whichever is appropriate, type “setup” then press
   <ENTER>.
   3.5.4. Follow the on screen instructions carefully, and ensure that all eight systems disks are copied.
   3.5.5. Follow the same procedures listed above for installing changes to JDC III. Normally when you
   install changes there will be only one disk. The change disk will be the installation disk.
   3.5.6. In the past the system forced users to update all eight system disks anytime a change to JDC III
   was installed. This will no longer be done with the new installation/update program.

3.6. Add Transactions. The Add transactions option allows you to begin processing transactions. From
the Main Menu, press the letter "A" and you will receive a prompt for the Format-ID and ACTN indicator
of a DJMS input transaction. Key the Format-ID and ACTN indicator to receive a prompted screen. (See
Figure 3.3.)
   3.6.1. All prompted fields on the screen are edited when keyed, except the SSN and name. When a
   field contains an error, you must correct the initial error before proceeding with the next field. After
   all fields have been keyed, the transaction is re-edited before the input source is entered. If the trans-
   action contains multiple field errors, the cursor will return to the field in error. The processing starts
   again with the editing of the changed data. If the transaction passes the edits, the transaction is added
   to the accepted transaction file on the microcomputer and the message "Transaction was added" is dis-
   played at the bottom of the screen. (See Figure 3.4.)
   3.6.2. At anytime before the transaction has been accepted (passed the edits), you can cancel the
   transaction by pressing the "F6" key. The transaction will not be assigned a sequence number and will
   not be written to the transaction file. To enter a different DJMS-AC input transaction, enter the For-
   mat-ID and ACTN Indicator in the NEXT REQUEST field and press ENTER. A new prompted
   screen will appear. When the transaction is accepted, the data is automatically formatted into a 80
   record transaction and stored in the microcomputer for file transfer to DFAS-DE. Exit the data entry
   function by placing an "X" in the NEXT REQUEST field.
   3.6.3. The NEXT REQUEST field will contain the same Format-ID as the previous transaction. By
   pressing the "ENTER" key, after the previous transaction has passed the edits, the same transaction
   screen will appear. The SSN and name fields will be erased but the common area is retained. The F3
   key will carry over the SSN and name from the previous transaction. This makes duplicating any
   fields that are not changed easier. After keying the new SSN and the name, simply "tab" to the field(s)
   that need to be changed. By pressing the "Pg Dn" after keying the changed data, the cursor will go to
   the input source field. If this field is also unchanged, either press the "Pg Dn" key again or press the
   ENTER key. The transaction then will be edited for multiple field edits as explained above.
   3.6.4. When a transaction requires a trailer record, the trailer record prompt is displayed when all data
   fields for the prime record pass the edits. When all trailer(s) record fields pass the edits, the NEXT
   REQUEST field (as described above) function takes effect.
   3.6.5. The money amounts in payment and collection transaction prime records accumulate until a
   total record is input. The total of the monies in the prime records and the amount in the total record is
   automatically displayed after the total record is input so you can visually ensure that totals match.
   (See Figure 3.5.) If the amounts do not match, the money fields can now be changed or corrected.
   (See Transaction Correction function.) If the money amounts do match, press ENTER to add the
   transaction to the end of the field. If the total monies in the prime records are changed, then the total
94                                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     record will show the new detail totals. (Payment and collection transactions should not be entered by
     an agent office without prior approval from the parent FSO.)

3.7. Exit to DOS. Key in the letter "X" to return to the DOS prompt.

3.8. New Cycle (New Day). The New Cycle (New Day) function allows you to change cycle numbers
during the day. This function will delete the file containing the transactions on the hard drive from a pre-
vious cycle. (NOTE: DO NOT EXECUTE THIS BEFORE YOU HAVE TRANSFERRED YOUR
TRANSACTIONS TO A FLOPPY DISK OR THEY WILL BE LOST.) When you press the "N" key
from the Main Menu you will receive a warning message (THIS SELECTION WILL DELETE THE
AFAFC.DAT AND PNTR.FLE FILES ON C:\JDC\DATA\. ENTER "Q" TO QUIT AND RETURN TO
MENU. ENTER C TO CONTINUE.). After the files are erased, you will be requested to provide your
keyer ID, ADSN and your next cycle number. (See Figure 3.1.) The Main Menu will appear and you can
begin creating transactions by pressing the A key.

3.9. Correct Transactions. The correct transactions function allows you to change the ADSN, cycle
number and transaction(s) stored on your hard drive.
     3.9.1. From the Main Menu, press the letter "C" and you will receive the "CORRECT SELECTION"
     menu. Enter "A" to change the ADSN, "C" to change the cycle number and "T" to correct the trans-
     actions. If you select "T" you will receive a prompt for the transaction number to be corrected. (See
     Figure 3.6.) Enter the transaction number of the transaction to be corrected and press ENTER. When
     the transaction appears on the screen, move the cursor to the incorrect data and re-key that portion of
     the transaction.
     3.9.2. All data entry edits are performed on transactions in the transaction correction function. The
     fields will be re-edited as you tab through each field. The complete transaction will be re-edited
     before the input source is entered. The ADSN, cycle number, transaction number or trailer record
     indicator cannot be changed when you are correcting a transaction.

3.10. Delete Transactions. The delete transactions function allows you to place a delete code in a trans-
action stored on your hard drive.
     3.10.1. If a transaction has a delete code ("DELE" in character positions 6-9), it will be stripped off
     programmatically before being released into the DJMS update. To delete a transaction, press the letter
     "D" from the Main Menu. A prompt will appear requesting the transaction number to be deleted.
     (See Figure 3.8.) After keying the transaction number and pressing the ENTER key, the complete
     transaction will appear on the screen, with a message, "DELETE THIS TRANSACTION Y OR N"
     (See Figure 3.8.) This allows you to view the transaction to ensure it is the transaction you want to
     delete. To delete the transaction, press the "Y" key.
     3.10.2. If, after the transaction appears, you decide not to delete the transaction, press the "N" key. If,
     after deleting the transaction, you decide the deletion was an error, return to the Transaction Correc-
     tion function and re-key character position 6-9 (SSN field) with the correct SSN. If another transac-
     tion is to be deleted, enter the transaction number in the NEXT REQUEST field and press ENTER.
     Return to the Main Menu by placing an "X" in the NEXT REQUEST field.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               95


3.11. View Transactions. The View transactions function allows you to view transactions stored on your
hard drive.
   3.11.1. From the Main Menu press the "V" key and you will receive a prompt asking, "START AT
   THE 1ST? ENTER Y OR N". (See Figure 3.9.) By pressing the "Y" the complete cycle will appear
   on the screen(s). You may page backward or forward within the cycle by pressing the Pg Up or Pg Dn
   keys. By pressing the "N" key at the prompt, a prompt will ask for "STARTING TRANSACTION
   NUMBER". (See Figure 3.10.) By entering the Starting Sequence Number and pressing ENTER,
   that transaction and all subsequent transactions in the cycle will appear on the screen(s).
   3.11.2. You can print transactions screen-by-screen while in the Transaction View function by using
   Print Screen. (See CRT Keyboard instructions.) To exit the Transaction View function, press the Esc
   KEY.

3.12. Print Transactions. The Print transactions function allows you to print transactions for auditing.
By pressing the "P" from the Main Menu you will receive a prompt asking "START AT THE 1ST ENTER
Y OR N". (See Figure 3.11.) By pressing the "Y" the complete cycle will print. By pressing the "N" a
prompt will appear asking what transaction number to begin and end with. (See Figure 3.12.) Enter the
beginning and ending transaction number and press ENTER. Only those transactions requested will print.
If you decide not to print any transaction, press the Esc key before pressing the Y or N key at the first
prompt and you will return to the Main Menu. You will automatically return to the Main Menu after the
transactions requested begin printing.

3.13. Transfer Transactions. The Transfer transactions function allows you to copy transactions from
your hard drive to a floppy diskette or from a floppy diskette to a hard drive. By pressing the "T" from the
Main Menu you will receive a Transfer Selection menu screen. Enter "X" to return to the Main Menu,
"M" to copy transactions from your hard drive to a floppy diskette and "L" to copy transactions from a
floppy diskette to your hard drive. A copy of JDC III cycles should be kept on a floppy diskette until pro-
cessed through the update. NOTE: This selection will overwrite any previously keyed data. Ensure any
transactions you had on your hard drive were transferred to floppy diskette prior to transferring transac-
tions from a floppy diskette to your hard drive.

3.14. File Transfer. To begin the file transfer of the transactions on your hard drive to a floppy diskette
using the transfer function, follow the steps below to transfer your transactions from a floppy diskette to
DFAS-DE to be included in the next DJMS-AC update:
   3.14.1. If you are in JDC exit from the MAIN menu to the DOS prompt.
   3.14.2. Change from the JDC directory to your communication directory by keying the command "cd
   \directory name (the directory name should be "COMM") and press enter.
   3.14.3. To activate communications, key in the command "LOADSNA", and press enter.
   3.14.4. Toggle to the sign-on screen by pressing both shift keys simultaneously. When you receive
   the sign-on screen (see Figure 3.13.), key in your "USERID" and "PASSWORD", and press ENTER.
   3.14.5. When you receive the application selection screen (see Figure 3.14.) select "CICSJ3" and
   press enter.
   3.14.6. The screen will display "SIGN-ON IS COMPLETE". Press F2 to clear screen.
96                                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     3.14.7. Toggle again by pressing both shift keys simultaneously. The C:> prompt will appear.
     3.14.8. Insert the 5 1/4 inch floppy data diskette into drive "B".
     3.14.9. Key in "SENDDATA", and press enter. You will receive two messages. Read them carefully.
     After each message is received press enter. The screen will display, "FILE TRANSFER COMMAND
     BEING PROCESSED and "SEND B: AFAFC.DAT AGTINP". The screen will also show the num-
     ber of characters (not transactions) transferred so far. Wait for the message, "TRANS03 TRANSFER
     COMPLETE".
     3.14.10. TO TOGGLE TO THE COMMUNICATIONS SCREEN press both SHIFT keys simulta-
     neously. You will receive another message, "TRANS 03 FILE TRANSFER COMPLETE". Press F2
     to clear the screen. NOTE: At this point your data has been sent from your PC to the mainframe, but
     is located in a temporary storage area that is overlaid each time you do a "SENDDATA".
     3.14.11. Key in "JOLV", and press ENTER. This puts the transactions in a permanent storage area for
     inclusion in the next DJMS-AC update. This function transfers your transactions from temporary to
     permanent storage. The JUMPS File Transfer Report will appear with the number of transactions
     passed to the DJMS update. "JOLV" must be entered after each cycle is transmitted. "JOLV" allows
     the user to correct SSN and name errors or to print a listing of errors for correction at a later time.
     3.14.12. Key CSSF (space) LOGOFF, press ENTER.
     3.14.13. You can now press both SHIFT keys simultaneously to toggle to the VTAM or DOS prompt
     (C>cursor).
     3.14.14. If you receive error messages in step "I", see the IRMA documentation. When looking up
     error messages, IRMA documentation TRANS** is the same as your screen DCANS**. Steps "A"
     through "K" transfer your transactions to a temporary file at DFAS-DE. Step "L" transfers the trans-
     actions from the temporary storage area to a permanent file at DFAS-DE. ALL STEPS MUST BE
     PERFORMED or the file will not be included in the DJMS update.

Section 3C—JDC II Instructions.

3.15. Sign-on. To gain access to JDC II you must have an active communication line to DFAS-DE. To
activate your communications software take the following steps:
     3.15.1. From your communication directory key in the command "LOADSNA", and press enter.
     3.15.2. Toggle to the sign-on screen (see Figure 3.13.) by pressing both shift keys simultaneously.
     When you receive the sign-on screen, key in your "USERID" and "PASSWORD", and press ENTER.
     3.15.3. When you receive the application selection screen (Figure 3.14.), select CICSJ3, and press
     ENTER.
     3.15.4. When the screen displays "SIGN-ON IS COMPLETE" you are ready to key in the appropriate
     "TRANS-ID" to gain access to a specific program on the DFAS-DE mainframe computer. The para-
     graphs below contains the instructions for accessing each "TRANS-ID".

3.16. JOPS. To enter transactions key in "JOPS", and press enter. You will receive a menu screen (see
Figure 3.15.) that allows transaction input (Format-ID and Action Indicator). You can go to a help screen
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                97


by pressing PF1 (Alt/1 on your PC) (see Figure 3.16.) or a view delete screen by pressing PF2 (Alt/2 on
your PC.) (See View-Delete Function, Figure 3.17.)
   3.16.1. By entering the Format-ID and Action Indicator of a DJMS-AC input transaction you will
   receive a prompted screen (Figure 3.18.) or a generalized screen (Figure 3.19.). All prompted fields
   on the screen are edited, including SSN and name. The SSN and name edits are bypassed if the first
   position of the Action indicator is a "3", indicating a recent accession. When a field contains an error,
   the formatted screen is returned to the user displaying the error(s) so corrections can be made (see Fig-
   ure 3.20.). The processing starts again with the editing of the changed data. If the transaction passes
   the edits, the transaction is added to the accepted transaction file at DFAS and the cycle and number
   are displayed.
   3.16.2. The NEXT REQUEST field will contain the same Format-ID as the previous transaction.
   When the previous transaction passes all edits, the SSN and name fields are erased and the common
   area is retained. This facilitates duplicating any fields of the transaction that are not changed. If you
   want a different DJMS-AC input transaction, enter the Format-ID and Action Indicator in the NEXT
   REQUEST field and the new prompted format will be displayed after the previous transaction is
   accepted. At anytime before the transaction has been accepted (passed the edits), the user can cancel
   the transaction by pressing PF6 (Alt/6 on your PC). The transaction will not be assigned a sequence
   number and will not be written to the transaction file.
   3.16.3. When a transaction requires a trailer record, the trailer record prompt is displayed when all
   data fields for the prime record passes the edits. When all trailer(s) record fields pass the edits, the
   NEXT REQUEST field (as described above) function takes effect.
   3.16.4. The money amounts in pay and collection transaction prime records accumulate until a total
   record is input. The total of the monies in the prime records and the amount in the total record are dis-
   played before acceptance to allow visual verification that the totals match. The money amounts can
   now be changed or corrected. Press enter to add the transaction to the end of the file. If a user is not
   authorized the P & C function the prompt screen will appear. When the data is edited at DFAS, the
   user will get a message that he/she is not authorized the P&C function.
   3.16.5. When all fields in a transaction pass the edits, the data is formatted into an 80 character record
   and stored at DFAS until the next DJMS-AC update. To exit this function place an "X" in the next
   request field.

3.17. JQEV. To perform the Quality Examination functions key in "JQEV", and press enter. You will
receive the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU (see Figure 3.21.) which allows you to choose from the
following options by moving the cursor to the parenthesis to the left of the function, keying an "X", and
pressing enter:
   3.17.1. Display Cycle Summary Function. This function displays each cycle input by the FSO or
   agent and the number of transactions in the cycle. Check this function before each update to ensure
   the correct number of transactions was received for each cycle.
       3.17.1.1. From the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU place an "X" in the Display Cycle Sum-
       mary field to display cycles. (See Figure 3.22.) The asterisk to the right of the transaction count
       indicates the cycle has not been verified. NOTE: Only verified FSO cycles will be included in
       the next scheduled DJMS-AC update.
98                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        3.17.1.2. No more than 10 cycles will appear on the screen at one time. Normally there are fewer
        than 10 cycles. If so, press enter to return to the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU. If there are
        more than 10 cycles, scroll forward or backward by following the directions at the bottom of the
        screen. Place an "X" in the next request field to exit this function.
     3.17.2. Cycle View and Cycle Print Functions. These functions allow you to view or print input
     transactions:
        3.17.2.1. From the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU, you can specify a range of transaction
        numbers or an entire cycle to view or print. If you specify a cycle or a range of transactions that
        does not exist on the CYCLE SUMMARY screen you will receive the message "CYCLE OR
        TRANSACTION NOT FOUND; REENTER OR EXIT". This will happen if you have entered the
        wrong cycle, the cycle has not been transferred to DFAS, or if the cycle has been included in a
        DJMS-AC update.
        3.17.2.2. To view all the screens containing transactions while in CYCLE VIEW follow the direc-
        tions at the bottom of the screen. They are the same as those described in the DISPLAY CYCLE
        SUMMARY function.
        3.17.2.3. You have the capability to print transactions screen by screen while in the CYCLE
        VIEW function. Figure 3.23. shows the CYCLE VIEW screen; this is the data printed in the
        CYCLE PRINT function.
     3.17.3. Correct Function. This function allows you to change transactions before they are included in
     the next DJMS-AC update. NOTE: Transactions can only be changed by the original keyer for JDC
     II input and the person who file transferred a JDC III cycle. After the cycle is verified, transactions
     can only be deleted, not changed.
        3.17.3.1. Enter the cycle and transaction number you want to change from the QUALITY EXAM-
        INATION MENU. When the transaction appears on the screen, move the cursor to the incorrect
        data. Press the ENTER key after keying the changes. The message "CYCLE ** TRANS ****
        PROCESSED" will be displayed. If you make changes to a transaction and decide no correction
        is needed, press "PF6" (Alt/6 on your PC). This will cancel the changes and restore the transaction
        to its original data and the message, "NO CHANGE TO TRAN-NUM ****" will be displayed.
        When you are finished correcting a transaction, press ENTER. The next transaction from the
        cycle, based on transaction number, will appear. You can also request a specific transaction by
        placing the cycle and/or transaction number in the area at the bottom of the screen. To return to
        the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU, place an "X" in the "CYCLE ( )" area.
        3.17.3.2. No edits are performed when a transaction is corrected in this function. If the correction
        is erroneous, the transaction will reject in the DJMS-AC update. You cannot change the ADSN,
        cycle number, transaction number, or trailer record indicator. The QE CORRECT TRANSAC-
        TIONS screen is displayed in Figure 3.24.
     3.17.4. Verify Function. This function allows you to indicate that a cycle has been reviewed and it is
     ready to be included in the next DJMS-AC update.
        3.17.4.1. To verify a cycle, from the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU place an "X" in the
        VERIFY field, include the cycle to be verified and press enter. The QUALITY EXAMINATION
        MENU will reappear with the message "CYCLE ** VERIFIED WITH **** TOTAL TRANSAC-
        TIONS" displayed at the bottom of the screen. (See Figure 3.25.) When you view the CYCLE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           99


      SUMMARY" screen, you will see that the asterisk for the verified cycle has been removed. Fig-
      ure 3.22. displays a CYCLE SUMMARY screen with a verified cycle. Only verified FSO cycles
      will be included in a DJMS-AC update. Agent cycles will be sent to an update whether verified or
      not.
      3.17.4.2. If no cycle number is entered the current unverified cycle is verified. When a cycle is
      verified, any new transactions entered will contain the next cycle number. (Cycle numbers are
      incremented by one.)
   3.17.5. Delete Function. This function allows you to delete transactions before they have been
   included in a DJMS-AC update. You can delete up to 10 transactions per screen.
      3.17.5.1. To delete a transaction from the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU, place an "X" in
      the DELETE field. You will receive a QE DELETE TRANSACTIONS screen. To delete a trans-
      action, key in the cycle and transaction number to be deleted, and press ENTER. The screen will
      reappear displaying name, Format ID and action indicator of the deleted transaction. (See Figure
      3.26.) If the transaction you are trying to delete is not found, the name, Format ID, and action
      indicator fields will appear with asterisks and the message "TRANSACTION NOT FOUND".
      (See Figure 3.27.)
      3.17.5.2. If, after keying the cycle and transaction number, you decide not to delete the transac-
      tion, press "PF6" (Alt/6 on your PC). The transaction will not be deleted and the message "NO
      TRANSACTIONS DELETED-FUNCTION CANCELED" will be displayed at the bottom of the
      screen. (See Figure 3.28.) If, after pressing the enter key, you decide the deletion was an error,
      return to the CORRECT function and re-key character positions 6-9 (SSN field) with the correct
      SSN. To return to the QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU place an "X" in Cycle field and press
      enter.

3.18. JUPD. To receive update results key in "JUPD" and press enter. You will receive a "REQUEST
UPDATE RESULTS" menu. (See Figure 3.29.) From this menu you can receive update results, view
update information or change output print destination by selecting the appropriate function.
   3.18.1. Current Update (A11 Reports). This function allows you to receive the current DJMS update
   for your ADSN. From the JUMPS UPDATE RESULTS menu, key a 1 in the ENTER REQUEST
   field and press ENTER. A message will appear at the bottom of the screen JOB TO RECEIVE
   UPDATE RESULTS SUBMITTED. (See Figure 3.30.) Enter X to exit the menu. A message will
   appear at the top of the blank screen **REQUEST FOR UPDATE RESULTS COMPLETE**. The
   output results will be automatically directed to your printer. Press the CLEAR key (F2) to enter
   another CICS Trans-ID or, to sign off CICS, key "CSSF LOGOFF" and press enter.
   3.18.2. Current Update (Selected Reports). This function allows you to receive specific update
   reports. From the REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu, key a 2 in the ENTER REQUEST field and
   press ENTER. The UPDATE REPORT SELECTION menu will appear. (See Figure 3.31.) Enter the
   alpha code of the report in the SELECT REPORT CODES field and press ENTER. The REQUEST
   UPDATE RESULTS menu will appear with a message at the bottom of the screen "JOB TO
   RECEIVE AFAFC UPDATE RESULTS SUBMITTED". You can now make another selection to
   receive output products or enter X to exit the menu. A message will appear at the top of the blank
   screen **REQUEST FOR UPDATE RESULTS COMPLETE**. Press the CLEAR key (F2) to enter
   the next Trans-ID or enter CSSF LOGOFF to exit CICS.
100                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      3.18.3. Previous Update (All Reports). This function allows you to receive the previous four update
      results for your ADSN. From the REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu, enter a 3 in the ENTER
      REQUEST field. The UPDATE SELECTION menu will appear. (See Figure 3.32.) Enter the update
      number (1, 2, 3, or 4) in the SELECT DESIRED UPDATE field and press ENTER. You will again
      receive the REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu with a message at the bottom of the screen "JOB
      TO RECEIVE UPDATE RESULTS WAS SUBMITTED". You can now make a selection to receive
      different results or enter X to exit the menu. A message will appear at the top of the screen
      **REQUEST FOR UPDATE RESULTS COMPLETE**. Press the CLEAR key (F2) to enter another
      CICS Trans-ID or, to sign off of CICS, enter CSSF LOGOFF.
      3.18.4. Previous Update (Selected Reports). This function allows you to receive selected reports
      from four previous updates. From the REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu, key a 4 in the ENTER
      REQUEST field and press ENTER. You will receive the UPDATE SELECTION menu. Enter the
      update number (1, 2, 3, or 4) in the SELECT DESIRED UPDATE field and press ENTER. You will
      receive the UPDATE REPORT SELECTION menu. Enter the alpha code (A-H) for the report(s) in
      the SELECT REPORT CODE field and press ENTER. The REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu
      will appear with a message at the bottom of the screen JOB TO RECEIVE UPDATE RESULTS WAS
      SUBMITTED. You can now make another selection to receive output products or enter X to exit the
      menu. A message will appear at the top of the blank screen ***REQUEST FOR UPDATE RESULTS
      COMPLETE**. Press the CLEAR key (F2) to enter another CICS Trans-ID or enter CSSF LOGOFF
      to exit CICS.
      3.18.5. View Update Information. This function allows you to view a list of all available updates. By
      entering a 5 in the ENTER REQUEST field of the AFAFC UPDATE RESULTS menu you will
      receive the UPDATE INFORMATION screen. (See Figure 3.33.) Press CLEAR key (F2) to return
      to the REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu.
      3.18.6. Change Output Printer Destination(s). This function allows you to change the printer destina-
      tion for your output results. From the REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu, enter a 6 in the ENTER
      REQUEST FIELD. The CHANGE OUTPUT DESTINATION menu will appear. (See Figure 3.34.)
      This menu shows the output products by PCN number and gives current printer addresses of each.
      The bottom of the screen informs you of other available printer destinations. The output results will
      be rerouted by entering the corresponding number in the NEW ADDRESS field and pressing the
      ENTER key. The REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu will appear with a message at the bottom of
      the screen OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATION CHANGED. (See Figure 3.35.) If you select a
      printer destination and decide to cancel it press "PF6" (Alt/6 on your PC). The REQUEST UPDATE
      RESULTS menu will appear with the message "OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATION CHANGED".
      NOTE: This change is permanent until another change is requested.

3.19. JVSN. To receive another FSO's output products key in "JVSN", and press enter. You will receive
the CHANGE OUTPUT DESTINATION ADSN menu. (See Figure 3.36.) At the top of the menu is
your ADSN. Enter the other FSO's ADSN at the cursor and press ENTER. The REQUEST OUTPUT
RESULTS menu will appear with a message at the bottom of the screen ADSN OVERRIDE IN EFFECT
- REQUEST OUTPUT FOR ABOVE ADSN. (See Figure 3.37.) You may now request products for that
ADSN. When you exit this menu and receive the message "REQUEST FOR UPDATE RESULTS COM-
PLETE ", your ADSN is automatically reset.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                101


3.20. Receiving Update Results to Hard Drive or Floppy Diskette. Update results may be redirected
to your hard drive or a floppy diskette for later printing. This will allow a more efficient transfer of data.
Your update results will be sent to whatever directory and drive you are using when you begin the redirect
procedure. There are two types of communication software: "IRMACOM" and "IRMAREMOTE".
Communications must be established with DFAS-DE to redirect update results. (NOTE: Your CRT
should have the IRMA status line at the bottom of the screen. If not, press both shift keys simulta-
neously.) IRMACOM's status line will display two arrows and IRMAREMOTE display "R" in the center
of the status line. Below are the steps required to redirect update results for "IRMACOM" and
"IRMAREMOTE".

3.21. IRMACOM. To redirect update results using "IRMACOM" take the following steps:
   3.21.1. Hold the shift key down and press the F1 key. The HELP menu screen (see Figure 3.38.) will
   be displayed.
   3.21.2. Press the F7 key to display the Printer Redirection screen. (See Figure 3.38.) This display
   shows that the IRMA software is configured to send your output products to the printer.
   3.21.3. Press the F1 key to redirect output products to your hard drive or a floppy diskette. The screen
   will display a second line. (See Figure 3.37.)
   3.21.4. Press the F10 key to return to the Help menu screen, then press the F10 key a second time to
   exit the redirect function.
   3.21.5. DFAS-DE Update Results. Upon executing the job JUPD, all selected output products will be
   directed to your hard drive or a floppy diskette. The red light will start to blink upon receipt of the
   output products. It will continue to blink until all products have been received. Wait at least 5 minutes
   after the light stops blinking before proceeding. Once output products have been received, take the
   following steps to close the file: NOTE: You must close the file at this time.
       3.21.5.1. Hold the shift key down and press the F1 key. The HELP menu screen will be dis-
       played. (See Figure 3.38.)
       3.21.5.2. Press the F7 key. The printer redirection screen will be displayed. (See Figure 3.38.)
       3.21.5.3. Press the F2 key to close the file. The disk drive light will come on and then go off.
       This tells you the file is being closed. The file name is PRNTER02.000. The extension "000" will
       be incremented by one for each file received.
       3.21.5.4. To receive additional output products on your hard drive or a floppy diskette, press the
       F10 key twice to exit the redirect function. (If you want to start receiving products on your printer,
       press the F1 key. The on-line printer redirection screen will be displayed). (See Figure 3.38.)
       Press the F10 key twice to exit the printer redirect function. All output products will now be
       directed to your printer.

3.22. IRMAREMOTE. To redirect update results using IRMACOM take the following steps:
   3.22.1. Hold the CTRL key down and press the "P" key. The first IRMAREMOTE REDIRECT
   screen (see Figure 3.39.) will be displayed. The word READY (top left corner) should be high-
   lighted.
102                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      3.22.2. Press the F1 key. The HOLD PRINT FIELD (directly below READY) will be highlighted.
      You will receive another redirect screen.
      3.22.3. Hold the ALT key down and press the "T" key. Another redirect screen will appear. (See Fig-
      ure 3.40.) From this screen you can decide whether to print products while they are also being redi-
      rected to a specific drive or only redirect your products to a specific drive without printing.
      3.22.4. Press the ENTER key twice. Press the Letter "N" and press enter if you do not want to print
      products while redirecting them to a specific drive. Otherwise, press the enter key to print products
      while they are being redirected.
      3.22.5. Press the Enter key three times. You will receive another redirect screen. (See Figure 3.41.)
      Highlighted in approximately the middle of the screen you will see Output: PRNTER02.DAT 0. This
      is the name of the file and the character count. This file is not incremented similarly to the file in
      IRMACOM. This file will be over written if more than one file is received. You should copy the
      products on this file onto a floppy or to another file if you want to retain them.
      3.22.6. Press the F1 key. The HOLD PRINT field will no longer be highlighted. Hold down the
      CTRL key and press the letter O. You will return to your communication screen and will be ready to
      receive redirected products. After you have made your request (selected the appropriate products
      from the REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS menu in JUPD), you can determine when the request begins
      to be received and when it is finished, by holding down the CRTL key and pressing the letter "P". You
      will receive the screen at Figure 3.42. with the highlighted area once again. Once the request begins
      to be received, the IN SESSION field (directly to the right of READY) WILL BE BRACKETED
      (EXAMPLE [IN SESSION]) and the character counter will begin to increase. After the complete file
      has been received, the brackets around IN SESSION will disappear.
      3.22.7. Once all of your requests have been received, you must close the file by taking the following
      steps:
         3.22.7.1. Figure 3.42. should be on your screen. Press the F1 key. The HOLD PRINT field will
         be highlighted.
         3.22.7.2. Hold down the ALT key and press the letter "T". This will close the printer file.
         3.22.7.3. Press the F1 key. The READY field will be highlighted.
         3.22.7.4. Hold down the CRTL key and press the letter O. You will return to your communication
         screen.

3.23. Extracting Daily Register of Transactions (DROT) Data from the Document Transmittal List
(DTL). These procedures allow the DROT to be extracted from the DTL after the DTL is written to a hard
drive. After the DTL is received, you need to copy it to a floppy diskette to retain it since this procedure
deletes the DTL. Take the following steps to extract DROT data from the DTL:
      3.23.1. Reboot by pressing CTRL, ALT, and DEL keys simultaneously because DROT cannot run
      when communications are active. This action will sever your communications and will require you to
      reestablish connectivity with DFAS-DE.
      3.23.2. After the C> prompt reappears, change to your DROT directory by entering the command
      "CD \DROT", and pressing ENTER. You will receive a screen asking the disk drive letter specifica-
      tion. (See Figure 3.43.) Key in "DROT C", and press ENTER, if your DROT program is executed
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           103


   from your hard drive. Key in "DROT A" if your DROT program is executed from the A: floppy drive
   and the input DTL is on the B: floppy drive.
   3.23.3. Once you have made your selection the JUMPS DROT MAIN MENU screen (see Figure
   3.44.) will appear. Press "C" to CREATE DROT from DTL.
   3.23.4. When the JUMPS DROT CREATE SELECTION SCREEN (see Figure 3.45.) appears, and
   displays the message, "IS THE DTL DATA LOCATED ON DRIVE B: OR C:? HIT B OR C OR Esc
   TO RETURN TO MENU". Press "B" if the DTL data is on drive B: and "C" if the DTL data is on
   your hard drive. A short time after you have made your selection the screen will display the total
   number of DROT transactions created.
   3.23.5. Press any key to return to JUMPS DROT MAIN MENU. Press "P" to print DROT and follow
   the instructions given by the JUMPS DROT PRINT SELECTION screen. Read the prompts care-
   fully.
   3.23.6. Once the DROT is printed the JUMPS DROT MAIN MENU will reappear. Press "X" to exit
   to MS-DOS.

3.24. Printing Output Products from Your Hard Drive or Floppy Diskette. After the file containing
your output products is written to your hard drive or a floppy diskette, toggle from the IRMA software to
the DOS prompt C>. Take the following steps to print your output products:
   3.24.1. For IRMACOM, key in the following commands:
       3.24.1.1. Print PRNTER02.000, and press ENTER if your products are on your hard drive:
       3.24.1.2. Print A:PRNTER02.000, and press ENTER if your products are on a floppy diskette in
       drive "A".
       3.24.1.3. Print B:PRNTER02.000, and press ENTER if your products are on a floppy diskette in
       drive "B".
   3.24.2. For IRMAREMOTE, Key in the following commands:
       3.24.2.1. Print PRNTER02.DAT, and press ENTER if your products are on your hard drive.
       3.24.2.2. Print A:PRNTER02.DAT, and press ENTER if your products are on floppy disk in drive
       "A".
       3.24.2.3. Print B:PRNTER02.DAT, and press ENTER if your products are on floppy disk in drive
       "B".

Section 3D—System Access to DJMS.

3.25. Purpose. Individuals who need access to the DJMS Master Military Pay Account (MMPA) must
have their finance office trusted agents (TAs) prepare the necessary paperwork to establish a DJMS user
ID. Prior to obtaining DJMS access, the TA must brief the individual on computer security awareness and
responsibilities when accessing a service member’s pay account. Once this is done, the individual may be
given the requested access within existing policy and regulations.
104                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


3.26. Assistance with Security Issues/Important Numbers to Remember. The Special Actions Secu-
rity Office is available for assistance with any DJMS security problems that the TA or FSO cannot
resolve. The SA Security Office can be reached via the below listed numbers and e-mail address: Mon-
day – Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. mountain time zone (Denver):


         Phone Number:              DSN 926-6631
                                Comm (303) 676-6631


         Fax Number:                DSN 926-8340
                                Comm (303) 676-8340


         E-mail Address: DFAS-IN Air Force Security (dfas-inairforcesecurity@dfas.mil)
Monday – Friday, 6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. eastern standard time


Phone Number:            DSN 699-2873, 4310, 7500, 7608, 7981, 7182, 7166, 7179, 7114
                         Comm (317) 510-2873, 4310, 7500, 7608, 7981, 7182, 7166, 7179, 7114
                         All above phone numbers have voice mail.



3.27. Appointment of DJMS TAs. The FSO, or equivalent, will ensure that a TA is designated for every
work and/or office area physically located at the site or at least one primary and one alternate TA are
appointed at the base at all times. The FSO should appoint people from within the Military Pay SMA
who, in his/her judgment, are reliable and will not compromise the system. When a TA is reassigned, the
FSO will ensure that the paperwork to add the new TA and delete the old TA is completed prior to the TA’s
departure.
      3.27.1. The request for appointment is made via a trusted agent letter, along with a completed “initial”
      DD Form 2875 (parts I-IV (SAAR)) (only if the TA does not currently have a USERID) and part V
      (OS/390) for each TA USERID. If the appointment is a replacement of an existing TA, a completed
      “deletion” DD Form 2875 (Part V (OS/390) must also be submitted to remove the old TA from the
      system.
      3.27.2. Upon receipt of the paperwork, the security office will ensure that the forms are filled out
      completely and correctly. If the forms are not completed correctly, the facsimile copy will be dis-
      carded and an e-mail will be sent to the originating TA. If the forms are correct, the security office
      will add security privileges to the current USERID or create a USERID if needed for each TA and pro-
      vide e-mail notification the USERID has been created. In this e-mail, the security office will also
      include a small package of security information for the TA to read. The USERIDs can then be used to
      administer DJMS computer security.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           105


3.28. Additional TA Responsibilities. The TAs at each site are responsible for all of the USERIDs under
the control of their FSO. In addition, the TAs will:
   3.28.1. Read and become familiar with:
       3.28.1.1. "Security Access To DJMS" in this chapter. (This will be forwarded to each new TA by
       the Security Office.)
       3.28.1.2. The DFAS Denver Handbook 8000.1, "Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Den-
       ver Center, Information Systems Security (INFOSEC) Handbook". (This can be found at address
       https://dfas4dod.dfas.mil/library/hbk80001.htm on the internet.)
       3.28.1.3. The DoD Directive 5200.28, "Security Requirements for Automated Information Sys-
       tems (AISs)". (This can be found at address http://web7.whs.osd.mil/html/520028.htm on the
       internet.)
       3.28.1.4. Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) and Defense Military Pay Office (DMO)
       and Army Case Management System Trusted Agent/Terminal Area Security Officer (TASO) Pro-
       cedures Manual.
   3.28.2. Not allow access to DJMS without first determining a need for the access.
   3.28.3. Prepare and maintain original (signed) DD Forms 2875 for each USERID within their area of
   responsibility.
   3.28.4. Submit proper documentation to the Security Office for USERIDs to be created, modified, or
   deleted. (For security reasons, these documents will only be submitted by the TAs.)
   3.28.5. For audit purposes, keep all printed DD Forms 2875 in a locked area and all electronic forms
   in a secure area. When relieved of TA responsibilities, the out-going TA will pass all documentation
   to the new TA.
   3.28.6. Maintain DD Forms 2875 for USERIDs that have been deleted from the system, for a period
   of one year from the date of deletion.
   3.28.7. Assist their users by unsuspending USERIDS and/or resetting passwords. This responsibility
   also requires analysis of why a USERID was suspended (i.e., was the user trying to access an applica-
   tion that has not been approved?). Once the problem is identified, appropriate corrective action will
   be taken by the TA.
   3.28.8. Be observant of any unauthorized personnel around their terminal area. Report any suspicious
   behavior.
   3.28.9. Notify the individuals within their area, who have USERIDs, of their responsibility for DJMS
   security. The TA is the first line of defense for all DJMS security problems.
   3.28.10. Complete a USERID validation every month, per paragraph 3.41. in this section, and for-
   ward the results to the Security Office by the first day of the following month.
   3.28.11. Keep a TA book that includes all of the information provided by the Security Office. When
   relieved of TA responsibilities, the TA will pass this book on to the new TA. Because of the sensitive
   nature of some of the information, this book must be kept in a locked area.

3.29. Completion of the Trusted Agent Letter. A new Trusted Agent Letter is required whenever there
is a change in TA. For security reasons, the letter must be filled out correctly, without any changes or
106                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


strikeovers, or we must request a new letter from the FSO. The letter consists of 2 pages; both must be
faxed (along with any required DD Forms 2875) to the Security Office as one complete package.
      3.29.1. Page 1 of the Trusted Agent Letter.
         3.29.1.1. Date: Type in the current date.
         3.29.1.2. From: Type in the organization name and the location of the TA.
         3.29.1.3. DJMS USERID: Type in the TA’s USERID.
         3.29.1.4. Name/Rank: Type in the full names (First MI Last) and ranks of the two TAs.
         3.29.1.5. Mailing Address: Type in the two complete work mailing addresses.
         3.29.1.6. EMAIL Address: Type in the two complete e-mail addresses.
         3.29.1.7. Telephone # Comm/DSN: Type in the two complete telephone numbers, commercial
         first, then DSN. If the TA is stationed overseas, the country code must be added to the DSN num-
         ber.
         3.29.1.8. Fax # Comm/DSN: Type in the two complete fax numbers, commercial first, then DSN.
         If the TA is stationed overseas, the country code must be added to the DSN number.
         3.29.1.9. FSO or Comptroller or Division Chief Signature & Signature Block: Type in the FSO's
         or Comptroller's full signature block.
      3.29.2. Page 2 of the Trusted Agent Letter. The two TAs must sign the form at the bottom after read-
      ing the complete Trusted Agent Letter.

3.30. Completion of the DD Form 2875. For security reasons, the DD Form 2875 must also be filled
out correctly and completely, without any changes or strikeovers, or a new form will be requested. All
DD Form 2875 must be typed.
      3.30.1. When filling out the DD Form 2875, the TA will type the information into the Form Flow or
      Word document that was provided by the Security Office. When the Parts I-IV (SAAR) is required,
      the TA requests the Security Manager complete Part III of the DD Form 2875. The TA obtains the sig-
      natures and dates on the form.
      3.30.2. Completing the DD Form 2875, Parts I-IV (SAAR). See Figure 3.46. for instructions/infor-
      mation concerning completion of the 2875.

3.31. Submission of Paperwork for DJMS USERIDs. For audit purposes, TAs are tasked with the
completion and the maintaining of all DD Forms 2875 (Parts I-IV [SAAR] and Part V [OS/390]) and
Trusted Agent Letters within their area of responsibility. If a DD Form 2875 or Trusted Agent Letter is
required for any level of access, a copy of it must reside in the TA’s files.
      3.31.1. TA USERIDS. The Security Office will create, modify, and delete USERIDs for TAs based
      on properly completed DD Forms 2875. Please note that a minimum of a Background Investigation
      (BI) is required to establish a USERID and forms must contain all appropriate signatures. Foreign
      Nationals will have a host nation agreement or a status of forces agreement equivalent background
      check and this will be indicated on the DD Form 2875 in Part II.
         3.31.1.1. DD Forms 2875 may only be submitted by appointed TAs; the Trusted Agent Letter
         must be signed by the FSO (or equivalent) and must be forwarded by the TA. All TA requests
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            107


       must be faxed to the Security Office. For "Initial" requests, a DD Form 2875, Parts I-IV (SAAR)
       and Part V (OS/390), along with the Trusted Agent Letter, must be completed; and all forms must
       be submitted to the Security Office. For "Modification" requests, a DD Form 2875, Part V (OS/
       390), must be completed and submitted to the Security Office. For "Deletion" requests, a DD
       Form 2875, Part V (OS/390), must be completed and submitted to the Security Office.
       3.31.1.2. Once the Security Office has completed the request, the ISSO will return it to the TA via
       fax. The TA will be notified of completion via e-mail.
   3.31.2. Local National Requests. If a TA or non-TA is a local national, all paperwork must be faxed,
   with signatures, to the security office.
       3.31.2.1. DD Forms 2875 will only be submitted by appointed TAs. All non-TA requests must be
       e-mailed to the security office security mailbox. For "Initial" requests, a DD Form 2875, Parts
       I-IV (SAAR) and Part V (OS/390), must be completed; however, only the Part V (OS/390) should
       be submitted to the Security Office. The DD Form 2875, Parts I-IV (SAAR) will remain in the
       TA's files, with all required signatures, for audit purposes. For "Modification" requests, a DD
       Form 2875, Part V (OS/390) must be completed and submitted to the Security Office. For "Dele-
       tion" requests, a DD Form 2875, Part V (OS/390) must be completed and submitted to the Secu-
       rity Office.
       3.31.2.2. Once the Security Office has completed the request, it will be signed by the ISSO and
       returned to the TA via fax. The TA will be notified of completion via e-mail.
   3.31.3. Local National Requests. If a TA or non-TA is a local national, all paperwork must be faxed,
   with signatures, to the Security Office.
       3.31.3.1. DD Form 2875 will only be submitted by appointed TAs. All local national requests
       must be faxed to the Security Office. For "Initial" requests, a DD Form 2875, Parts I-IV (SAAR)
       and Part V (OS/390), must be completed and submitted to the Security Office. For "Modification"
       requests, a DD Form 2875, Part V (OS/390), must be completed and submitted to the Security
       Office. For "Deletion" requests, a DD Form 2875, Part V (OS/390), must be completed and sub-
       mitted to the Security Office.

3.32. Assignment of Profiles. Users must have profiles that provide the access required to perform their
duties. The TAs are the user’s source of information regarding the profiles needed. The following table
describes the most commonly used profiles by name, description, and most popular execution commands.
Please keep in mind that the user must have profile JJUMPSR (Air Force Inquiry Access) for most of the
other profiles below to work properly. TA profile JMPJYBM will work by itself.
108                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Profile Name            Function of the Profile or Subsystem                      Authorized
                                                                                  Commands


JJUMPSR               Air Force inquiry to MMPAs (DJMS AC and DJMS RC)            JJAA, JLES,
                                                                                  MSO, PARM,
                                                                                  PRAA, JCCM
JJUPDPFL              View/Print Update Results                                   JUPD, JVSN
JAGENTS               ADSN/Agent File Transfer JDCIII                             JOLV, JQEV,
                                                                                  IND$
JPPCCPFL              Paying and Collecting Transactions                          JOPS
JPJOPS                Field On-LINE Processing System                             JOPS
                      (Except for Paying and Collecting Transactions)
JPBBPFL               Input EFT Payments                                          JPBB
JPBXPFL               Verify/Release EFT Payments                                 JPBX
JMCLRPFL              Message Log Read Authority                                  JAUO
                      (Latest JUMPS Messages)
JNPARMKS              Net Pay Advice Remarks                                      JLNA
WATIF2 ADSN           What-if for Separations                                     JPAM
JPQEPFL               JOPS Quality Assurance                                      JQEV
AFSAR                 View/Print Report Data (Air Force)                          SAR4
AFRGSAR               View/Print Report Data (AFR and ANG)                        SAR4
                      Reserves and Air National Guard)
ROTSCAR               View/Print Report Data (ROTC)                               SAR4
REPORT WEB            View/Print Report Data
JMPJYBM               Add ADSN and Printer ID to a USERID                         JYBM
                      (Profile for TAs Only)


NOTE: ECCS Mail Authority (old profile JECCSR, otran MAIL) is now automatic for all DJMS USE-
RIDs. Locator (old profile SLOC8PFL, otran LOCA) is also automatic as long as the user has profile
JJUMPSR (Air Force Inquiry Access). Reports Management System (old profile RMSUSR, otran
RM01) is no longer a valid profile. It has been replaced by the SARJ profile.

3.33. Separation of Duties. Several directives require “separation of duties” to minimize the possibility
of fraud and/or abuse of government resources. To limit the direct capability to input and release pay-
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              109


ments within DJMS, we will not assigned the following combinations of profiles to any single USERID.
NOTE: Under special circumstances, e.g. not enough personnel in some RPOS, a USERID may be given
both profiles except “A” below. In those cases, the local instructions will clearly stipulate that you can’t
perform the tasks assigned to both profile sets while processing payment transactions.
   3.33.1. JPBXPFL (JPBX-Release EFT Payments) and JPBBPFL (JPBB-Input EFT Payments)
   3.33.2. JPJOPS (Field O/L Processing System) and JPQEPFL (Auditor Quality Assurance)
   3.33.3. JPPCCPFL (Field Pay/Collection) and JPQEPFL (Auditor Quality Assurance)
   3.33.4. JAGENTS (JDC3) and JPQEPFL (Auditor Quality Assurance)

3.34. Initial Assignment of a USERID and Password. The Security Office will provide the TAs with
all their new USERIDs and ensure that the passwords are set to the default password. This default pass-
word is an expired password and will prompt the users to change it upon initial login. The TAs will dis-
tribute all new USERIDs to the appropriate personnel and notify them of their initial log-on password.
The users will then establish their own passwords. The TAs are not authorized to sign on and change
passwords for USERIDs that are issued to anyone other than that specific person.
   3.34.1. All users, regardless of whether they are a TA or a non-TA, will log on to their USERID
   immediately upon receipt. USERIDs that have not been logged on to after 5 days from their creation
   date will be ASUSPENDED.
110                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      3.34.2. Valid passwords consist of 6 to 8 alpha-numeric characters; a minimum of 1 character must be
      numeric. Passwords will contain no consecutively repeating characters. When a user initially signs
      onto the system, the following screens will be displayed:


Screen #01_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


KLGLGON1                      Entry Validation


Date: 05/15/01                                System: MMA
Time: 10:46:00                                Device: TMA055C0


          Identification:
          Userid.......
          Password.....       Change Password ? N (Y or N)


          Additional Information:
             Group.....
             Acct......
             Proc......


Bulletins:      You have reached the systems at DMC Mechanicsburg.
                For assistance please call:
                DMC Mechanicsburg Help Desk --> DSN 430-7426, Comm 717-605-7426


ENTER USERID
Enter F1=Help F3=Exit


Response #01_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


Type in your new DJMS USERID, hit the TAB key. Type in the default password, hit the ENTER key.
DO NOT TAB OVER AND CHANGE THE "N" TO A "Y" FOR THE CHANGE PASSWORD FIELD;
THIS JUST CAUSES PROBLEMS SIGNING IN.
_______________________________________
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     111



Screen #02_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


TSS7110E Password Has Expired. New Password



Press ENTER to continue



Response #02_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Press the ENTER key
_______________________________________




Screen #03_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


KLGNPWD1              Change Password


Type in your new password twice, and press ENTER.


     Enter new password.......
     Verify new password......


TSS7110E Password Has Expired. New Password Missing


Command ===>
Enter F1=Help F3=Exit F12=Cancel


Response #03_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


Type in your "new" password, hit the TAB key. Retype your "new" password, hit the ENTER key.
_______________________________________
112                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



Screen #04_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


TSS7030I Password Changed



Press ENTER to continue



Response #04_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


If you receive this message, hit the ENTER key. If you do not receive the message, follow the
instructions to retype your "new" password.
_______________________________________
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            113



Screen #05_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


KLHUDAT1 Update Personal Information


Change any of the following information, then
press ENTER.


 Name(First Last)........
 Location................
 Phone...................


 Other...


 Press Enter to continue
 TSS7030I Password Changed


Response #05_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


If you get this screen, type in your name (first then last) and hit the TAB key. Type in your location and
hit the TAB key. Type in your phone number and hit the ENTER key. THIS SCREEN ONLY APPEARS
ON THE INITIAL LOG ON OF A NEW USERID.
_______________________________________
114                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



Screen #06_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


Actions Options Commands Features Help


 KLSVSEL1               CL/SUPERSESSION Main Menu        More:
 Help Desk: (717)605-7426 DSN 430 Overseas Users: DSN 312-430-7426
 Select sessions with a "/" or an action code.


  Session ID Description                       Type Status
  ---------- -------------------------------- -------- ------------
 _ CICPJ3 DJMS Air Force                           Multi
 _ TAOMAIL TAO/EMC2 EMail System                              Multi


 TSS7030I Password Changed
 Command ===>                              MMA/TMA025C0
 Enter F1=Help F3=Exit F5=Refresh F9=Retrieve F10=Action


Response #06_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


If you get this SUPERSESSION screen you have successfully changed your USERID's password. You
may log on to any of the listed applications by typing an "S" to the left of it on the underline.
_______________________________________



3.35. JYBM. The DJMS system-print destinations and assignment of ADSNs are controlled by the
DJMS printer and ADSN control application JYBM. Each DJMS USERID must be in this application
with the USERID tied to the appropriate ADSN (if used) and printer identification. If not, the user will
not be able to perform any functions within DJMS requiring an ADSN or printer. TAs must remember
that when a new USERID is created, they must run JYBM and add the new user. TAs must also remember
that when a USERID is removed from the system, it is their responsibility to clean up the USERID in
JYBM.

3.36. Sharing of USERIDs and Passwords. It is extremely important to remember that personnel are
not authorized to share their USERIDs and passwords with anyone. Failure to comply will result in that
USERID being “asuspended” in DJMS. An “asuspend” is an administrative suspend placed on a USE-
RID by the Security Office or a TA. TAs cannot remove an “asuspend” on a USERID, they can only
remove USERID “suspends.” If a TA USERID is “asuspended” as a result of a sharing violation, the
Security Office will require an e-mail from the FSO to the Security Office security mailbox, stating that
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           115


the TA has been counseled on security protocols regarding sharing of USERIDs and passwords. If a
non-TA USERID is “asuspended” because of a sharing violation, the Security Office will require an
e-mail from the TA to the Security Office security mailbox, stating that the INDIVIDUAL has been coun-
seled on security protocols regarding sharing of USERIDs and passwords. USERIDs and passwords must
be protected at all times; personnel should protect their USERIDs and passwords by memorizing them.
Do not write them down and post around your area or hide them under keyboards.

3.37. USERIDS Suspension/Deletion. USERIDs must be used or they will be “asuspended” or deleted.
   3.37.1. The system will automatically “asuspend” a USERID if it is not used within 35 days and the
   Security Office will delete the USERID if it is not used within a 100-day period. No notification will
   be sent out to the TAs or FSO, and a new DD Form 2875 will be required to re-establish a deleted
   USERID. If a user will be going TDY or on leave for an extended period of time, the TA should
   notify the Security Office via e-mail (to the security mailbox), and the USERID will not be deleted
   after 100 days. The USERID will merely remain “asuspended” and reviewed periodically by the
   Security Office. The TA should follow-up to ensure the Security Office received the e-mail message
   and has acted on the TA’s request.
   3.37.2. USERIDs will also be suspended if the individual uses the wrong password in 3 consecutive
   logon attempts or attempts to use an unauthorized application 3 times. This will place a “suspend” on
   the USERID, and the TA will have to remove the “suspend.”

3.38. Changing Passwords.
   3.38.1. TA passwords must be changed every 30 days, and non-TA passwords must be changed every
   90 days. If a password has not been changed within the prescribed time frame, the system will auto-
   matically prompt the user to change his/her password at the 30- or 90-day point.
116                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      3.38.2. Passwords must be unique each time and not shared or given to anyone. Passwords should not
      be similar to any previously used password. Valid passwords consist of 6 to 8 alphanumeric charac-
      ters; at least 1 character must be numeric. Passwords will contain no consecutively repeating charac-
      ters. To change a password prior to the 30- or 90-day timeframe, do the following at the sign-on
      screen:


Screen #01_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


KLGLGON1                      Entry Validation


Date: 05/15/01                                   System: MMA
Time: 10:46:00                                   Device: TMA02501


          Identification:
            Userid.......
            Password.....       Change Password ? N (Y or N)


          Additional Information:
             Group.....
             Acct......
             Proc......


Bulletins:   You have reached the systems at DMC Mechanicsburg.
               For assistance please call:
          DMC Mechanicsburg Help Desk --> DSN 430-7426, Comm 717-605-7426


ENTER USERID
Enter F1=Help F3=Exit


Response #01_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


Type in your DJMS USERID, hit the TAB key. Type in your current password, hit the TAB key. Type in
"Y" for change password, hit the ENTER key.
_______________________________________
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       117



Screen #02_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


KLGNPWD1              Change Password


Type in your new password twice, and press ENTER.


     Enter new password.......
     Verify new password......



Command ===>
Enter F1=Help F3=Exit F12=Cancel



Response #02_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


Type in your "new" password, hit the TAB key. Retype in your "new" password, hit the ENTER key.
_______________________________________




Screen #03_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


TSS7030I Password Changed



Press ENTER to continue



Response #03_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


If you receive this message, hit the ENTER key. If you do not, follow the instructions to retype your
"new" password.
_______________________________________
118                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



Screen #04_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


Actions Options Commands Features Help


 KLSVSEL1               CL/SUPERSESSION Main Menu        More:
 Help Desk: (717)605-7426 DSN 430 Overseas Users: DSN 312-430-7426
 Select sessions with a "/" or an action code.


  Session ID Description                       Type Status
  ---------- -------------------------------- -------- ------------
 _ CICPJ3 DJMS Air Force                           Multi
 _ TAOMAIL TAO/EMC2 EMail System                              Multi




 TSS7030I Password Changed
 Command ===>                              MMA/TMA025C0
 Enter F1=Help F3=Exit F5=Refresh F9=Retrieve F10=Action




Response #04_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _


If you get a SUPERSESSION screen that looks somewhat like this one, you have successfully changed
your USERID's password. You may log on to any of the listed applications by typing an "S" to the left of
it on the underline.
_______________________________________



3.39. TA Management Tools. TAs have a few TSS (Top Secret Security) commands at their disposal
within DJMS to list, reset, unsuspend, and suspend their users. Remember that these commands must be
exact or the system will not accept them. They are not case-sensitive (can be typed in either upper- or
lower-case); however, the parentheses MUST be typed where indicated and spaces MUST be typed where
indicated. Type in one command in the upper far-left-hand corner of the screen and hit the ENTER key.
After the command has processed successfully, a “successful completion” message will appear. If an
“unsuccessful completion” message appears, normally, the command was mis-typed. Sometimes, the TA
will have to back out of DJMS to the SUPERSESSION Menu, go back in to DJMS, and re-type the com-
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          119


mand. If there is a second command, as in the case of a reset, the second command must be typed in after
the “completion” message from the first command is received/displayed.
   3.39.1. Commands to list USERIDs.
       3.39.1.1. To list a single user and all of their access:
                       tss list(userid) data(all)
NOTE: This command lists a single USERID and the access assigned to it.
       3.39.1.2. To list a single user and his/her profiles (only):
                       tss list(userid) data(profiles)
NOTE: This command lists all profiles assigned to a USERID and the name of the profiles.
       3.39.1.3. To list all of your users and their access:
                       tss list(acids) data(all) dept(yourdepartment)
NOTE: This command lists all of your users and the access assigned to each USERID.
       3.39.1.4. To list only the names of all of your users:
                       tss list(acids) data(names) dept(yourdepartment)
NOTE: This command lists all your users and the name assigned to the USERID.
   3.39.2. Commands to reset, unsuspend, and suspend USERIDs.
       3.39.2.1. To reset a USERID (which changes the password):
                       tss rem(userid) suspend
                       tss rep(userid) pass(defaultpassword,,exp)
       3.39.2.2. To unsuspend a USERID (without changing the password):
                       tss rem(userid) suspend
       3.39.2.3. To suspend a USERID:
                       tss add(userid) suspend
LEGEND:
       userid = The USERID of the individual that you want to list, reset, unsuspend, or suspend
       defaultpassword = The default password.
       yourdepartment = The first 5 positions of your USERID
NOTE: An “asuspend” is an administrative suspend on a USERID that can only be removed by the Secu-
rity Office. The TA must call or e-mail (security mailbox) the Security Office and request removal. TAs
can only remove a “suspend” on a USERID. To see whether a USERID is “asuspended” or just “sus-
pended,” the TA can list the USERID and look immediately underneath the list of profiles. If it says
"ATTRIBUTES = ASUSPEND," the USERID is “asuspended” and the Security Office must be contacted
by the TA for removal. If it says "ATTRIBUTES = SUSPEND", the USERID is only suspended; and the
TA can remove it.
120                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


3.40. Security Controls. Following are some of the tools the Security Office has to monitor DJMS secu-
rity for the Air Force.
      3.40.1. A daily audit of security violations, such as repeated attempts to access unauthorized facilities
      or commands, is conducted. Violations result in an “asuspend” and a message to the TA (FSO if the
      user is a TA) for investigation of the violation(s). If a TA USERID is “asuspended” due to a security
      violation, the Security Office will require an e-mail to the security mailbox from the FSO stating the
      TA has been counseled regarding proper security protocol. If a non-TA USERID is “asuspended” due
      to a security violation, the Security Office will require an e-mail to the security mailbox from the TA
      with the results of the TA’s investigation.
      3.40.2. An audit report of USERIDs, by name, is periodically run to ensure that a user does not have
      a USERID at two different installations or two different USERIDs at one installation. A discrepancy
      will result in an “asuspend” of the older of the USERIDs and a message to the TA (FSO if the user is
      a TA) for investigation of the violation(s). If a TA USERID is “asuspended” because of a duplicate
      USERID violation, the Security Office will require and e-mail (to the security mailbox) from the FSO
      explaining the results of the investigation. If a non-TA USERID is “asuspended” because of a dupli-
      cate USERID violation, the Security Office will require an e-mail (to the security mailbox) from the
      TA explaining the results of the investigation. Generally, we find that a user has PCS'd and no longer
      requires the USERID. If this is the case, the TA can submit the proper paperwork to have the USERID
      removed from the system.
      3.40.3. Impromptu audits are conducted by the Security Office to ensure TAs are properly maintain-
      ing their completed DISA Forms 41. During this audit, the TA will be asked to fax requested DD
      Form 2875s to the Air Force Security Office. These DISA Forms 41 will be audited and a report of
      findings will be typed up and returned to the FSO.

3.41. Instructions for Monthly Validation by TAS. Every month, TAS will formally validate the USE-
RIDs within their area of responsibility. The TAS are required to have the validation paperwork available
to the Air Force security office upon request at the end of every month. During the validation, DD Form
2875's need to be current and up to date on users access, deleted USERIDs, deployments/TDY's, name
changes, etc. A current TASO monthly review agreement will need to be sent to the air force security
office when TASO assignment changes at the base location. TASO, supervisor, and foundation data
owner (FDO) will need to sign and date the agreement. TASOs will also need to update their monthly
review checklist with TASO signature (primary or alternate) and date of review for auditing purposes. A
random audit will be given by the air force security office on these reviews. (paragraph 3.39.1.4. in this
section indicates the list commands to run the review.)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          121


   3.41.1. TASO Monthly Review Agreement:


            To:     DFAS-DE DJMS/DMO Air Force Security


            From:          TASO,_______________________________


            Location:      ________________________________


            Site ID or ADSN:_________________________


            Subject: Monthly Security Review for DJMS/DMO
            I, _______________________________, have reviewed all DJMS/DMO USERIDs
            assigned to this location. All USERIDs are assigned to this location and/or I have
            submitted a DD Form 2875 Part V to remove appropriate access/USERID.


            I have also ensured that a DD Form 2875 Part I-IV is on file for all USERIDs that are
            assigned. A DD Form 2875 Part V is also on file for appropriate access assigned to the
            USERIDs.


            _____________________________________Date:_________________________
            Primary TASO signature and print name


            _____________________________________Date:_________________________
            Supervisor signature and print name


            _____________________________________Date:_________________________
            Functional data owner (FDO) and print name


******************************************************************************
122                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      3.41.2. TASO DJMS/DMO Monthly Review Checklist:


         Location: ________________________________ ADSN/ISN:                 _______________
                        (TASO Name Reviewing)
         January:       ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         February:      ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         March:         ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         April:         ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         May:           ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         June:          ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         July:          ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         August:        ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         September:     _________________________________             Date: __________________
         October:       ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         November:      ________________________________              Date: ___________________
         December:      ________________________________              Date: ___________________



Section 3E—ROTC Data Collection.

3.42. See DFAS-DEM 7073-3.

Section 3F—Defense Milpay Office (DMO).

3.43. Description and General Information. The Defense Milpay Office (DMO) is a windows-based
transaction input system that consists of a collection of separate and interconnected screens. The DMO
software consists of various pay modules consolidated into one system. DMO consists of the following
primary modules:
      3.43.1. Input Module. Provides capabilities for creating DJMS (active and reserve component) trans-
      actions for upload to DJMS. Air force finance offices will have access to all allowable field transac-
      tion processing windows. The input module provides transaction processing for allotments,
      allowances, deductions, disbursing, entitlements, debts, incentive pays, member identification, status
      and remarks.
      3.43.2. Inquiry Module. Provides inquiry capability known as the DMO Standard Inquiry System
      (DSIS). DSIS displays the 8,200 data elements within the MMPA and provides tools to navigate
      through the system. DSIS can download multiple DJMS accounts and can retrieve member history.
      See DFAS-DEM 7073-1, chapter 5 for information on the standard inquiry system (DMO), standard
      inquiry system (DSIS).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                123


   3.43.3. Reports/Queries Module. Provides daily transaction register (DTR), LES, NPA, W-2 and
   MMPA information in a DB2 database. All current DJMS offline-reporting functions are incorpo-
   rated into the reports module. Database queries can be performed using Microsoft access.
   3.43.4. DMO Record Replication.
       3.43.4.1. General. In order to make the most of DMO, the FSO must have the most current infor-
       mation from the MMPA downloaded to the DMO server. As the records in DMO age, the chances
       that rejects will occur increase. Eventually, the plan is to have mid-tier servers at DECC which
       will allow finance to process directly without the need to replicate the data, but until then, finance
       must replicate the current MMPA from DJMS onto the DMO server on a regular basis. DMO pro-
       duces a report for each base indicating the last time DMO records were replicated.
       3.43.4.2. Automatic Updates. Use the DMOREPL utility to automatically set the interval for
       record replication (most sites have replication configured to check the mainframe every 6 to 8
       hours). When updating automatically, the DMO server contacts the mainframe and checks for
       new or updated data based on ISI. If new data is available, it will replicate it to the local database.
       Since this new data is based on nightly batch processing, replication could occur once per 24
       hours. If this data replication has not been done in some time, do a full refresh of the DMO data-
       base before setting up the automatic updates.

3.44. DMO Functional Keys: Each input screen includes a title bar, menu bar, tool bar and various
pull-down menus. Standard controls include radio buttons, group boxes, drop down lists, speed buttons
and edit boxes. NOTE: a button with an underlined letter means alt + the underlined letter can be used
as shortcut keys instead of using the mouse. Common buttons are:
   3.44.1. OK/Enter. Completes the processing of the selected function and returns to the next logical
   screen.
   3.44.2. Cancel. Aborts the current input or processing and returns to the previously selected screen.
   3.44.3. Help. Displays the help screen.
   3.44.4. Close. Closes the existing window and returns to the main screen.
   3.44.5. Delete. Deletes the highlighted transaction in the change/deleted function.
   3.44.6. Pre-fill. Accesses the local MMPA cache data.
   3.44.7. Print. Prints the current screen.
   3.44.8. Modify. Allows correction of a previously entered transaction.
   3.44.9. History. Displays all transactions submitted for processing.
   3.44.10. View. Displays the submitted transaction.

3.45. Logging In: Systems administrator assigns local usernames. The user selects passwords.
   3.45.1. Usernames must be exactly 7 characters with no spaces.
   3.45.2. Passwords must be 6-8 characters with no spaces. The user has 3-4 invalid password attempts
   (as set by systems administrator) before the account is suspended.

3.46. The Menu Bar: The basic options of the first line of the menu bar are:
124                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      3.46.1. File menu options. File menu options include:
         3.46.1.1. Open cycle – opens previously started cycle.
         3.46.1.2. Open updates – opens data sets previously processed by DJMS updates.
         3.46.1.3. Open accounts – opens current data on pay accounts.
         3.46.1.4. Select for audit – moves work into local review stage.
         3.46.1.5. Transmit – puts completed cycles in DMO corporate database for subsequent DJMS
         upload.
         3.46.1.6. Export – puts completed cycle in ASCII format for FTP/CICS upload.
         3.46.1.7. Rename cycle – allows user to rename basic cycle attributes.
         3.46.1.8. Delete cycle – allows user to delete current cycle.
         3.46.1.9. Print transaction listings – allows user to print processed transactions.
         3.46.1.10. Print setup – selects print format.
      3.46.2. Pre-Fill Menu Options. Selects the source of data to pre-fill DMO transaction data elements.
      3.46.3. Tools Menu Options. Tools menu options includes:
         3.46.3.1. Create transaction scripts – allows user to sequence transactions for DJMS compliance
         in repetitive situations.
         3.46.3.2. Tax calculator – enter taxable amount and select the choice of tax to be computed. DMO
         will request input of personal status information for FITW and SITW (and state for SITW).
         3.46.3.3. Pay products viewer – used to search, print and/or view transaction reports (i.e. daily
         transaction register), pay products and LES.
         3.46.3.4. ISC processing – used to identify source of input for transactions and statistical reports.
         3.46.3.5. User error code descriptions – used to personalize error code descriptions for user.
         3.46.3.6. Update programs – used by DMO systems administrators and standalone users to man-
         age software updates from DFAS.
         3.46.3.7. Table 50/23 lookup – allows user to look up financial and charitable institution informa-
         tion for allotment, electronic funds transfer (EFT) and charity donation input.
         3.46.3.8. Verify programs – checks for program configuration errors.
         3.46.3.9. Reserve reports – used to view/print various reports unique to DJMS-RC processing.
         3.46.3.10. Active reports – used to view/print various active duty transaction processing tools.
         3.46.3.11. Options – allows system administrators and users to configure miscellaneous settings
         without exiting the system.
      3.46.4. Help menu options.

3.47. DMO Operational Training. DMO inquiry replaces JJAA and PRAA functions, and DMO input
brings pre-filled MMPA data to the transaction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           125


  3.47.1. DMO Input. Select “pre-fill” and choose either the local or corporate database.
  3.47.2. New Cycle. For creating new transaction files or setting up payroll files:
     3.47.2.1. Select “file” and click on “new cycle”. Select service (air force), component (active)
     and servicing ADSN. Under “transaction type” click “general” for all types of transaction, other
     than misc. Payroll and collections.
     3.47.2.2. Get the cycle number from the log book/file and enter it in the “cycle” field. Click “ok”
     and the FID “launcher” opens.
     3.47.2.3. Enter a SSN and the name should pre-fill (from the local or corporate database). Select
     the transaction to be input by entering the FID in the “FID/AI/TIN” field or by entering search
     terms (i.e. BAQ, BAS, etc.) In the “searchfield”.
     3.47.2.4. Enter your two-character input source, as assigned by your systems manager, in the
     “input source” field and click “ok” to open the transaction layout. Select the action indicator
     (start, stop, report, etc) under the “action type”.
     3.47.2.5. If the member is in your database click “pre-fill” and existing MMPA data, relative to
     the transaction, will be inserted into the transaction. The pre-filled data can be accepted or over-
     layed, depending on the reason for the transaction.
     3.47.2.6. Click “ok” once all data has been verified. A notification will display showing that the
     transaction has been added to the cycle. The system will return to the FID/TIN launcher for more
     transaction input.
  3.47.3. Open Cycle. To open existing transaction files and payroll files for input, audits or reviews:
     3.47.3.1. Click “file” and select “open cycle”.
     3.47.3.2. Double click on the update that you want to revise or just click on the update once and
     press “ok”.
     3.47.3.3. Input any new data or select “change/delete” to edit existing transactions.
  3.47.4. Submitting Transaction(s) for Audit. To submit transactions to an auditor for review click on
  the “ready for audit” button. The transaction will disappear from the “open input files” window and
  reappear in the “audit” window after you select “audit” from the “type” dropdown menu. The auditor
  can accept or change the transaction(s) in the cycle. Once the auditor accepts or corrects the transac-
  tion, the input is now ready to transmit.
  3.47.5. Cycle Transmit. The DMO user with “transmit” capability needs to log into DMO by select-
  ing “file” and click on “transmit” (NOTE: the cycle can be viewed but not manipulated).
     3.47.5.1. ransmit Confirmation. Select “transmit” and a confirmation screen should appear. The
     cycle appears in the “corporate” window when the data has physically moved to the corporate
     server at the DECC in Mechanicsburg.
     3.47.5.2. Backing Out Cycles. To make changes to the cycle prior to the DJMS update, select the
     cycle in the corporate region and click “backout”. The “backout complete” message will give
     notification that the cycle has been returned to the local server. After the cycle is physically
     removed from DMO-corporate, the cycle will appear locally as though it never had been transmit-
     ted.
126                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


3.48. DMO Power Tools. The DMO tools available are mass transactions, scripts, import and table 23/
50 processing.
      3.48.1. Mass Transactions. The six steps involved in creating mass transactions are:
         3.48.1.1. Select Desired Accounts. Starting at the file menu select open accounts. Complete the
         required information. Highlight the accounts to be included in the mass transaction. If all trans-
         actions are to be included make no individual selections.
         3.48.1.2. Create/Save a SSN file. Create a SSN file to be used to create mass transactions with a
         “.SSN” extension. There are two ways to create a SSN file:
             3.48.1.2.1. Creating a file from accounts in database. From the “open accounts” screen select
             “SSN file”. Name the file (using the “file name” field) and save it in a data folder or on a
             floppy. The system will respond with a confirmation for creating a SSN file.
             3.48.1.2.2. Creating a file from an imported text (.txt) file.
             3.48.1.2.3. Create/Open Cycle. From the DMO input screen click on “file” and select “new
             cycle” or “open cycle”. Use the “browse” button to locate the SSN file. At the bottom of the
             screen select “mass”.
             3.48.1.2.4. Access the SSN File. Locate and open the SSN file. Click “ok” to the information
             dialogue box. This will open the SSN file. Click “save” to save the file.
             3.48.1.2.5. Select/Create Transaction. The mass transaction screen will appear after saving
             the SSN file. Select the desired FID and click “ok”. Complete the transaction and click “ok”.
             3.48.1.2.6. Confirm Creation Mass Transactions. DMO will complete the transaction infor-
             mation for all accounts listed in the SSN file and will add them to the cycle (note confirmation
             at bottom of screen).
      3.48.2. Scripts
         3.48.2.1. Setup. DJMS requires that related transactions be submitted in a particular order. The
         following are the steps used for setup:
             3.48.2.1.1. click on the “tools” menu
             3.48.2.1.2. click on “create transaction scripts”
             3.48.2.1.3. the transaction is added
             3.48.2.1.4. the follow on FIDs are added
             3.48.2.1.5. the screen will close when finished.
         3.48.2.2. Usage. Scripts will keep the transactions in order and drop the transaction(s) needed to
         support the event on the screen in the proper sequence (transactions may be skipped if not applica-
         ble). Click “ok” to open a cycle or create a new one. The transactions will appear in order to be
         worked.
      3.48.3. Import. Use “import” if a cycle was sent but never received and needs to be reprocessed or if
      a cycle was forgotten after it was exported for processing. To start, click “file” then “import”. Navi-
      gate to the file you want to import. Complete “new cycle” information and click “ok”. The file will
      be imported and will form a new cycle to be processed like any other cycle.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            127


   3.48.4. Table 23/60 Processing. DMO contains current table 23/table 50 information and can be
   retrieved from DMO corporate or DMO local. The two ways to access the data are:
      3.48.4.1. From the Tools Menu. Select “tools” then “table 50/23 lookup”. Use the “search” field
      or “filter” field to sort by selected criteria.
      3.48.4.2. From Within the Transaction that Uses the Data. When creating a transaction click on
      the 3 dotted icon. Select data from the table and the system will retrieve the table data and popu-
      late the necessary fields in the transaction.

3.49. DMO Reports/Queries. DMO reports and queries are broken down into three groups: open
updates, open accounts and management reports.
   3.49.1. Open Updates. Click “file” and then “open updates”. Double click the desired update cycle
   to begin the download to the “local” environment. When the download is complete click “okay”. The
   various update reports can now be accessed, sorted, printed or saved to an excel spreadsheet.
      3.49.1.1. Feedback Reports. The feedback reports include daily register of transactions (DROT),
      unit leave, management notices 1-time payments and transaction rejects/recycles.
          3.49.1.1.1. to reprocess transactions (rejects and recycles) first click on the “rejects” tab to
          narrow the search. Then double click on the transaction to be corrected. The transaction-input
          screen will open. Correct the errant data and click “resubmit”. Select the cycle which the
          resubmission will be included or select new cycle.
          3.49.1.1.2. .to export data to an excel spreadsheet select “print” at the bottom of the screen.
          The transaction listing screen will open, select “export”. Select a name and location for the
          excel file and click “save”.
          3.49.1.1.3. there are two reports produced for each update by DMO open updates reports:
      3.49.1.2. Accuracy Reports. Provides statistical information on transactions that rejected. The
      accuracy rate is computed by dividing the number of transactions processed by the number of
      transactions submitted. This report will not include recycled transactions (they will be included
      on the accuracy report when the transaction either processes or rejects).
      3.49.1.3. Timeliness Reports. Provides transaction aging in 10-day increments. The report will
      be created for the update or updates that are opened. These timeliness reports can be viewed by
      TRANS, TRANS/AI, ISC/UIC, user ID or by all the late transactions.
   3.49.2. Open Accounts. Used to produce a list of members assigned to an ADSN for site ID and for
   accessing pay products. One of three filters may be used to open accounts. They are (1) include all –
   to select all members in database; (2) by UIC – to select members in a particular UIC; and (3) by SSN
   – to select an individual member.
      3.49.2.1. Pay Products. Used to view or print a member’s LES/NPA (note: w-2s are not available
      at this time but will be added as a future option). Selecting any or all of the members listed will
      make pay products available for printing, saving and distribution. By selecting “SSN file” a file,
      suitable for future use with mass transactions, will be created. Once the selected accounts have
      been highlighted click the product (for example “LES”) tab that you want to retrieve. The selected
      pay product will be displayed.
128                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         3.49.2.2. Queries. Database queries can be performed using Microsoft access. First, select open
         accounts, and then select the queries tab at the bottom of the page (double click to view). The que-
         ries menu listing will appear. Select the desired query.
      3.49.3. Management Reports.
         3.49.3.1. Active Reports. Click active reports and then open cycle report. An open cycle report
         screen will open. The number of days open refers to how long each cycle under the particular
         ADSN has been open. Select the number of days then click “report”. A report showing which
         cycles have been open for more than the number of days chosen, and who’s responsible for them,
         will appear. Note, a closed cycle report and a transaction count by cycle report can also be gener-
         ated.
         3.49.3.2. Reserve Reports. Open cycle report, closed cycle report and cycles in update report are
         the same as for active duty. Other unique reserve reports available are:
             3.49.3.2.1. Daily Transaction Report. Provides a listing of transactions transmitted for the
             date selected. The report will provide the transactions in SSN order or SSN order by cycle.
             3.49.3.2.2. Daily Activity Report. Provides the total document by document type for begin-
             ning balance, received, processed and ending balance.
             3.49.3.2.3. Discrepancy Letter Log. Produces a report of the discrepancy letters issued for the
             date selected. This report is populated by the completion of TIN 001.
             3.49.3.2.4. Missing Transmittal Letters. Provides a report for all units or an individual unit of
             the transmittal letter(s) that have not been received at the pay support office.

3.50. DMO Security Administration.
      3.50.1. The DMO security administration function (SAF) is located under DMO on the start menu
      programs. The SAF administrator sets up new user ids and passwords, selects the allowable system
      functions for the specific user, sets system settings (such as timeouts) and creates new profiles. Pro-
      files are groups of individuals who have similar access rights. DMO provides six profiles:
         3.50.1.1. Auditors
         3.50.1.2. Input clerks
         3.50.1.3. Finance manager/supervisor
         3.50.1.4. Customers
         3.50.1.5. Security administrator
         3.50.1.6. Systems administrator
         3.50.1.7. New profiles may be added, however, the default profiles cannot be changed.
      3.50.2. Logging in as a Security Administrator. When logging in as security administrator the initial
      user ID is SAF.admin and the initial password is SAF.admin. The system will require the user ID and
      the password to be customized (user id = 7 characters exactly, password = 6-8 characters) along with
      some additional information (i.e. name, etc). Please remember the security administration user id and
      password.
      3.50.3. Security Administration Facility.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            129


     3.50.3.1. User Definitions. On the security administration facility screen select “view” and click
     on “user definitions”.
     3.50.3.2. Security Administration Rights. To add users and configure accounts go to the user per-
     missions screen click on the tree icon next to “security administrator”.
     3.50.3.3. Add Users. To add users go to the user permissions screen and click the “add” button.
     Enter the information and click “ok”.
     3.50.3.4. Configure the User. To configure a user go to the user permissions screen and click, or
     put a check mark, on the various profiles that are needed.
     3.50.3.5. User Limitations. The security administrator may limit a user’s access to certain trans-
     actions. To do this, click on “transaction view” and all available transactions will subsequently
     appear. Select those transactions to which the user should only have access to.
     3.50.3.6. Manage User Accounts. To view and/or manage the status of a user’s account click on
     “properties”. Update the user’s properties, reset passwords, suspend or unsuspend DMO usage as
     needed.
  3.50.4. Other Security Tools. DMO has other tools under the “view” menu to manage user access.
  These security tools consist of:
     3.50.4.1. Profile/Transaction Definitions. To access the profile/transaction definitions click on
     “profile/transaction definitions”. There are several default transaction sets established in the sys-
     tem. These sets may be deleted, changed or new sets may be added.
     3.50.4.2. Profile/Resource Definitions. To access the profile/resource definitions click on “pro-
     file/resource definitions”. Profiles can be added or deleted (except for defaults). Once a profile is
     added, select the resource(s) for that profile by clicking on the icon next to the resource name.
     3.50.4.3. View Events. DMO view events allows the security administrator to view when and
     what each user has signed into during DMO operation.
     3.50.4.4. Current Connections. To view current users in the system click the “refresh” button.
     3.50.4.5. Options. This function is used to set security administration facility settings on the fol-
     lowing functions:
         3.50.4.5.1. sign-on attempts before a user is suspended.
         3.50.4.5.2. password timeout (minutes).
         3.50.4.5.3. default password expiration (days).
  3.50.5. File Menu Options. The selections available are:
     3.50.5.1. Manual Sign On. Used to sign on different users to security administration.
     3.50.5.2. Users Reports. Displays the DMO security administration facility users report which
     lists the user ID and user name.
     3.50.5.3. User Log Report. Shows the login/logout date, time, user ID and what DMO module
     they logged into/out of.
     3.50.5.4. User Permissions Report. Displays the DMO security administration facility user per-
     missions report, which lists the profile and resources of the user ID and user name.
130                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         3.50.5.5. Use Suspension. Displays the DMO Security Administration Facility User Suspension
         Report, which lists the suspended user ID and user name.
      3.50.6. Other Menu Bar Items/Tools.
         3.50.6.1. Window. “Window” allows adjustment to the appearance of open windows in security
         administration. Choices are “cascade” and “tile”.
         3.50.6.2. Icon Tray. Provides access to frequently used security administration navigational tools.
         3.50.6.3. Help. Help is your security administration system manual. No hard copy manual is
         available.

3.51. DMO Systems Administration. The DMO systems administration function is used to view, access
and update information and data in the system.
      3.51.1. Command Information. On the system administration facility screen under “command infor-
      mation” click the “add” button to add service, component, and service station information. Once the
      required information is entered click “ok”.
      3.51.2. Database Information. Select “database information” to edit command information. There
      are three sections to choose from:
         3.51.2.1. Database Mode. In most cases the database mode will be “regular mode”. Click on the
         “training mode” option if you want to set up a standalone-training machine. Do not select training
         mode on a production machine.
         3.51.2.2. Local Database Information. Assigning a local database is usually established upon
         database (DB2) information. Type in “DSTR” if the site needs to produce an afafc.dat or
         rcisjss.dat file to upload through CICS.
         3.51.2.3. Corporate Database Information. Corporate database information is unique to each
         installation and is set up when DMO is initially installed.
      3.51.3. Program Updates Information. Database information has two sections:
         3.51.3.1. Update Options. This function should be available only on the workstation that admin-
         isters the server. Update options should be disabled on all other workstations. On the workstation
         that administers the server click “check FTP server for program updates”.
         3.51.3.2. FTP Updates Server Information. Complete the ftp updates server section with the
         applicable information. The “local update” entry is where DMO program updates (patches) will
         be stored. Also, always check the “prompt before doing update” box.
      3.51.4. System Software Update Process. Signing into “DMO input” allows the patches to download
      automatically. DMO confirms the availability of the software update patch(es). Do not install (click
      “no”) if anyone is signed into DMO (DMO patches can only be successfully installed if all users are
      logged off the system). Once all users are logged off the system click “yes”. DMO forces a
      shut-down and requires a restart for the patches to be applied. Restart DMO and click “help/about” to
      verify the version number.
      3.51.5. System Information. Under directory information there are six subcategories:
         3.51.5.1. Assign a System Directory. This is the directory where all programs (.d11 and .exe) are
         located.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        131


     3.51.5.2. Assign a Public Directory. Public directory contains public files to be shared by all
     authorized users. The directory contains local database tables, tax tables, etc.
     3.51.5.3. Assign a Private Directory. Private directory is used for files unique to the PC of the
     user.
     3.51.5.4. Assign an Import Directory. This is used to bring data from other sources to support
     mass transaction processing. This is the directory where RPR, AFAFC files are imported. Enter
     the directory where pay products file will reside, i.e. AFAFC for army, AF. This is the default
     directory for import function from file menu.
     3.51.5.5. Assign a Leave-Web Directory. DMO will replace ears as the source of leave web data.
     This is the folder where leave web data will reside.
     3.51.5.6. Assign a primary floppy directory. Primary floppy directory is the primary 3.5 disk
     drive of the computer.
132                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.1. DMO Query Reports for DJMS-AC


                                     DMO Query Reports


Allotment Payments
Bond Allotments/No Bond Allotments
CFC Allotments
COOP Cash Payroll
Delinquent Payment Report
EFT Statistics
Entitlement Summary
EOM Pay - Direct Deposit
EOM Pay - No Pay Due
ETS Date
Incentive Pay
Leave Balance
Legal Residence
Meal Collections
Medical Pays
Midmonth - No Pay Due
Midmonth Pay - Direct Deposit
Non Duty Pay Status
Open Debt Report
Pay Entitlements
SGLI Coverage
Temporary Duty Location (TDY)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          133


Figure 3.2. JUMPS Data Collection III, Main Menu.


                              JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                     MAIN MENU
     v3.3 c 07                                                 KEYER ID:      MH
                                                                  ADSN:      5040
                       X        EXIT            to DOS             Cycle:      A1
                                                                 Tran. Nr:      1
                       N        NEW cycle       (new day)


                       A        ADD             transactions


                       C        CORRECT         transactions


                       D        DELETE          transactions


                       V        VIEW            transactions


                       P        PRINT           transactions


                       T        TRANSFER        transactions


                                 Select LETTER listed above
134                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.3. ADD Transactions, FL03-REPORT COMBAT ZONE TAX EXCLUSION.


JUMPS                                 ADD Transactions             KEYER ID:     MH
Data
Collection            FL03-REPORT COMBAT ZONE TAX EXCLUSION           ADSN:      5040
v3.3 c 09                                                              Cycle:      A1
                                                                     Tran. Nr:      1


        SSAN     [            ]
        NAME     [        ]


        DATE-START    [           ]
        DATE-STOP     [           ]
        WAGE-CZ-XCLSN [ ]




        Hit F6 to Start Over                                       INPUT SOURCE [ ]
        Hit Esc to Avoid Adding
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                135


Figure 3.4. JUMPS Data Collection III, Add Selection.


                               JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                    ADD SELECTION
     v3.3 c 09                                                       KEYER ID:      MH
                                                                        ADSN:      5040
                                                                         Cycle:      A1
                                                                       Tran. Nr:      1




                                     Transaction was added.



        Hit Esc or X to EXIT                        NEXT Format ID [FL03]
136                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.5. ADD Transactions, PZ03-REPORT PAYMENT VOUCHER TOTALS.


JUMPS                                ADD Transactions                       KEYER ID: MH
Data
Collection                PZ03-REPORT PAYMENT VOUCHER TOTALS                    ADSN: 5040
v3.3 c09                                                                         Cycle: A1
                                                                               Tran. Nr: 13



        DATE-VOU                  [930901]
        GOV-AGENCY                [A]
        ACCT-ADSN                 [5040]        ACCUM-TOTAL-AMT         [00000002000]
        VOU-NR                    [PA000001]
        VOU-TOT-AMT               [00000002000]
        PAYROLL-NR                [    ]
        CLEAR-ACCT-ID             [510]
                                  Enter INPUT SOURCE to accept total or
                                  Hit F6 to start over or
                                  Hit Esc to return to menu.



Hit F6 to Start Over
Hit Esc to Avoid Adding                                               INPUT SOURCE [MH]
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  137


Figure 3.6. JUMPS Data Collection III, Correct Selection.


                                 JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                    CORRECT SELECTION
     v3.3 c 07                                                         KEYER ID:      MH
                                                                          ADSN:      5038
                                                                           Cycle:      A2
                                                                         Tran. Nr:      4




        Use PgDn PgUp for next or prior transaction


        Hit Esc or X to EXIT                                TRAN NR. [ ]
138                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.7. JUMPS Data Collection III, Delete Transaction.


                                 JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                   DELETE TRANSACTION
      v3.3 c 07                                                    KEYER ID:      MH
                                                                      ADSN:      5038
                                                                       Cycle:      A2
                                                                     Tran. Nr:      4




        Use PgDn PgUp for next or prior transaction
        Hit Esc or X to EXIT                                     TRAN NR. [ ]
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    139


Figure 3.8. DELETE Transactions, FL03-REPORT COMBAT ZONE TAX EXCLUSION.


JUMPS                              DELETE Transactions            KEYER ID:   MH
Data
Collection          FL03-REPORT COMBAT ZONE TAX EXCLUSION            ADSN: 5038
v3.3 c 07                                                             Cycle: A2
                                                                    Tran. Nr: 3


             SSAN    [333333333]
             NAME    [KKKKK]


             DATE-START             [930901]
             DATE-STOP              [930902]
             WAGE-CZ-XCLSN          [1]




                                                               INPUT SOURCE [MH]


                             DELETE this transaction (Y/N) ?
140                                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.9. JUMPS Data Collection III, View Selection (1).


                                JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                   VIEW SELECTION (1)
      v3.3 c 07



                     START at the 1st ?       enter Y or N................................N


                     STARTING TRANSACTION NUMBER......................




                                       Hit Esc to return to menu.




Figure 3.10. JUMPS Data Collection III, View Selection (2).


                                JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                   VIEW SELECTION (2)
      v3.3 c 07


                  START at the 1st ?      enter Y or N................................N


                  STARTING TRANSACTION NUMBER.....................0001


                  ENTER ENDING TRANSACTION NUMBER OR
                  HIT ENTER FOR LAST TRANSACTION NUMBER


                                       Hit Esc to return to menu.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  141


Figure 3.11. JUMPS Data Collection III, Print Selection (1).


                                 JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                    PRINT SELECTION (1)
     v3.3 c 07



                         START at the 1st ?   enter Y or N...............................




                                     Hit Esc to return to menu.




Figure 3.12. JUMPS Data Collection III, Print Selection (2).


                                 JUMPS DATA COLLECTION III
                                    PRINT SELECTION (2)
     v3.3 c 07



                         START at the 1st ?   enter Y or N...........................N


                         STARTING TRANSACTION NUMBER.................




                                     Hit Esc to return to menu.
142                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.13. Sign-On Screen.


                               SIGN-ON SCREEN


Enter user information:                            VTAM Address: L0A4AFMA
                                                                  TIN: 30064
User-ID ==>
Password ==>
New Password ==>
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    143


Figure 3.14. Application Selection Screen.


                                APPLICATION SELECTION SCREEN


THIS IS A US GOVERNMENT COMPUTER SYSTEM - USAGE IS SUBJECT TO MONITORING.
TSS7000I JCHMU00 LAST-USED 23 SEP 93 12:49 SYSTEM=5932 FACILITY=CICSJ3


User-ID: JCHMU00                             Organization: JGR             VTAM Address: L0A4AFMA
Name: MARVIN U HAWKINS                       Phone: (303) 676-6243



Command ==>


Use TAB key to position cursor next to an application, then use S to select it.


-      TSOSY3            ACTIVE          -        MULTI-SESSION
-      TSOSY2            ACTIVE
-      TSOSYI            ACTIVE
-      TAO/MAIL          ACTIVE
-      CICS01            ACTIVE
-      CICSJ1            ACTIVE
-      CICSJ2            ACTIVE
S      CICSJ3            ACTIVE
-      CICSR3            ACTIVE
-      CICSJ5            ACTIVE
-      IDMS4             ACTIVE


PF1=HELP              PF3-EXIT
144                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.15. Jumps Online Processing System (ADSN: 3862).


                          JUMPS ONLINE PROCESSING SYSTEM
                                    ADSN: 3862
ENTER       FORMAT ID
            ACTION IND
NOTE:       X IN FORMAT ID TO EXIT FUNCTION
            PF1 FOR HELP
            PF2 FOR UNVERIFIED TRANS (PRINT-VIEW-CORRECT-DELETE)
UPDATE      10-03        DATED 930928 IS NOW COMPLETE


CYCLE GW IS OPEN WITH 0000 TRANSACTIONS.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          145


Figure 3.16. Jumps Online Processing System.


                            JUMPS ONLINE PROCESSING SYSTEM        JHLP


THE FOLLOWING FUNCTIONS ARE AVAILABLE FROM A BLANK CICS SCREEN:


          JOPS - JUMPS TRANSACTION PROMPTING FORMATS


          JOVD - VIEW OR DELETE UNVERIFIED TRANSACTIONS


       JQEV - VIEW AND VERIFICATION OF TRANSACTIONS. INCLUDES
CORRECTION AND DELETION OF VERIFIED OR AGENT INPUT TRANSACTIONS


          JUPD - REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS


        JOLV - DELIVER FILE-TRANSFERRED TRANSACTIONS TO JOPS
SYSTEM. (TO BE USED AFTER 'SENDDATA')


                                    PRESS CLEAR TO EXIT
146                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.17. Unverified Transactions Menu.


                           UNVERIFIED TRANSACTIONS MENU


                                        ADSN: (1111)


                                             CYCLE     TRANS THRU TRANS



DO YOU WISH TO: ( _ )    PRINT               (_____)   (_____)    (_____)
                (_)      VIEW                (_____)   (_____)    (_____)
                (_)      CORRECT             (_____)   (_____)
                (_)      DELETE
                (_)      EXIT




   ENTER U IN PRINT OR VIEW OPTION IF YOU WANT ONLY THOSE TRANS YOU INPUT.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  147


Figure 3.18. Start Basic Allowance For Subsistence (BAS).


                   START BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR SUBSISTENCE (BAS)            JOEE


4001
SSAN
NAME
DATE-START
SUBS-ALW-TYPE
QTR-DAY-START


            PF6 TO CANCEL TRANS                             INPUT SOURCE
            X IN NEXT REQUEST TO EXIT                       NEXT REQUEST 4001
148                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.19. Generalized Format.


                                   GENERALIZED FORMAT                        JOGN


PE05
SSAN
NAME
        CC    2        3        4        5        6
              012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567




        PF6 TO CANCEL TRANS                                 INPUT SOURCE
        X IN NEXT REQUEST TO EXIT                           NEXT REQUEST PE05
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            149


Figure 3.20. Report HFP CZ-LV Balance.


                           REPORT HFP CZ-LV BALANCE                  JOKE


     BS03
*1   SSAN
*2   NAME


*3   ARV-HFP
*4   DEPRT-HFP




    PF6 TO CANCEL TRANS                           *5     INPUT SOURCE
    X IN NEXT REQUEST TO EXIT                            NEXT REQUEST BS03
1-ZAI SVC-MBR-SSAN WRONG
2-ZAM NAME-PERS-1ST-FIVE WRONG
3-ZHA DATE ARRRIVE HFP AREA MUST BY YYMMDD, DATE MUST BE
    PRESENT FOR START AND %
4-ZHB DATE DEPART HFP AREA MUST BE YYMMDD, DATE MUST BE
    PRESENT FOR STOP AND %
ADDITIONAL ERRS:    5-BCB
150                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.21. Quality Examination Menu.


                          QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU                    JQEV
                                 ADSN:      (3862)
                                 CYCLE      TRANS THRU TRANS
---------------------------------------------------------
DO YOU WISH TO: ( _ ) PRINT      (_____)    (_____)       (_____)
                ( _ ) VIEW       (_____)    (_____)       (_____)
                ( _ ) CORRECT    (_____)    (_____)
                ( _ ) VERIFY     (_____)
                ( _ ) DELETE
                ( _ ) DISPLAY CYCLE SUMMARY
                ( _ ) EXIT
UPDATE 10-04    DATED            930929     IS NOW COMPLETE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             151


Figure 3.22. Cycle Summary.


                                CYCLE SUMMARY                        JQEM


                                      ADSN: 5037


                              CYCLE   TRANSACTIONS


                                KO          100 *
                                51          400




                             ------        -----
                             TOTAL         500
                             * UNVERIFIED CYCLE
**** END-OF-FILE REACHED     ****
X-EXIT PF OR <ENTER>-FORWARD PB-BACK T-TOP E-END ====> NEXT-REQUEST (____)
152                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.23. Personal Data - Privacy Act Of 1974.


                        PERSONAL DATA - PRIVACY ACT OF 1974                 JQEW
              DATA     COLLECTION      INPUT    -   PCN: UH099CA46
                      ADSN: 3880               CYCLE NUMBER: KA
              2    2    3    3    4    4    5     5   6 6 6
              012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567



AADO1         GURLE93100100001   6297190326    S 7100126              LN0001 01
1AD01                                      DERRICK D GURLEY           LN0001 01
0PE03 DELE    LANTA930929A     P00001000050005930293 MH0002 02
09804         EWENSATGDACB930728; AMDDABN930728.                      LX0003 03
A9804         MOEN BRC0101DABW921001, DADI930930.                     LX0004 03
19804                N9 DUE ISP 921001 PER 2503 UD 1003               LX0004 03
A9704         MOEN    25M940920               GM930920
19704                N9.                                              LX0005 03
09804         EBERTBRC0101PAAL300000, PAAZ0.                          LX0006 03
A9704         EBERT25M940920                   GL940921               LX0007 03
19704                N9.                                              LX0007 03
02513         EBERT1041                                               LX0008 03
A9804         RUSSIBAD0103ALAA130000; BP30101ALAD80050, ALAC10100;    BPLX0009 03
01-JCVGA00    02-JCHMU00       03-JCKMO00     04-JCETO00 05-JCAWR00


X-EXIT PF OR <ENTER>-FORWARD PB-BACK T-TOP E-END ===> NEXT-REQUEST (___)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     153


Figure 3.24. QE Correct Transactions.


                           QE CORRECT TRANSACTIONS                             JQEC


          TO CORRECT TRANSACTION, POSITION CURSOR AND REKEY:


         ADSN: 1111             CYCLE NUM: DV      TRANS NUM: 0002


         1       2        3       4        5        6      6
       67890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567   ADSN
0 BS03 150768975GRACE9309299309303                                      1111
       ===========================7==========================




ENTER NEXT CYCLE-TRANS YOU WISH TO CORRECT =====> CYCLE (____) TRANS (______)
     <ENTER> TO ACCEPT CHANGE      <PF3> TO END REQUEST
     'X' IN CYCLE TO EXIT          <PF6> TO RESTORE RECORD
CYCLE DIV TRANS 0001 PROCESSED
154                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.25. Quality Examination Menu.


                           QUALITY EXAMINATION MENU                         JQ
                                 ADSN:         (1111)
                                 CYCLE        TRANS THRU TRANS
---------------------------------------------------------
DO YOU WISH TO: ( _ ) PRINT      (_____)       (_____)      (_____)
                ( _ ) VIEW       (_____)       (_____)      (_____)
                ( _ ) CORRECT    (_____)       (_____)


                    ( _ ) VERIFY         (_____)


                    ( _ ) DELETE
                    ( _ ) DISPLAY CYCLE SUMMARY


                    ( _ ) EXIT
UPDATE                                   DATED     IS NOW COMPLETE


CYCLE DT VERIFIED WITH 0001 TOTAL TRANSACTIONS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                   155


Figure 3.26. QE Delete Transactions.


                                  QE DELETE TRANSACTIONS    JQED


CYCLE          TRANS
  KA            0002              LANTA   PE03    DELETED
____           _____
____           _____
____           _____
____           _____
____           _____
____           _____
____           _____
____           _____
____           _____
 X TO EXIT
156                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.27. QE Delete Transactions.


¦B                               QE DELETE TRANSACTIONS                        J


CYCLE           TRANS
 KA              0002           *****    ****      TRANSACTIONS NOT FOUND
____            _____
____            _____
____            _____
____            _____
____            _____
____            _____
____            _____
____            _____
____            _____
 X TO EXIT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                157


Figure 3.28. QE Delete Transactions.


                                QE DELETE TRANSACTIONS   JQED


CYCLE              TRANS


____               _____
____               _____
____               _____
____               _____
____               _____
____               _____
____               _____
____               _____
____               _____
 X TO EXIT




NO TRANSACTIONS DELETED - FUNCTION CANCELED
158                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.29. Request Update Results.


                                       REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS                   JUPD
                                         ADSN 1111


      UPDATE     10-06                 PROCESS DATE   931001 IS AVAILABLE


           ENTER REQUEST: _


                 1 - CURRENT UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                 2 - CURRENT UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                 3 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                 4 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                 5 - VIEW UPDATE INFORMATION


                 6- CHANGE OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATION(S)



                 X - EXIT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                   159


Figure 3.30. Request Update Results.


                                       REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS               JUPD
                                         ADSN 1111


      UPDATE     10-07                 PROCESS DATE   931005 IS AVAILABLE


           ENTER REQUEST: _


                 1 - CURRENT UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                 2 - CURRENT UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                 3 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                 4 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                 5 - VIEW UPDATE INFORMATION


                 6- CHANGE OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATION(S)


                 X - EXIT


JOB TO RECEIVE UPDATE RESULTS SUBMITTED AT 060744
160                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.31. Update Report Selection.


                               UPDATE REPORT SELECTION                        JUPF
                                      ADSN 1111


SELECT REPORT CODES (A-H) :                          (BLANK FOR ALL)


                A - UH099CA03           DOCUMENT TRANSMITTAL LIST *
                B - UH099CA04           LEAVE TRANSACTIONS
                C - UH099CA05           PROCESSED TRANSACTIONS *
                D - UH099CA06           REJECTED TRANSACTIONS *
                E - UH099CA07           RECYCLED TRANSACTIONS *
                F - UH099CA08           MANAGEMENT NOTICES
                G - UH099CA10           ONE-TIME PAY AUTHORIZATIONS
                H - UH099CA11           TRANSACTIONS ORIGINATED BY OTHERS


SELECT CYCLES                                     (BLANK FOR ALL CYCLES)


(* ) CYCLE SELECTIONS APPLIES TO THESE REPORTS ONLY


                PF6 - CANCEL REQUEST
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             161


Figure 3.32. Update Selection.


                                 UPDATE SELECTION                     JUPE


                                    ADSN 1111


SELECT DESIRED UPDATE:


              UPDATE                            PROCESSING DATE


       1-     10-05                                 930930


       2-     10-04                                 930929


       3-     10-03                                 930928


       4-     10-02                                 930928


MMPA FILE WILL BE CLOSED FROM APPROX 1100-1300 MDT TODAY FOR RELOAD


       PF6 - CANCEL REQUEST
162                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.33. Update Information.


                                   UPDATE INFORMATION                        JUPG


                                       ADSN 1111


        UPDATE                     PROCESSING DATE


        10-06                           931001


        10-05                           930930


        10-04                           930929


        10-03                           930928


        10-02                           930928


MMPA FILE WILL BE CLOSED FROM APPROX 1100 - 1300 MDT TODAY FOR RELOAD


        <CLEAR> WILL RETURN TO UPDATE RESULTS MENU
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          163


Figure 3.34. Change Output Destination.


                             CHANGE OUTPUT DESTINATION                           JUPH


                                          ADSN 1111



     PCN NO.       PCN TITLE                                 ADDRESS      NEW ADDRESS


     UH099CA03     DOCUMENT TRANSMITTAL LIST                     6
     UH099CA04     LEAVE TRANSACTIONS                            9
     UH099CA05     PROCESSED TRANSACTIONS                        9
     UH099CA06     REJECTED TRANSACTIONS                         9
     UH099CA07     RECYCLED TRANSACTIONS                         9
     UH099CA08     MANAGEMENT NOTICES                            9
     UH099CA10     ONE-TIME PAY AUTHORIZATIONS                   9
     UH099CA11     TRANSACTIONS ORIGINATED BY OTHERS             9


1=AFO11111      2=AFO11112      3=AFO11113      4=AFO11114   5=AFO11115     6=AFO11116



                                PF6 TO CANCEL REQUEST
164                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.35. Request Update Results.


                                       REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS                  JUPD


                                             ADSN 1111


UPDATE 10-07                   PROCESS DATE 931005 IS AVAILABLE


         ENTER REQUEST:


                1 - CURRENT UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                2 - CURRENT UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                3 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                4 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                5 - VIEW UPDATE INFORMATION


                6 - CHANGE OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATION(S)


                X - EXIT


OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATIONS CHANGED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            165


Figure 3.36. Change Output Destination ADSN.


                         CHANGE OUTPUT DESTINATION ADSN              JVSN


                                       ADSN: 1111


         ENTER ADSN FOR WHICH YOU WISH TO RECEIVE OUTPUT PRODUCTS:




                      CLEAR OR PF6 TO EXIT OR CANCEL REQUEST
166                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.37. Request Update Results.


                                REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS                    JUPD


                                       ADSN 4500


        UPDATE 10-09 PROCESS DATE 931007 IS AVAILABLE
ALL 10-10 DATA WILL GO INTO UPDATE 10-11. 10-10 WILL NOT BE RUN.


         ENTER REQUEST:


                 1 - CURRENT UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                 2 - CURRENT UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                 3 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (ALL REPORTS AND CYCLES)
                 4 - PREVIOUS UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS AND CYCLES)


                 5 - VIEW UPDATE INFORMATION


                 6 - CHANGE OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATION(S)


                 X - EXIT


ADSN OVERRIDE IN EFFECT - REQUEST OUTPUT FOR ABOVE ADSN
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          167


Figure 3.38. Update Results.


                                      UPDATE RESULTS
                         6 - CHANGE OUTPUT PRINTER DESTINATION(S)
                                         X - EXIT

PREVIOUS REQUEST HAS BEEN CANCELED

                                               HELP MENU
     PRESS (F1)                         To display keyboard layout.

     PRESS (F2)                To perform printer functions (CA1, PA2, PA2).

     PRESS (F7)                     To select printer redirection options.

     PRESS (F9)                   To terminate emulation (sessions held).

     PRESS (F10)                          To return to emulation.

                                 PRINTER REDIRECTION SCREEN #1

                                        PRINTER REDIRECTION

     PRESS (F1)         SEND data for unit 03 to file PRNTER02, port is LPT1.



     PRESS (F10)                       To return to help main menu.

                                 PRINTER REDIRECTION SCREEN #2

                                        PRINTER REDIRECTION

     PRESS (F1)        SEND data for unit 03 to (file is PRNTER02), port is LPT1.

     PRESS (F20)         CLOSE unit 03's current file PRNTER02, port is LPT1.

     PRESS (F10)                       To return to help main menu.
168                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.39. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #1.


                             IRMAREMOTE Re-direct Screen #1


              IRMAremote SNA - Control Panel for Printer on Parallel Port 1
               (C) Copyright 1988, Digital Communications Associates, Inc.


Ready         IN SESSION        CHECK          STATUS             SCS MODE    Page Size
                                                                              Lines Col.
HOLD PRINT       8 LPI          DBL SPACE      DUAL CASE          REPRINT     66 132


COMPRESSED      ENHANCED        DBL WIDTH  OVERRIDE     IGNORE    DISABLE
   PRINT           PRINT           PRINT  HOST FORMAT LOCAL COPY DOS PRINT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     169


Figure 3.40. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #2.


                                   IRMAREMOTE Re-direct Screen #2


                  IRMAremote SNA - Control Panel for Printer on Parallel Port 1
                   (C) Copyright 1988, Digital Communications Associates, Inc.


Ready             IN SESSION           CHECK           STATUS       SCS MODE      Page Size
                                                                                  Lines Col.
HOLD PRINT           8 LPI             DBL SPACE DUAL CASE          REPRINT       66 132


COMPRESSED ENHANCED                    DBL WIDTH   OVERRIDE           IGNORE   DISABLE
 PRINT       PRINT                       PRINT   HOST FORMAT        LOCAL COPY DOS PRINT



      Enter output print file name:     prnter02.dat


   Append to existing file? (y/n):       n


 Print while writing to file? (y/n):     n


Checkpoint the output file between
             Local copies? (y/n):        n
                Brackets? (y/n):         n
                   Binds? (y/n):         n
170                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.41. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #3.


                                        IRMAREMOTE Re-direct Screen #3


                     IRMAremote SNA - Control Panel for Printer on Parallel Port 1
                      (C) Copyright 1988, Digital Communications Associates, Inc.


Ready                   IN SESSION               CHECK          STATUS               SCS MODE   Page Size
                                                                                                Lines Col.
  HOLD PRINT                8 LPI               DBL SPACE     DUAL CASE              REPRINT     66    132
        F1                    F2                   F3              F4                   F5            F6
 COMPRESSED             ENHANCED            DBL WIDTH          OVERRIDE              IGNORE      DISABLE
        PRINT                PRINT                 PRINT    HOST FORMAT         LOCAL COPY      DOS PRINT
        F7                    F8                   F9              F10                Alt F1      Alt F2


Output: prnter02.dat                               0
        F = Form feed
        L = Line feed
        R = Reload printer parameters
             (printer must be at top of form)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   171


Figure 3.42. IRMAREMOTE Re-Direct Screen #4.


                              IRMAREMOTE Re-direct Screen #4


                IRMAremote SNA - Control Panel for Printer on Parallel Port 1
                 (C) Copyright 1988, Digital Communications Associates, Inc.


Ready           IN SESSION     CHECK           STATUS            SCS MODE       Page Size
                                                                                Lines Col.
HOLD PRINT         8 LPI       DBL SPACE       DUAL CASE         REPRINT        66 132
   F1


COMPRESSED       ENHANCED       DBL WIDTH  OVERRIDE     IGNORE                     DISABLE
 PRINT              PRINT          PRINT  HOST FORMAT LOCAL COPY                  DOS PRINT


Output : prnter02.dat          15479
172                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.43. Example of DROT A and C.


                                     EXAMPLE OF DROT A AND C



      This process requires a disk drive letter specification.


      Examples:    DROT C
                    or
                   DROT A


         DROT C                indicates that the DROT program is being executed from the hard
                drive and the input DTL is on the hard drive.
         DROT A            indicates that the DROT program is being executed from the A:
                floppy drive and the input DTL is on the B: floppy drive.




Figure 3.44. JUMPS DROT, Main Menu.


                                              JUMPS DROT                           v2.0
                                              MAIN MENU




                         X            EXIT                  to MS-DOS


                         C            CREATE                DROT from DTL


                         P            PRINT                 DROT - all or a selected unit




                                       Select LETTER listed above
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              173


Figure 3.45. JUMPS DROT, Create Selection.


                                          JUMPS DROT                        v2.0 c 01
                                       CREATE SELECTION




                           Is the DTL data located on drive B: or C: ?


                                              Hit B or C


                                       or Esc to return to menu.




Figure 3.46. End User Level Options.



JYBM                      DJMS PRINTER AND ADSN CONTROL BY USERID


           OPTION:                        USERID: JCMMM00


              1   VIEW


              2   UPDATE


              X   EXIT


<PF1>: HELP                               <PF2>: EXIT CICS               <PF3>: EXIT
174                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.47. View of USERID.


JYBB                DJMS PRINTER AND ADSN CONTROL BY USERID VIEW


            USERID: JCMMM00
            ADSN:    3880
            PRINTER: AB29


<PF1>: HELP                           <PF2>: EXIT CICS       <PF3>: RETURN TO MENU




Figure 3.48. TASO Level Options.


JYBM                 DJMS PRINTER AND ADSN CONTROL BY USERID


OPTION:                             USERID:


          1 VIEW
          2 UPDATE
          3 ADD
          4 DELETE
          5 PRINT ADSN:            0000
          X EXIT


<PF1>: HELP                         <PF2>: EXIT CICS     <PF3>: EXIT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                175


Figure 3.49. Instructions for DD Form 2875 Completion.


                                      DD FORM 2875 COMPLETION


There are three pages to the DD Form 2875. The following instructions must be carefully followed in
order for the requested DJMS security action to be taken.


All three pages will be typed; any form hand written will be returned without action.


Instructions for DD Form 2875 SAAR page 1 and 2, April 2005 version
Type of Request: This form is used for initial access. Enter an ‘x’ in the box to the left of initial.
User ID: Complete user-ID or for (initial) request the first 5 positions are required of the location user ID.
Date: Enter the current date of the request.
System Name: Enter the system name for which access is requested.
Location: Enter the location of system/database, the user requires access to.


                                                   PART I


Block 1:        Name: enter the user’s full name (last, first, initial)
Block 2:       Social Security Number: enter the user’s full SSN
Block 3:        Organization: enter the user’s unit name
Block 4:        Office symbol/department: enter the user’s unit office symbol or dept name
Block 5:       Phone: enter the user’s DSN or commercial phone number
Block 6:        Official e-mail address: enter the user’s official email address this is mandatory.
Block 7:       Job title or rank: enter the user’s job title or rank.
Block 8:        Official mailing address: enter the user’s official mailing address.
Block 9:        Citizenship: enter us or FN (Foreign National)
Block 10:       Designation of person: place an ‘x’ next to the appropriate type for the user
military or civilian or contractor.
Block 10a:      IA Training and Awareness Certification requirements: the user is responsible for
               indicating when annual IA training was completed. Most information assurance
               manager offices will have the information. Per CJCSM 6510.01 (page a-b-3), "all
               users will train annually. … system access will not be authorized without
176                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             appropriate documented training." If training has been completed, enter an ‘x’ in
             the box and the entire date in date.
Block 11:    User signature and date. The user must sign the block and enter current date.


                                               PART II


Block 13:    Justification for access: leave this block blank and add this information to the DD
             2875 Continuation Form. (block 21)
Block 14:    Type of access required: enter an ‘x’ for the type of access required.
             “Authorized” means “functional” user. “Privileged” means system programmer,
             application developer, system administrator, security administrator, etc.
Block 15:    User requires access to: enter an “x” in the block for unclassified
Block 16:    Verification of need to know: the supervisor must enter an ‘x’ in this bock and
             accept responsibility for the user.
Block 16a:   Access expiration date: complete this field only if the user is a contractor.
Block 17:    Supervisor typed name: enter the supervisor’s full name. The supervisor on the
             DD Form 2875 and the supervisor on the DD 2875 continuation sheet must be the
             same.
Block 18:    Supervisor’s signature: the supervisor must sign this block.
Block 19:    Date: enter the current date.
Block 20:    Supervisor’s org/dept: enter the supervisor’s organization or department.
Block 20a:   Supervisor e-mail address: enter the supervisor’s email address.
Block 20b:   Phone number: enter the supervisor’s telephone number.
Block 21:    Signature of information owner/OPR (FDO/IO): leave this blank.
Block 21a:   Phone number: leave this blank.
Block 21b:   Date: leave this blank.
Block 22:    Signature of IAO or appointee: the trusted agent/TASO must sign this block.
Block 23:    Organization/department: enter the trusted agent/TASO organization or
             department.
Block 24:    Phone number: enter the trusted agent/TASO telephone number.
Block 25:    Date: enter the current date.
Block 26a:   Name: enter the same name as on first page (mandatory)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               177


Block 26b:     Social Security Number: enter the user’s SSN as shown on the first page
               (mandatory).
Block 27:      Leave this blank unless you need it to add additional information.


                                                   PART III


The security manager accomplishes this section.


Block 28:      Enter the user’s type of investigation.
Block 28a:     Enter the user’s date of investigation.
Block 28b:     Enter the user’s clearance level.
Block 29:      Enter the security manager’s full name.
Block 30:      Enter the security manager’s DSN telephone number. If no DSN telephone
               number, enter the commercial telephone number instead.
Block 31:      The security manager must sign this block.
Block 32:      The security manager must date this block using the current date.


                                                   PART IV


Leave all these blocks blank.


Instructions for the completion of DD Form 2875 continuation sheet (page 3) for block 27, May 2004 ver-
sion:


Block 1:       Action: if the request is for a brand new user id, enter an ‘x’ in the box to the left
               of initial. If the request is to modify an existing user id, enter an ‘x’ in the box to
               the left of modify. If the request is to delete the entire user id, enter an ‘x’ in the
               box to the left of deletion.
Block 2:       USERID: for an initial request, enter the first 5 positions of the new user id/site
               id (i.e. e4800, j4008, n7111, etc). For a modification or a deletion request, enter
               the user full DJMS/DMO or CMS user ID.
Block 3:       SSN: enter the user’s social security number.
Block 4:       Name: enter the user’s full name (last, first and middle initial.)
178                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Block 5:      Telephone: enter the user’s telephone number (DSN and commercial) and
              internet e-mail address.
Block 6:      Invoice accounting code: leave this block blank.
Block 7:      Status: if the user is a contractor, enter an ‘x’ in the box to the left of contractor.
              If the user is a federal employee, enter an ‘x’ to the left of federal employee.
Block 7a:     Foreign National: if the user is a foreign national, enter an ‘x’ to the left of yes.
              If the user is not a foreign national, enter an ‘x’ to the left of no.
Block 8:      Organization: enter the user’s complete work mailing address.
Block 9a:     Enter the trusted agent/TASO signature block. The trusted agent/TASO must sign
              above the signature block.
Block 9b:     Internet e-mail: enter the trusted agent/TASO work email address.
Block 9c:     Date: enter the current date.
Block 10a:    Signature and typed name of supervisor: enter the supervisor’s signature block
              (name, grade/rank, title). The supervisor must sign above the signature block.
Block 10b:    Date: enter the current date.
Block 11a:    User signature: user must sign accepting accountability.
Block 11b:    Date: user must enter current date.
Block 12:     Facility: leave all of these blocks blank.
Block 13:     Job acid: leave this block blank.
Block 14:     Action code: for a deletion (removing the entire user id), leave this block blank.
              If access is being added, enter an ‘a’ into this block next to the access being
              added. If access is being removed, enter a ‘d’ into this block next to the access
              being removed- enter a=add c-change d=delete. Remember that an action code
              must be present for each action. You can add and remove access using the same
              form.
Block 15:     Profile: enter the profiles that need to be added and/or removed. You must enter
              the profile; verbs/OTRANS will not be accepted.
Block 16a&b: Data set name: leave this block blank.
Block 17:     Access type: leave this block blank.
Block 18:     Time frame: leave this block blank.
Block 19:     ODMS CICS OTRAN: leave this block blank.
Block 20:     FDO initials: leave this block blank.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   179


Block 21:      Remarks/justification: enter a justification for access. Must be a complete
               meaningful justification.
Block 22:      Leave this block blank.
Block 23:      Leave this block blank.


If form is not completed correctly, it will be returned without action.
180                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 4

                                                 REJECTS

4.1. Description. The daily register of rejects (DROR) is used for control and resolution of all DFAS-DE
rejects. The DROR lists DFAS-DE rejects one time only as a separate product. Rejects will also print on
the daily register of transactions (DROT) as information for the input source.

4.2. FSO Actions:
      4.2.1. Pay Service and Control clerk:
         4.2.1.1. Receives DROR and sends it and source documents to Quality Examination.
         4.2.1.2. If corrections are required to source documents which have already been submitted to
         DFAS-DE/CWLR, sends corrected source document with AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal
         (JUMPS), to DFAS-DE/CWLR (see Chapter 2). Identify document transmittal listing (DTL) on
         which original document was submitted through use of the transmission number and the outgoing
         transmission log.
      4.2.2. Quality Examination:
         4.2.2.1. Determines cause of error, corrective actions needed, and who is to make corrections.
         4.2.2.2. If corrections are required to source documents originated outside FSO, returns docu-
         ments to input source through Pay Service and Control. Input source makes necessary correc-
         tions, then sends corrected documents to Quality Examination.
         4.2.2.3. When corrections are required to source documents originated within FSO, instructs the
         Pay Service and Control Clerk to correct original and FSO-retained copies.
         4.2.2.4. Corrects or cancels improper transactions when appropriate.
         4.2.2.5. Determines whether rejected transactions, received after member's departure on perma-
         nent change of station (PCS) or temporary duty (TDY), can be corrected and resubmitted. If trans-
         actions can be corrected, take action in (1) through (4) above. If transactions cannot be corrected,
         advise gaining FSO by DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization. Give full explanation
         including reasons for reject and reasons why reject could not be cleared by losing FSO.
         4.2.2.6. Ensure error that caused the reject is corrected and new transaction is input.
         4.2.2.7. Annotates code for action resolving reject in FSO disposition area on right-hand side of
         DROR. Codes and description for each are:


                 CODE           DESCRIPTION
                 1              Corrected and resubmitted.
                 2              Error in source document returned to input source.
                 3              Transaction erroneous, not resubmitted.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            181


4.3. Rejects to DFAS-DE/FJ. Transactions that cannot be processed because the effective date is outside
immediate access storage (IAS), or the condition of the file does not allow processing, reject to
DFAS-DE/FJ for action. These transactions appear in section 3 of the daily transaction record (DTR) with
error code ZBD and the error code(s) with which the transaction rejected to DFAS-DE. An XZ03 notice
will be produced to identify the actual error code of the rejected transaction. These rejects will be con-
trolled by the Automated Case Control System (ACCS) by systematically establishing an ACCS case at
DFAS-DE/FJ.

4.4. ACCS Viewing. In order to view ACCS cases, the following instructions apply:
   4.4.1. Key in JCCM, press enter, and the Base Inquiry Request Menu is displayed. This menu has
   three options:
       4.4.1.1. Individual SSN.
       4.4.1.2. Individual SSN and date received.
       4.4.1.3. SVC-ADSN (FSO).
   4.4.2. When a SSN only (Option 1) is keyed in, the Base Inquiry Open Case List is displayed. This
   screen lists all open cases for the member. Five options are available for this screen:
       4.4.2.1. PF2 to exit
       4.4.2.2. PF3 to return to menu screen.
       4.4.2.3. PF7 to scroll-backward.
       4.4.2.4. PF8 to scroll-forward.
       4.4.2.5. 'S' (in first position) enter-key to view individual record screen.
   4.4.3. When a SSN and date received (Option 2) are keyed in, the Base Inquiry Open Case List is dis-
   played but only displays the particular case for that date and no other cases.
   4.4.4. Upon entering the option "S," the screen will display the Base Inquiry Member Data which
   contains the following:
       4.4.4.1. The Z or B record (B signifies a case that was transferred from one 38XX Pseudo ADSN
       to another).
       4.4.4.2. A memo record containing entries input by DFAS-DE personnel advising you of any
       actions they may be taking to work the case. For example: "Statement of service requested 10 Feb
       92" or "COLA rates ordered 20 Jan 92."
       4.4.4.3. The rejected transaction image for management notices.
       4.4.4.4. Any cases closed on the member in the last 45 days (space will only allow display of last
       seven cases).
       4.4.4.5. Three options are available for this screen:
           4.4.4.5.1. PF2 to exit.
           4.4.4.5.2. PF3 to return to menu screen.
           4.4.4.5.3. PF5 to return to inventory screen.
182                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      4.4.5. When your SVC ADSN (FSO) (Option 3) is keyed in, the Base Inquiry Open Case List will be
      displayed with all the ACCS cases input by your ADSN currently being worked at DFAS-DE; the
      same selection criteria that applies to Option 1 is available for this option also.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              183


                                               Chapter 5

                                              INQUIRIES

5.1. Description. Base-level terminals are used to inquire against a member's master military pay
account (MMPA) maintained at DFAS-DE.
   5.1.1. The principal uses of MMPA inquiries are to answer member inquiries, resolve pay problems,
   determine amounts for casual or partial payments, validate data on input transactions, and ensure
   proper separation processing and final separation payments.
   5.1.2. Sign-on procedures are contained in Chapter 3, paragraph 3.15. Once signed on, enter
   "JJAA", then "ENTER", on first blank screen.

5.2. CICS MMPA Inquiry Procedures:
   5.2.1. Inquiry Request. The MMPA inquiries format is a fill-in-the-blanks prompting format (Figure
   5.1.). The prompting format is used to obtain either a screen display or a printout, with repeat options.
   The cursor is pre-positioned at the SSN field. As each field is keyed-in, the cursor automatically
   moves to the next field. If an input field is to be skipped, depress the forward tab key and the cursor
   will move to the next field. After a request has been entered and results displayed, the blank prompt-
   ing format reappears with the cursor again positioned at the password field. An explanation of each
   field in the prompting format follows:
      5.2.1.1. SSN OR CMD functions are:
          5.2.1.1.1. PAGING. Use the paging commands on Figure 5.1. to display the additional
          screens if a data response fills more than one screen. Password is not needed for paging.
          5.2.1.1.2. "X". Use the letter X in the first position of the SSN to clear both the screen and
          memory. For compliance with Privacy Act requirements, it is important that you clear both
          memory and screen before you leave the terminal.
      5.2.1.2. SSN. Use this nine-position field for the SSN of the member. On successive inquiries to
      the same MMPA, you need not reenter the SSN; just tab over the SSN field and enter new request.
      5.2.1.3. REQ. Use this three-position field to identify the MMPA data you need. You can request
      a predetermined table of data, an MMPA category, or an individual FORMAT-ID entry.
          5.2.1.3.1. For table requests, enter T and the two-position table number.
          5.2.1.3.2. Enter category (Figure 5.3.) in the first position. Enter history indicator (Figure
          5.1.) in the last position.
          5.2.1.3.3. For FORMAT-ID request, enter FORMAT-ID in the first two positions and the his-
          tory indicator in the last position.
          5.2.1.3.4. The history indicator allows you to specify whether you want to see open and cur-
          rent-month-closed, or history entries, or combinations of these entries. Use the letter 'O' for
          open data or leave blank for all data. Other codes are also available for your use.
          5.2.1.3.5. On successive inquiries for the same REQ data but for different SSN, you need not
          reenter the REQ field. Instead, depress ENTER key after entering new SSN.
184                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         5.2.1.4. PRNT IND. This one-position field is used to request a print of MMPA data. The P can
         be entered on the initial request, or it can be entered after the data has been viewed on the screen.
         5.2.1.5. NAME. Used by DFAS-DE only, this field identifies the organization and individual
         where centrally prepared MMPA prints are to be sent.
         5.2.1.6. MMPA entries are displayed in FORMAT-ID sequence, grouped by open entries and
         closed entries. Closed entries are identified by a dash (-) appearing after the FORMAT-ID.
         5.2.1.7. If the requested data will fill more than one screen of data, the first page appears after the
         remaining pages are formatted and counted; therefore, the first page will initially read "Page 1 of
         ??". The question marks will be replaced by total pages available.
      5.2.2. History MMPA Inquiries. MMPAs for December 1977 (includes July through December 1977)
      through current are also available on-line via the JJAA inquiry process. For MMPAs prior to July
      1977, a written request from the member or FSO must be submitted to DFAS-DE/CX. The following
      are instructions on accessing these MMPA histories:
         5.2.2.1. Once signed on to CICS, enter JJAA at the first blank screen, and press <PF4> to go to
         the special inquiries screen.
         5.2.2.2. Enter 4, and follow screen instructions to request either several MMPA histories for one
         member, or same history time frame for several members.
         5.2.2.3. The message ‘JOB XXXXXXXX HAS BEEN SUBMITTED’ will appear at the bottom
         of the screen when request is entered. MMPA prints will be directed to the printer associated with
         the VTAM address assigned to the terminal or PC used. This may be a local printer within the
         office or a central printer located outside the office.
         5.2.2.4. Those offices not having inquiry capability for retrieving a member’s history pay records
         can contact DFAS-DE/CX via telephone or written request.
      5.2.3. System Messages. When the system is unable to respond to an inquiry, a system message will
      appear on the screen. The message is usually self explanatory. Figure 5.4. lists system messages and
      actions required.

5.3. DJMS Standard Inquiry System (DSIS). DSIS is a windows 95/NT based, user-friendly system
for inquiry against the MMPA via a personal computer (PC). DSIS enables you to inquire the MMPA,
through the use of an icon in a windows environment. One complete MMPA, per request, will be down-
loaded.
      5.3.1. The left side of the Graphical User Interface (GUI), known as the tree, contains 8 main folders.
      The tree is the avenue to select the appropriate entry. All current MMPA entries are available for
      inquiry with DSIS. The eight main folders contain the following categories of information:
         5.3.1.1. Member information
         5.3.1.2. Entitlements
         5.3.1.3. Deductions
         5.3.1.4. Payments
         5.3.1.5. ID’s
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             185


       5.3.1.6. Allotments
       5.3.1.7. Status
       5.3.1.8. Remarks
   5.3.2. All data is displayed with English captions and descriptions, and an extensive on-line help
   facility is included.
   5.3.3. Figure 5.5. is a sample main screen and Figure 5.6. is a sample MMPA entry inquiry.

5.4. Inquiry Tables. An inquiry table is a predetermined set of MMPA entries which can be requested by
entering the three-position table number in the REQ field. (See Figure 5.5.)
   5.4.1. The tables are established by DFAS-DE. New or revised tables are mailed to FSO.
   5.4.2. Send FSO requests for new or revised tables to DFAS-DE/FJEP. State the purpose of the pro-
   posed table, estimate the daily usage at the requesting office, and list the preferred sequence of items
   to be displayed. Tables must have common requirements at most or all bases.

5.5. Release of Information From Military Pay Records. Privacy Act Rules governing the release of
information from DJMS are found in Chapter 82 of this volume.

5.6. Types of Inquiries:
   5.6.1. Routine inquiries are those that can be answered by viewing the MMPA.
   5.6.2. Other inquiries are, for example, requests for data before DJMS was implemented and ques-
   tions concerning data received as a result of an inquiry. The requester must be certain that the inquiry
   is clear and that all necessary information is included.

5.7. Source of Input. The FSO receives inquiries from sources outside finance. They include, but are
not limited to:
   5.7.1. Member.
   5.7.2. Member's dependent.
   5.7.3. HQ USAF.
   5.7.4. Other Department of Defense (DoD) agencies.
   5.7.5. Other agencies of the US Government.
   5.7.6. Service organizations.
   5.7.7. Individuals (interested parties with need to know).
   5.7.8. Military Personnel Flights (MPFs). Inquiries are limited to requests for formats (CAT I) or cat-
   egories that are the responsibility of the MPF for input to DJMS. All other inquiries must be made
   through the FSO.
186                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


5.8. Requests for Source Documents. All requests for copies of source documents must be in message
form and should be sent to DFAS-JBDM/DE, DSN 926-7557/8/9, with the following information:
      5.8.1. Member's SSN
      5.8.2. Member's full name.
      5.8.3. Input ADSN.
      5.8.4. Transmission number.
      5.8.5. Date of DTR or DTL.
      5.8.6. Transaction number (if transaction is a leave).
      5.8.7. Type of input (for example, BAS start, not 4001).
      5.8.8. Effective date(s) of transaction (if applicable). The only exceptions to this rule are requests
      from retired Air Force members or agencies outside the Air Force, who may request copies of source
      documents by letter. These requests must comply with the Privacy Act.

5.9. Transaction File. The transaction file lists processed, rejected and recycled transactions for each
member serviced by DJMS-AC. View this file on CICS similarly to the way the MMPA is viewed.
      5.9.1. Transactions are accumulated from each update by SSN. The transaction file is cumulative,
      showing rejects, recycles, and processed transactions in chronological sequence for each member ser-
      viced by DJMS-AC.
         5.9.1.1. Each update will display transactions in chronological sequence. Transactions are coded
         as E-Rejected, F-Partial Reject, G-Processed, J-Partial Processed, K-Processed By Others,
         L-Advance Transaction, and M-Recycle.
         5.9.1.2. The transaction file does not include management notices.
         5.9.1.3. Rejected and recycled transactions contain the reason and/or error codes for the particular
         reject and/or recycle. There can be up to six different codes for each reject or recycle. There is no
         narrative description; only the code is displayed.
         5.9.1.4. Recycled transactions with control code "M" will appear only once on the transaction file.
         It will recycle until it has processed. When it’s processed, it will show again.
         5.9.1.5. Advance transactions, control code "L" are treated like recycled transactions.
         5.9.1.6. Transactions are available for viewing for current plus four years before moving to his-
         tory.
      5.9.2. Access to transaction file:
         5.9.2.1. Sign on the CICSJ3. Key in "JJAM", JUMPS MMPA special inquiries, to access the
         main menu screen. Enter request option 5 for "PROCESSED TRANSACTION INQUIRY" (See
         Figure 5.9.).
         5.9.2.2. Enter a SSN, year and month for viewing (See Figure 5.10.).
             5.9.2.2.1. If only the SSN is entered, all records will be displayed. Default will be current
             month and current year.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              187


           5.9.2.2.2. If the SSN, year and month are entered, only transactions for that time frame will be
           displayed.
           5.9.2.2.3. If the SSN, format-ID and action indicator are entered, only that format-ID and
           action indicator will be displayed. If month and year are left blank, current month and year
           will be displayed.
           5.9.2.2.4. If the SSN and format-ID are entered, all action indicators will be displayed for that
           format-ID.
           5.9.2.2.5. If there is no data for request the following message will be displayed: "THERE IS
           NO DATA TO DISPLAY FOR THIS REQUEST".
   5.9.3. The screen view for transaction file will contain the following (See Figure 5.11.):
       5.9.3.1. SSN, name, format-ID, grade and date of year being reviewed at the top of the screen.
       This will remain at the top of the view screen while scrolling through the transactions.
       5.9.3.2. Space is available to type your name for identification when items are printed. Up to 15
       characters may be input.
       5.9.3.3. Transactions will be listed in chronological order for each day.
       5.9.3.4. The transactions will be displayed as follows: action code, trailer card indicator, for-
       mat-ID and action indicator, prime card data, update number, input source DSSN/ADSN, cycle
       number.
   5.9.4. If request is for a transaction file that has not been built (a year which is not available), the
   screen will display the following message: "TRANSACTION RECORDS NOT ON FILE FOR
   MEMBER/YEAR OF REQUEST. REFER TO MICROFICHE DTR FOR ASSISTANCE."
   5.9.5. You may change SSN in the transaction view to go to another member’s history file. The same
   year and types of transactions will be displayed as the prior request.
   5.9.6. Printing of the transaction file will be accomplished from the main menu screen.
       5.9.6.1. If a history transaction file is required, you must request a print for that year from the
       main menu. History transaction files are those that are older than the current year plus 4 previous
       years.
       5.9.6.2. If the queue is larger than 25 display pages, output will print only and a message will be
       displayed that there is too much data to display and that it is being printed.
   5.9.7. Scrolling through transactions is accomplished by using either the enter key or PF8 to scroll
   down, and PF7 to scroll up.
   5.9.8. If the file is closed, the following message will be displayed: "PROCESSED TRANSACTION
   FILE CLOSED - PLEASE TRY LATER."
   5.9.9. If there is no record for SSN entered, the following message will be displayed: "THIS SSN
   NOT FOUND ON FILE; ENTER ANOTHER REQUEST OR EXIT."

5.10. Transaction File. The transaction file lists processed, rejected and recycled transactions for each
member serviced by DJMS-AC. View this file on CICS similarly to the way the MMPA is viewed.
188                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      5.10.1. Transactions are accumulated from each update by SSN. The transaction file is cumulative,
      showing rejects, recycles, and processed transactions in chronological sequence for each member ser-
      viced by DJMS-AC.
         5.10.1.1. Each update will display transactions in chronological sequence. Transactions are
         coded as E-Rejected, F-Partial Reject, G-Processed, J-Partial Processed, K-Processed By Others,
         L-Advance Transaction, and M-Recycle.
         5.10.1.2. The transaction file does not include management notices.
         5.10.1.3. Rejected and recycled transactions contain the reason and/or error codes for the particu-
         lar reject and/or recycle. There can be up to six different codes for each reject or recycle. There is
         no narrative description; only the code is displayed.
         5.10.1.4. Recycled transactions with control code “M” will appear only once on the transaction
         file. It will recycle until it has processed. When it’s processed, it will show again.
         5.10.1.5. Advance transactions, control code “L” are treated like recycled transactions.
         5.10.1.6. Transactions are available for viewing for current plus four years before moving to his-
         tory.
      5.10.2. Access to transaction file:
         5.10.2.1. Sign on the CICSJ3. Key in “JJAM”, JUMPS MMPA special inquiries, to access the
         main menu screen. Enter request option 5 for “PROCESSED TRANSACTION INQUIRY” (See
         Figure 5.9.).
         5.10.2.2. Enter a SSN, year and month for viewing (See Figure 5.10.).
             5.10.2.2.1. If only the SSN is entered, all records will be displayed. Default will be current
             month and current year.
             5.10.2.2.2. If the SSN, year and month are entered, only transactions for that time frame will
             be displayed.
             5.10.2.2.3. If the SSN, format-ID and action indicator are entered, only that format-ID and
             action indicator will be displayed. If month and year are left blank, current month and year
             will be displayed.
             5.10.2.2.4. If the SSN and format-ID are entered, all action indicators will be displayed for
             that format-ID.
             5.10.2.2.5. If there is no data for request the following message will be displayed: “THERE
             IS NO DATA TO DISPLAY FOR THIS REQUEST”.
      5.10.3. The screen view for transaction file will contain the following (See Figure 5.11.):
         5.10.3.1. SSN, name, format-ID, grade and date of year being reviewed at the top of the screen.
         This will remain at the top of the view screen while scrolling through the transactions.
         5.10.3.2. Space is available to type your name for identification when items are printed. Up to 15
         characters may be input.
         5.10.3.3. Transactions will be listed in chronological order for each day.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             189


     5.10.3.4. The transactions will be displayed as follows: action code, trailer card indicator, for-
     mat-ID and action indicator, prime card data, update number, input source DSSN/ADSN, cycle
     number. NOTE: for Navy only - 40 byte record appears before reject codes and aligns with the
     left side of the prime card data.
  5.10.4. If request is for a transaction file that has not been built (a year which is not available), the
  screen will display the following message: “TRANSACTION RECORDS NOT ON FILE FOR
  MEMBER/YEAR OF REQUEST. REFER TO MICROFICHE DTR FOR ASSISTANCE.”
  5.10.5. You may change SSN in the transaction view to go to another member’s history file. The
  same year and types of transactions will be displayed as the prior request.
  5.10.6. Printing of the transaction file will be accomplished from the main menu screen.
     5.10.6.1. If a history transaction file is required, you must request a print for that year from the
     main menu. History transaction files are those that are older than the current year plus 4 previous
     years.
     5.10.6.2. If the queue is larger than 25 display pages, output will print only. A message will be
     displayed that there is too much data to display and that it is being printed.
  5.10.7. Scrolling through transactions is accomplished by using either the enter key or PF8 to scroll
  down, and PF7 to scroll up.
  5.10.8. If the file is closed, the following message will be displayed: “PROCESSED TRANSAC-
  TION FILE CLOSED - PLEASE TRY LATER.”
  5.10.9. If there is no record for SSN entered, the following message will be displayed: “THIS SSN
  NOT FOUND ON FILE; ENTER ANOTHER REQUEST OR EXIT.”
190                                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.1. MMPA Inquiry -- Formatted Input Area.
        MMPA INQUIRY - FORMATTED INPUT AREA



MINI ----    PASSWRD SSN ---------            REQ ----           PRNT IND --      FOR ----
ADDL REQ --- --- --- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----   ACCESS LEVEL


                         NORMAL CURSOR POSITION IS AT START OF PASSWORD FIELD

EXPLANATION OF FIELDS
SSAN (OR CMD)

COMMAND          FUNCTION
     P           Print screen display
     PF          Page forward one page
     PFnn        Page forward nn pages
     PB          Page backward one page
     PBnn        Page backward nn pages

SSN: nnnnnnnnn where n is a number. Additional SSN feature - Enter password and new SSN to apply previous inquiry for-
mat to additional SSNs.

PRNT IND: P - Inquiry to be directed to printer

NAME: For DFAS-DE terminals only, identifies person/organization for print delivery.


REQ: THERE ARE TWO FORMATS FOR THIS FIELD

        1.        XXY where:
                  XX - Any valid inquiry FORMAT-ID, or W followed by a category ID or any of the following:
                  WJ - fixed area only
                  WX - all MMPA data for history indicator used
                  WX (R) - Cross reference group
                  WG - Futures group
                  WU - Suspense group
                  WV - LES remarks group
                  Y - Any of these history indicators
                  Blank - All
                  O - Open and current month closed
                  H - History only
                  R - Special for cross-reference group
This history indicator is ignored for WJ, WG, WU, and WV inquiries. A WX7 is not valid for field input.

          2.       TNN where nn is a number which identifies a table containing a set of FORMAT-IDs needed for a specific
type of inquiry (see Figure 5.5.).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                 191


Figure 5.2. DJMS CRT Inquiry.
                                JUMPS MMPA INQUIRIES




            SSAN: --------- (‘X’ TO EXIT)


            REQUEST CODES: --- --- --- ---
                                --- --- --- ---
                                --- --- --- ---




            PRINT: -     NAME:


            HISTORY MMPA?: N




      ‘X’ IN SSAN (OR PF3) TO EXIT
      ‘P’ OR ‘X’ IN PRINT (OR PF9) TO PRINT THIS REQUEST
      PF1 FOR HELP
      PF4 FOR ADDITIONAL OPTIONS
      PF6 TO CANCEL REQUEST
192                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.3. MMPA Content.
                                         MMPA CONTENT


                  (NOTE: GROUP, CATEGORY, ENTRY TERMS DEFINED IN Chapter 2)
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
GROUP                       CATEGORY                            ENTRY

              INQUIRY                             INQUIRY                     INQUIRY
              REQUEST                             REQUEST                      REQUEST
FIXED         WJ (note 1)   A ALLOTMENTS          WA- (note 2)                 (note 3)

                            B LEAVE BALANCES      WB

                            C COLLECTIONS         WC

                            D DEDUCTIONS
                             (& DEBTS)            WD-

                            F FICA/FITW/SITW      WF

                            H HELD PAY            WH

                            L LOCATION            WL-     FORMAT-ID
VARIABLE
 OPEN         NONE          M MEMBER DATA         WM-     LISTED IN

                            N MEMORANDA           WN-     Attachment 18

                            P PAYMENT/PAY
                            COMPUTATION           WP-     AND IN

                            R REENLISTMENT
                            BONDS/CONTINUA-       WR-     Figure 5.6.
                            TION PAY/VARIABLE
                            INCENTIVE PAY

                            S STATUS       WS

                            T TOUR/SERVICE/
                            ENLISTMENT            WT

HISTORY       NONE          W ENTITLEMENTS        WW
FUTURES       WG (note 1)
SUSPENSE      WU (note 1)
LES REMARKS   WV (note 1)
CROSS
 REFERENCE    WXR

NOTES:
1. THIRD POSITION NOT USED
2. THIRD POSITION MUST SHOW HISTORY INDICATOR
3. FORMAT-ID PLUS HISTORY INDICATOR
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     193


Figure 5.4. MMPA Content.


        REMOTE INQUIRIES SYSTEM MESSAGE DISPLAYED ON TERMINALS
                               (In Alphabetical Sequence)


     ERROR MESSAGE                       REASON                              ACTION


ERROR ON CONTROL            The control record for this inquiry   Resubmit inquiry.
RECORD PAGING SESSION       cannot be retrieved.
ENDED


ERROR ON PAGE XX            Requested page cannot be retrieved. Resubmit entire inquiry. The
                                                                other pages can still be
                                                                requested.


FILE STATUS RECORD NOT      File status record not available.     Resubmit inquiry. If error
FOUND ON FILE C19AGD5N                                            recurs, notify DFAS-DE/FJGJ
FUNCTION CODE = X                                                 and do not re-input the inquiry.


FORMAT-ID NOT FOUND IN      One of the MMPA formatting            Notify DFAS-DE /FJGJ.
TABLE 1                     modules has detected a formatting
                            error.


FORMAT-ID NOT               One of the MMPA formatting            Notify DFAS-DE/FJGJ.
RECOGNIZED                  modules has detected a formatting
                            error.


INQUIRY LOST – RESUBMIT Program problem has developed             Resubmit inquiry. If error
                        while handling the inquiry.               recurs, notify DFAS-DE/FJGJ.


INVALID CATEGORY            Category requested in the first two Correct and resubmit.
REQUEST                     characters of the request is not valid.


INVALID FID REQUEST         First two characters of the request Correct and resubmit.
                            are not found in the table of valid
                            FORMAT-IDs or are not recognized
                            as one of the special inquiries.
194                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      ERROR MESSAGE                        REASON                                ACTION


INVALID HISTORY               History indicator (third character of Correct and resubmit.
INDICATOR                     request) must be 1-7 for this request.


INVALID LEVEL OF ACCESS Access code does not match those             Correct and resubmit.
                        stored at the computer.
XXX - INVALID PAGING    Inquiry was not a valid paging               Correct and resubmit.
REQUEST                 request.


INVALID PASSWORD              Password entered is not correct.       Resubmit password.


INVALID RECORD READ     An invalid record was put on disk If several of these messages are
FROM PRINTER QUEUE - AN and the rest of that inquiry cannot be received notify DFAS-DE/
INQUIRY POSSIBLY LOST   retrieved.                             FJGJ.


INVALID TRANSACTION FOR a. The type transaction is not               Correct and resubmit inquiry.
THIS STATION            allowed from this terminal.
                              b. A mini-transaction has been
                              entered with no major transaction
                              preceding.
                              c. This transaction is not valid for
                              the application signed on.


I/O ERROR ON QUEUE FILE – Disk I/O error.                            Resubmit inquiry. If a number
RESUBMIT                                                             of these messages are received,
                                                                     notify DFAS-DE/FJGJ.

LEVEL OF ACCESS INPUT         MMPA requested is protected and Higher authority is needed to
NOT SUFFICIENT TO VIEW        requires a higher level of access code inquire against MMPA.
MMPA                          than input.


NO DATA -- QUE ERROR X –      Inquiry has not been processed         Resubmit.
RESUBMIT                      because the data could not be
                              queued.


NO MMPA FOUND FOR SSAN MMPA processing has not found a               Submit next inquiry.
                       record for SSN XXXXXXXXX.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   195


     ERROR MESSAGE                        REASON                            ACTION


NO REQUEST CODES INPUT Inquiry was input without a request Resubmit with request code.
                       code.


OFF THE AIR XXXX              The teleprocessing program has      None.
(MESSAGE FROM                 been CANCELED by operations.
OPERATIONS)                   XXX-time program was stopped.
PAGING SESSION ENDED          Inquiry was received to end paging. None.


PROGRAM ABEND. DO NOT A problem has developed in the             Do not resubmit inquiry.
RESUBMIT INQUIRY      program when formatting the
                      requested record.


PROGRAM ABEND. DO NOT A problem was developed in the             Resubmit inquiry for viewing
RESUBMIT INQUIRY FOR  programs that handle printing.             on CRT.
PRINT


READ ERROR ON MMPA FILE I/O error occurred when trying to        Resubmit inquiry. If error
X                       read the requested MMPA.                 recurs, notify DFAS-DE/FJGJ.


REMOTE INQUIRIES ON THE The teleprocessing program has           Inquiries can be entered.
AIR                     been started.


MEMBER'S CURRENT ADSN Each station is normally allowed to If the inquiry is needed,
PREVENTS INQUIRY FROM inquiry only on those people          resubmit requesting table 50
YOUR STATION          currently or historically assigned to (T50).
                      that ADSN.


MEMBER'S SSN         Information only.                           None -- Inquiry is given from
XXXXXXXXX HAS BEEN                                               changed SSN.
CHANGED TO XXXXXXXXX


MMPA CANNOT BE                MMPA is garbled but not flagged as Notify DFAS-DE/FJGJ.
FORMATTED - DO NOT            garbled.
RESUBMIT - NOTIFY
DFAS-DE/FJGJ


MMPA IS GARBLED -- SX-7       The MMPA contains garbled data     Call DFAS-DE/FJGJ for
                              that cannot be formatted.          assistance.
196                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      ERROR MESSAGE                    REASON                             ACTION



MMPA REQUESTED HAS         Member has filed a statement of     Call DFAS-DE/FJP (DSN
DISPUTED FLAG --           disagreement and the MMPA data      926-7115) for assistance.
RESUBMIT USING SPECIAL     cannot be displayed.
INQUIRY
MMPA STRUCTURED IN         Reason: The MMPA is garbled but Action: Notify DFAS-DE/FJS
ERROR -- DO NOT RESUBMIT   is not flagged as garbled.      or DFAS-DE/FJGJ.
-- NOTIFY DFAS-DE/FJS


MMPA SUBFILE FOR           Reason: Operations has stopped use Action: Resubmit inquiry at
TERMINAL DIGIT X IS NOT    of this sub-file.                  later time.
ON LINE



NO DATA PRESENT            Reason: Program has not found the Action: Submit corrected
                           FORMAT-ID requested in the        inquiry or go on to next inquiry.
                           member's record.


RESOURCES NOT              Reason: Inquiry takes too much      Action: Break the inquiry into
AVAILABLE -- DO NOT        core storage.                       small segments and resubmit.
RESUBMIT


SSAN IS NOT NUMERIC        Reason: Non-numeric SSN in the      Action: Submit correct inquiry.
                           input transaction.


STATION BACK ON LINE       Reason: Operations has started use Action: Inquiries may be
                           of this terminal.                  entered.


TABLE ENTRY TXX DOES       Reason: You have requested a table Action: Correct and resubmit.
NOT EXIST                  inquiry which the program cannot
                           find.


THIS TYPE TRANSACTION      Reason: Operations has stopped use Action: Resubmit at later time.
TEMPORARILY NOT BEING      of this type transaction.
PROCESSED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             197


    ERROR MESSAGE                     REASON                          ACTION


TM - RESOURCES NOT        Reason: The teleprocessing         Action: Resubmit.
AVAILABLE. RESUBMIT       program was too busy to handle the
REQUEST                   request.


TRANSACTION ACCEPTED      Reason: Transaction has been      Action: None.
                          accepted for print or spool.


UNABLE TO READ MESSAGE Reason: I/O error.                   Action: Resubmit inquiry. If
RESUBMIT                                                    several of these messages are
                                                            received, notify DFAS-DE
                                                            operations.
198                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.5. Basic Categories.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007       199


Figure 5.6. Sample MMPA Entry.
200                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.7. JUMPS CRT Inquiry Tables.
JUMPS CRT INQUIRY TABLES


                                                         DISPLAYED
                                                    OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
       TABLE                  FORMAT ID         ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED


T02 New Arrival at Base WS-STATUS CATEGORY      X
                        LH-BANK                      X
                        MH-RSDNT CY/NON-CONUS        X
                        MG-TXING AUTH CITY/          X
                        STATE
                      35-BAQ                    X
                      40-BAS                    X
                      WP-PAYMENT CATEGORY       X
                      AB-BONDS                       X
                      58-VHA                    X



T03 Central Bank      LH-BANK                   X
(Bank)


                      WP-PAYMENTS               X
                      WC-COLLECTIONS            X
                      MC-PERSON NAME            X
                      WN-MEMORANDA              X
                      LF-FUTURE MAIL ADDRESS    X
                      SH-PCS STATUS             X



T04 Accession         WT-TOUR/SVC/ENL           X
Processing
                      LB-PAY ADSN                    X
                      LC-SERVC ADSN                  X
                      LG-CPBO/MAJCOM                 X
                      MC-NAME                   X
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             201


                                                     DISPLAYED
                                                OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
       TABLE               FORMAT ID        ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
                    MD-GRADE                     X
                    ME-SEX                       X
                    MG-TAX CITY/STATE            X
                    MH-RSDNT CY/NON-CONUS        X
                    MJ-AFPC MATCH FLAG           X
                    N3-CLOTHING ALW INT          X
                    WF-TAX CATEGORY              X
                    WR-REENL BONUS/CONT      X
                    PAY
                    WS-STATUS CATEGORY      X
                    01-BASE PAY             X
                    33-SRB                  X
                    34-ENLIST BONUS         X
                    35-BAQ                  X
                    40-BAS                  X
                    51-HOUS                 X
                    58-VHA                  X
                    59-INITIAL UEA          X
                    60-ADDITIONAL UEA       X



T04 Accession       63-CMA                  X
Processing
(Cont)              65-FSA                  X



T05 ADSN (Pay/Svc/     LB-PAY ADSN               X
TDT), Bank, Pay Option LC-SERVICING ADSN         X
CM Pay                 LD-TDY ADSN               X
                       LH-BANK                   X
                       LK-PAY OPTION             X
                       LB-PAY ADSN                                 X
                       LC-SERVICING ADSN                           X
202                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                      DISPLAYED
                                                 OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
        TABLE               FORMAT ID        ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED
                     LD-TDY ADSN                                      X
                     LH-BANK                               X
                     LK-PAY OPTION                         X
                     PU-CM REGULAR PAY       X



T06 Current Month    P3-PAY COMP FCTR CM     X
Deductions           WA-ALLOTMENT                          X
                     CATEGORY
                     WD-DEDUCTIONS                         X
                     CATEGORY
                     WF-TAXES CATEGORY                     X
                     MG-TXING AUTH CITY/     X
                     STATE
                     WH-HELD PAY CATEGORY                  X
                     WC-COLLECTIONS          X
                     CATEGORY
                     WS-STATUS CATEGORY      X



T07 Leave            BR-LV BAL               X
                     BL-DAYS PAID ACCRUED    X
                     LEAVE
                     BM-SAVED PAY LV BAL     X
                     WS-STATUS CATEGORY      X



T08 Tax Elections/   FJ-FITW                 X
Exemptions           FK-SITW                 X
                     MG-TXING AUTH CITY/          X
                     STATE
                     FC-FICA WHLDG           X
                     FE-ADV PYMT ERND INCM        X
                     CRD
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               203


                                                         DISPLAYED
                                                    OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
        TABLE                 FORMAT ID         ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
                       DQ-INDEBT MIL PAY/ALW     X



T09 Reenlistment Bonus NT-SEPN/REEN PROJ        X
                       SETLMN
& Continuation Pay
                       N7-SEPN TRANS PENDING    X


T09 Reenlistment Bonus NN-SEPN/REEN TRANS       X
                       REJECT
& Continuation Pay
                       WR-REEN BONUS CONT PAY   X
                       CAT
                       25-CONTINUATION PAY      X
                       31-RNLMNT BONUS          X
                       32-VRB                   X
                       33-SRB                   X
                       34-SEB                   X
                       MG-TXING AUTH CITY/      X
                       STATE
                       PJ-CONTINUATION PYMNT    X
                       PL-VRB PAYMENT           X
                       PM-RNLMNT PAYMENT        X
                       PQ-SEPTN PAYMENT         X
                       PX-DLNQNT PAYMENT        X
                       WT-TOUR/SVC/ENLSTMENT    X
                       CATEGORY
                       01-BASIC PAY                  X



T10 Final Separation   WS-STATUS CATEGORY            X
Base
Call-In When No PQ61/ N7-SEP TRANS PENDING      X
XS03 Received-for Calls NN-SEP/REEN TRANS       X
                        REJECT
204                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                       DISPLAYED
                                                  OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
        TABLE                 FORMAT ID       ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED
Before MER of Month   NT-SEP/REEN PROJ         X
                      SETLMENT
of DOS
                      AV-NR OF ALLOTMENTS     X
                      PU-CM REGULAR PAY       X
                      P3-PAY COMP FCTR CM     X
                      LH-BANK                 X
                      MG-TXING AUTH CITY/     X
                      STATE
                      WB-LV BALANCES               X
                      CATEGORY
                      SB-LEAVE                X
                      N8-MISC DEBT PEND       X
                      NE-ECAF HSEHSD GDS      X
                      CNTRL
                      WD-DEDTN CATEGORY       X
                      (DEBT)
                      WT-TOUR/SVC/ENLSTMNT    X
                      CATEGORY



T10 Final Separation    WS-STATUS CATEGORY         X
Base
Call-In When No PQ61/ N7-SEP TRANS PENDING    X
XS03 Received-for Calls NN-SEP/REEN TRANS     X
Before MER of Month REJECT
                        NT-SEP/REEN PROJ      X
of DOS                  SETLMENT
                        PH-REG COMP PAY       X
                        LH-BANK                    X
                        MG-TXING AUTH CITY/   X
                        STATE
                        WB-LV BAL CATEGORY         X
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            205


                                                      DISPLAYED
                                                 OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
        TABLE                  FORMAT ID     ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
T10 Final Separation    SB-LEAVE                                     X
Base
Call-In When No PQ61/ N8-MISC DEBT PEND      X
XS03 Received-for Calls NE-ECAF HSEHSD GDS        X
Before MER of Month CNTRL
                        WD-DEDTN CATEGORY         X
of DOS                  (DEBT)
                        WA-ALLOTMENT              X
                        CATEGORY



T12 Garnishment     WW-ENTITLEMENT           X
                    CATEGORY
                    WH-HELD PAY CATEGORY     X
                    WN-MEMORANDA             X
                    CATEGORY
                    WP-PAYMENT CATEGORY      X



T13 Indebtedness    WD-DEDNT CATEGORY        X
                    (DEBT)
                    N8-MISC DEBT PEND        X
                    NE-ECAF HSEHLD GDS       X
                    CNTRL
                    N9-97-98-99 INPUT        X
                    WU-SUSPENSE GROUP        X
                    P9-REFUNDS OTHER         X
                    MC-PERSONAL              X
                    WC-COLLECTIONS           X
                    LC-SERVICING ADSN        X



T14 Inactive        MD-MIL PERS GRD          X
Accounts            DF-MONTRY PNSHMT         X
206                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                     DISPLAYED
                                                OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
      TABLE               FORMAT ID         ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED
                   TK-PAY DATE               X
                   TT-TAFMSD                 X
                   TU-DOS                    X
                   WS-STATUS CATEGORY        X
                   TB-LOST DAYS CUR ENL      X
                   TH-ETS                    X



T15 Voucher Balancing PA-ADV PAY            X
                      PC-CSL PAY            X
                      PJ-CONTINUATION PAY   X
                      PK-PARTL PAY          X
                      PL-VRB PAYMENT        X
                      PM-RNLMNT PAYMENT     X
                      PQ-SEPTN PAYMENT      X
                      PX-DLNQNT PAYMENT     X
                      PY-PAYMT OUT OF BAL   X
                      PU-CM REG PAY         X



T15 Voucher Balancing PH-REG EOM PAY        X
(Cont)                PN-REG MM PAY         X
                      WC-COLLECTION         X
                      CATEGORY
                      WN-MEMORANDA          X
                      CATEGORY
                      25-CONTINUATION PAY   X
                      31-RNLMNT BONUS       X
                      32-VRB                X
                      33-SRB                X
                      74-LSL                X
                      WD-DEDTN CATEGORY     X
                      (DEBT)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 207


                                                           DISPLAYED
                                                      OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
        TABLE                  FORMAT ID          ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
                        TC-YRS OF SVC CMPLD        X
                        TD-DOS LAST AD OFF STAT    X
                        TE-DOS PREV ENLSTMT        X
                        TG-DOE OR EAD              X
                        TS-TOE                     X
                        TT-TAFMSD                  X
                        R5-RRB/LAST ENLSTMT        X
                        R7-SRB                     X
                        BR-LV BAL                  X



T16 Returned            PQ-SEPTN PAY              X
Separation/
Garnishment Payments    PX-DLNQNT REG/ITI PAY     X
                        PF-PAY HELD               X
                        WC-COLLECTION             X
                        CATEGORY
                        WN-MEMORANDA              X
                        CATEGORY
                        WD-DEDUCTION CATEGORY     X
                        MC-PERS NAME              X



T20 Final Separation    MC-PERS NAME              X
Manual Pay Comp Data-   WS-STATUS CATEGORY             X
MMPA Posture is Month   N7-SEP TRAN PENDING       X
of DOS (Before Month-   NN-SEPN/REEN TRANS        X
                        REJECT
End Restructure)
                        NT-SEPN/REEN PROJ         X
                        STLMNT
                        WW-ENTLMNT CATEGORY                    X
                        WA-ALLOTMENT                           X
                        CATEGORY
208                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                           DISPLAYED
                                                      OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
        TABLE                     FORMAT ID       ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED
                          WC-COLLECTIONS           X
                          CATEGORY
                          WD-DEDUCTIONS           X
                          CATEGORY
                          FC-FICA WITHHOLDING     X
                          FJ-FITW WITHHOLDING          X
                          FK-SITW                      X
                          FE-ADV PYMT-ERND INCM                 X
                          CREDIT
                          MG-TXING AUTH CITY/     X
                          STATE



T20 Final Separation      WH-HELD PAY CATEGORY                  X
Manual Pay Comp           WP-PAYMT/PAY COMP                     X
Data-MMPA Posture is      CATEGORY
Month
of DOS (Before Month-     N8-MISC DEBT PENDING    X
End Restructure) (Cont)   NE-ECAF HSEHLD GDS           X
                          CNTRL
                          WR-BONUS/CONT PAY       X
                          CATEGORY
                          WB-LEAVE BAL CATEGORY        X
                          SB-LEAVE                                         X
                          N1-ADVANCE LEAVE        X
                          LH-BANK                 X
                          MC-PEDT                 X
                          LH-BANK                 X
                          MG-TXING AUTH CITY/     X
                          STATE
                          WH-HELD PAY CATEGORY    X
                          WP-PAYMT-PAY COMP
                           CATEGORY               X
                          N8-MISC DEBT PENDING    X
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                        209


                                                  DISPLAYED
                                             OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
      TABLE              FORMAT ID       ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
                  NE-ECAF HSEHLD GDS      X
                  CNTRL
                  WR-BONUS/CONT PAY      X
                  CATEGORY
                  WB-LEAVE BAL           X
                  SB-LEAVE               X
                  N1-ADVANCE LEAVE       X



T23 BAS/COLA      40-BAS                 X
                  48-DUAL COLA           X
                  50-COLA                X
                  49-PROTD COLA          X
                  WS-STATUS CATEGORY     X
                  TG-DOE or EAD               X
                  LC-SERVICING ADSN      X
                  LD-TDY ADSN                 X



T24 BAQ/Housing   35-BAQ                 X
                  DH-RENTAL FAIR VALUE   X
                  51-HOUSING             X
                  52-IHA                 X
                  53-DUAL HOUS           X
                  55-RENT PLUS           X
                  56-RENT PLUS           X
                  57-RENT PLUS           X
                  58-VHA                 X



T24 BAQ/Housing   65-FSA                 X
(Cont)
                  WS-STATUS CATEGORY     X
210                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                         DISPLAYED
                                                    OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
       TABLE               FORMAT ID            ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED
                    TG-DOE or EAD                    X
                    LC-SERVICING ADSN            X
                    LD-TDY ADSN                      X
                    NO-PROJ PCS DEPRT                X



T25 Allotments      WA-ALLOTMENT                X
                    CATEGORY
                    PU-CM REG PAY                    X
                    P3-PAY COMP FACTOR CM       X
                    P4-PAY COMP FACTOR NM       X
                    P7-AMT TOTAL ENT            X
                    ALLOTABLE



T26 Clothing Allowance 59-INITIAL UEA           X
                       60-ADNTL UEA             X
                       61-EXTRA CMA             X
                       63-CMA                   X
                       81-INIT CIV CLOTH ALW    X
                       82-SPCL CIV CLOTH ALW    X
                       TB-LOST DAYS CUR ENL     X
                       TC-YRS OF SVC COMPLD     X
                       TG-DOE or EAD            X
                       TP-SVC COMP              X
                       TT-TAFMSD                X



R27 Returned Allotment WA-ALLOTMENT             X
                       CATEGORY
Payments
                       C5-CASH CLCTN CK CANCL   X
                       ALOT
                       N9-97-98-99-INPUT        X
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             211


                                                     DISPLAYED
                                                OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
       TABLE                FORMAT ID       ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
                    MC-PERS NAME             X
                    LC-SERVICING ADSN                              X
                    SH-PCS STATUS           X



T50 Transient Pay   LK-PAY OPTION                X
                    LH-BANK                      X
                    PU-EXCEP. PMTS               X
                    PH-EOM PAY              X
                    PN-MID MO PAY           X
                    P3-CURRENT MO PAY       X
                    P4-NEXT MO PAY               X



T50 Transient Pay   PA-ADV PAY              X
(Cont)
                    PC-CASUAL PAY                                  X
                    PK-PARTIAL PAY                                 X
                    PI-EOM BAL ADSN 9999    X
                    WS-STATUS                    X
                    LC-SERVICING ADSN       X
                    PO-EOM BAL ADSN 9998    X
                    PG-ONE TIME PAY BASIC   X



T90 MPF Personnel   MA-SSN                  X
Data
                    MC-PERS NAME            X
                    MD-MIL PERS GRD         X
                    ME-SEX                  X
                    MH-RSDNT CY/NON-CONUS   X
                    MJ-AFPC MATCH FLAG      X
                    MK-CON DATES            X
212                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                       DISPLAYED
                                                  OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
       TABLE                FORMAT ID         ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED
                    LB-PAY ADSN                X
                    LC-SERVICING ADSN          X
                    LD-TDY ADSN                X
                    LE-DY CY/NON-CONUS STA     X
                    LG-MPF NR OR MAJ COM ID    X
                    WS-STATUS                  X
                    WT-TOUR/SERVICE/           X
                    ENLISTMNT
                    N7-SEPTN DATA PEND        X
                    N9-97-98-99-INPUT         X
                    NN-SEP/REEN DATA REJECT   X
                    NQ-SEPTN DATA PEND        X
                    NW-STATUS TRANSACTION     X
                    N0-PROJ PCS DEPART        X
                    12-FLY DUTY               X
                    18-DEROS EXTN BONUS       X
                    19-MED ED CERTFN          X
                    20-DENTL PAY              X
                    24-MED DUTY               X
                    25-CONTINUATION PAY       X
                    28-VETRNY DUTY            X
                    29-OPTMTRY DUTY           X
                    30-PRO PAY                X
                    31-RNLMNT BONUS           X
                    32-VRB                    X
                    33-SRB                    X
                    34-SEB                    X
                    35-BAQ                    X



T90 MPF Personnel   BL-DAYS PAID ACCRUED LV   X
Data
(Cont)              BM-SAVED PAY LV BAL       X
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                         213


                                                   DISPLAYED
                                              OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
      TABLE                 FORMAT ID     ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
                    BR-LV BAL              X
                    DB-SGLI                X
                    PQ-SEPTN PAY           X
                    WR-REENLISTMENT BONUS  X
                    CONTINUATION PAY



T91 MPF Grade Change MA-SSN               X
Research             MC-NAME              X
                    MD-GRADE              X
                    LB-PAY ADSN           X
                    LC-SERV ADSN          X
                    LE-DUTY CNTRY/        X
                    NON-CONUS
                    LG-MPF MAJCOM         X
                    TG-EAD/DOE            X
                    TK-PAY DATE           X
                    TP-SERV COMP          X
                    TT-TAFMSD             X
                    TU-DOS                X
                    TH-ETS                X
                    TJ-DOE                X
                    TS-TOE                X



T92 MPF Status Reject MA-SSN              X
Research              MC-NAME             X
                      MD-GRADE            X
                      LB-PAY ADSN         X
                      LC-SERV ADSN        X
                      LE-DUTY CNTRY/      X
                      NON-CONUS
                      LG-MPF MAJCOM       X
214                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                        DISPLAYED
                                                   OPEN   OPEN &       ALL
       TABLE                 FORMAT ID         ALL ONLY CM CLOSED    CLOSED
                     WS-STATUS                  X
                     TG-EAD/DOE                 X
                     TK-PAY DATE                X
                     TP-SERV COMP               X
                     TT-TAFMSD                  X
                     TU-DOS                     X
                     TH-ETS                     X
                     TJ-DOE                     X
                     TS-TOE                     X
                     N7-SEP DATA PENDING        X
                     NN-SEP/REEN DATA REJECT    X
                     NQ-SEP PAY TO BE APPLD     X



T92 MPF Status Reject NT-PROJ SEP PMT          X
Research (Cont)       NW-BAD STATUS TRANS      X



T93 MPF Reen/Septn   MA-SSN                    X
Research             MC-NAME                   X
                     MD-GRADE                  X
                     LC-SERV ADSN              X
                     LG-MPF MAJCOM             X
                     N7-SEP DATA PENDING       X
                     NN-SEP PAY TO BE APPLD    X
                     NQ-SEP PAY TO BE APPLD    X
                     NT-PROJ SEP PMT           X
                     TG-EAD/DOE                X
                     TK-PAY DATE               X
                     TP-SERV COMP              X
                     TT-TAFMSD                 X
                     TU-DOS                    X
                     TH-ETS                    X
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              215


                                                        DISPLAYED
                                                   OPEN   OPEN &      ALL
        TABLE                FORMAT ID         ALL ONLY CM CLOSED   CLOSED
                       TJ-DOE                   X
                       TS-TOE                   X
                       WR-REEN BONUS/CONTN      X
                       PAY
                       WB-LEAVE BAL            X
                       32-VRB                  X
                       33-SRB                  X
                       34-SEB                  X



T94 Retired Pay Info   MA-SSN                  X
                       MC-NAME                 X
                       ME-SEX                  X
                       MJ-AFPC MATCH FLAG      X
                       LB-PAY ADSN                  X
                       LC-SERV ADSN                 X
                       LG-MPF MAJCOM                X
                       24-MED PAY                   X
                       25-CONTIN/VAR INCENT    X
                       32-VRB                  X
                       33-SRB                  X
                       34-SEB                  X
                       R2-CONTIN PAY           X
                       R3-RRB INDC             X
                       R4-REENL BONUS RECOUP   X
                       R5-RRB LAST             X
                       R6-VRB                  X
                       R7-SRB                  X
                       R8-SEB                  X
216                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.8. MMPA Entries by Category and FORMAT-ID.
MMPA ENTRIES BY CATEGORY AND FORMAT-ID


CATEGORY-ALLOTMENTS (A)


AB    BONDS


AC    CHARITY


AD    DEPENDENT SUPPLEMENTAL SUPPORT


AF    AF ASSISTANCE FUND


AH    HOME LOAN


AI    COMMERCIAL INSURANCE


AL    RELIEF AND AID REPAYMENT


AN    GOVERNMENT INSURANCE PREMIUM


AS    INDIVIDUAL BANK ACCOUNT


AT    US GOVERNMENT INDEBTEDNESS


AU    REMITTANCE FOR RSFPP


AV    ALLOTMENTS, NUMBER OF


AZ    ALLOTMENT FLASH CODE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                      217


CATEGORY-LEAVE BALANCE (B)


BL   DAYS PAID ACCRUED LEAVE


BM   SAVED PAY LEAVE BALANCES


BR   STANDARD LEAVE BALANCES


CATEGORY-COLLECTIONS (C)


C1   CHECK CANCELLATION, MEMBERS PAY


C2   CASH COLLECTION FOR AN INDEBTEDNESS
C5   CASH COLLECTION OR CHECK CANCELLATION OF ALLOTMENTS


CATEGORY-DEDUCTIONS (D)


DB   SERVICEMEN'S GROUP LIFE INSURANCE (SGLI)


DD   US AIRMEN AND SOLDIER'S HOME (USSAH)


DF   MONETARY PUNISHMENT


DG   INDEBTEDNESS-GPLD, REPORTS OF SURVEY


DH   RENTAL FAIR VALUE


DQ   INDEBTEDNESS-MILITARY PAY AND ALLOWANCES


DR   INDEBTEDNESS-EXCESS WEIGHT/HOUSEHOLD GOODS/HOUSE TRAILER


DS   INDEBTEDNESS-ALL OTHERS
218                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



DV    INDEBTEDNESS-REPAY ADVANCE


DW    INDEBTEDNESS-CSL/PART


DZ    INDEBTEDNESS ENTRY CODE (OPEN INDEBTEDNESS PRESENT ON MMPA)


CATEGORY-FICA/FITW/SITW (F)


FA    FICA MAXIMUM


FB    FITW QUOTIENT FACTORS


FC    FICA WITHHOLDING AMOUNT


FD    FITW, ADDITIONAL AMOUNT


FE    EARNED INCOME CREDIT


FF    FITW, DEDUCTION ELECTION


FG    FITW EXEMPTIONS, NUMBER OF


FJ    FITW


FK    FITW DEDUCTION SUSPENSION
FL    FEDERAL TAXABLE WAGES COMBAT ZONE EXCLUSION


FM    FITW ADDITIONAL WITHHOLDING INDICATOR


FP    FITW WAGES EARNED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                      219


FQ   TD FORM W-4E EXEMPTION FROM WITHHOLDING


FS   STATE INCOME TAX WITHHOLDING


CATEGORY-PAY HELD (H)


HA   PAY HELD-MEMBERS REQUEST


HB   PAY HELD-COMMANDERS REQUEST


HD   RETAINED PAY BALANCES


HE   FINES PENDING APPELLATE REVIEW


HF   FORFEITURES PENDING APPELLATE REVIEW


HG   PAY HELD GARNISHMENT


HH   FORFEITURES PENDING LIQUIDATION OF INDEBTEDNESS BALANCES


HK   DUTY STATUS CHANGE


HR   MEMBER MUST BE PAID IN EVEN DOLLARS


HS   MEMBERS REQUEST BALANCES (SEE HA)


HT   COMMANDERS REQUEST BALANCES (SEE HB)


HV   DUTY STATUS CHANGE BALANCES (SEE HK)


HX   MEMBER MUST BE PAID IN EVEN DOLLAR BALANCES (SEE HR)
220                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


HY    PAY HELD RELEASED


HZ    MMPA OUT-OF-BALANCE


CATEGORY-LOCATION (L)


LA    CHECK RECIPIENT-INDIVIDUAL


LB    ADSN PAYING


LC    ADSN SERVICING


LD    ADSN TEMPORARY DUTY


LE    DUTY COUNTRY OR NON-CONUS STATE


LF    FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS (SEPARATING MEMBER)


LG    MPF NUMBER AND MAJOR COMMAND IDENTIFY


LH    BANK DESIGNATED TO RECEIVE PAY


LK    PAYMENT OPTION


CATEGORY-MEMBER IDENTIFICATION (M)


MA    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


MC    NAME PERSONNEL


MD    GRADE MILITARY PERSONNEL
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                        221


ME   SEX


MG   TAXING AUTHORITY, CITY & STATE


MH   RESIDENT OF FOREIGN COUNTRY OR NON-CONTINENTAL US STATE


MJ   AFPC MATCH FLAG


MK   CONTROL DATES


CATEGORY-MEMORANDA (N)


NA   PRIVACY ACT FLAG


NB   LEAVE TRANSACTION PENDING


NC   AVIATOR CONTINUATION PAY MEMO
NE   ECAF HSEHLD GDS CNTRL


NM   AFTER SEPARATION MEMORANDA--CROSS REFERENCE TO MANUAL FILE


NN   REJECTED REENLISTMENT OR SEPARATION TRANSACTION


NQ   SEPARATION PAYMENT (PQ) TO BE APPLIED


NP   DELETION OF MMPA


NR   MISC BR LINE ADJUST


NT   SEPARATION/REENTRY PROJECTED SETTLEMENT


NW   BAD STATUS TRANSACTION
222                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



NO    PROJECTED PCS DEPARTURE


N1    ADVANCE LEAVE


N2    BAS COLLECTION


N3    CLOTHING ALLOWANCE INITIAL MILITARY


N4    DEATH GRATUITY


N5    SEPARATION TRAVEL


N6    TEMPORARY LODGING ALLOWANCE


N7    SEPARATION TRANSACTION PENDING


N8    MISCELLANEOUS INDEBTEDNESS PENDING


N9    DFAS-DE ADJUSTMENT EXPLANATION (97-98-99 TRANSACTIONS)


CATEGORY-PAYMENT/PAY COMPUTATION (9)


PA    ADVANCE PAYMENT


PB    ARREARS OF PAY (DECEASED) AUTHORIZATION OR PAYMENT


PC    CASUAL PAYMENT


PD    CLASS X ALLOTMENT (EMERGENCY PAYMENT BY FSO FOR DEPENDENTS)
PE    DEATH GRATUITY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              223


PF   PAYMENT FROM HELD PAY (HA)


PG   BASIC TRAINEE PAY AUTHORIZATION OR PAYMENT


PH   REGULAR END-OF-MONTH PAY FOR PRIOR MONTHS


PI    BALANCE REGULAR END-OF-MONTH FOR ADSN 9999 MEMBERS (PCS-LOCALLY
PAID)


PJ   MEDICAL/DENTAL/NURSE BONUSES


PK   PARTIAL PAYMENT


PL   VARIABLE REENLISTMENT BONUS AUTHORIZATION AND PAYMENT


PM   REENLISTMENT BONUS AUTHORIZATION AND PAYMENT


PN   REGULAR MID-MONTH PAYMENT FOR PRIOR MONTHS


PO   BALANCE END-OF-MONTH ADSN 9998 MEMBERS (BASIC TRAINEES)


PQ   SEPARATION PAY AUTHORIZATION AND PAYMENT AMOUNT


PR   AVIATOR CONTINUATION PAY


PU   REGULAR PAYMENT CURRENT MONTH


PV   COMFORT ITEMS PAYMENT


PX   DELINQUENT POSTED REGULAR OR ONE-TIME PAYMENTS


PY   PAYMENTS OUT-OF-BALANCE FROM AUTHORIZATION
224                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


P1    PAY AUTHORIZATION SUPPRESSED--REGULAR MID-MONTH


P2    PAY AUTHORIZATION SUPPRESSED REGULAR END-OF-MONTH


P3    PAY COMPUTATION FACTORS, CURRENT MONTH


P4    PAY COMPUTATION FACTORS, NEXT MONTH


P5    PAY AUTHORIZATION CURRENT


P7    AMOUNT TOTAL ENTITLEMENTS ALLOTABLE


P8    REFUNDS--ALLOTMENTS


P9    REFUNDS--OTHER THAN ALLOTMENTS


CATEGORY - REENLISTMENT BONUS\CONTINUATION PAY (R)


RA    AVIATOR CONTINUATION PAY RECOUPMENT


RB    MEDICAL OFFICER RETENTION BONUS


RC    INCENTIVE SPECIAL PAY


RD    INCENTIVE SPECIAL PAY--CRNA


RE    SPECIAL PAY--NURSE ACCESSION


R1    MED/DEN/RN BONUS RECOUP


R2    CONTINUATION PAY (MEDICAL OFFICE)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                      225


R3   REGULAR REENLISTMENT BONUS ENTITLEMENT MAXIMUM INDICATOR


R4   REENLISTMENT BONUS CUMULATIVE AMOUNT RECOUPED


R5   REGULAR REENLISTMENT BONUS/LAST REENLISTMENT


R6   VARIABLE REENLISTMENT BONUS


R7   SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS


R8   SELECTIVE ENLISTMENT BONUS


R9   AVIATOR CONTINUATION PAY


CATEGORY - STATUS (S)


SA   ON STATION


SB   LEAVE


SG   PCS ARRIVAL


SH   PCS DEPARTURE
SJ   ABSENT WITHOUT LEAVE (AWOL)


SK   CONFINED


SL   DECEASED


SM   MISSING


SP   DESERTED
226                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



ST    SUSPENDED STATUS


SU    MENTALLY INCOMPETENT


SV    SEPARATED


SX    NUMBER OF OPEN STATUS ENTRIES


CATEGORY - TOUR/SERVICE/ENLISTMENT (T)


TA    LOST DAYS CURRENT ENLISTMENT INDICATOR


TB    LOST DAYS CURRENT ENLISTMENT


TC    YEARS OF SERVICE COMPLETED


TD    DATE OF SEPARATION LAST ACTIVE DUTY OFFICER STATUS


TE    DATE OF SEPARATION PREVIOUS ENLISTMENT


TF    DUAL STATUS (ENLISTED MEMBER WITH RESERVE COMMISSION)


TG    DOE


TH    EXPIRATION TERM OF SERVICE (ETS)


TJ    EAD/PRIOR DOE


TK    PAY DATE


TL    OVER FOUR YEARS ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                 227



TM   PRIOR SERVICE BENEFIT WAIVER


TN   ACIP DATES (ASD AND OSD)
TO   DAYS ALLOWABLE TRAVEL TIME, RESERVE


TP   SERVICE COMPONENT


TR   SPECIAL COMPENSATION POSITIONS


TS   TERM OF ENLISTMENT (TOE)


TT   TOTAL ACTIVE FEDERAL MILITARY SERVICE DATE (TAFMSD)


TU   DATE OF SEPARATION (DOS)


TV   SPD ADDITIONAL


TW   SPECIAL COMPENSATION POSITION INDICATOR


TX   PRIOR SERVICE INDICATOR


TY   PRIOR EAD AND DOS


CATEGORY - ENTITLEMENTS (W)


01   BASIC PAY


02   FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY PAY


09   BAQ DIFF/SAVE PAY
228                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


10    DEMOLITION DUTY PAY


11    FLIGHT DECK DUTY PAY


12    FLYING DUTY PAY


15    PARACHUTE JUMPING DUTY PAY


16    STRESS DUTY PAY


17    SUBMARINE DUTY PAY


19    BOARD CERTIFTN PAY


20    DENTL PAY


21    DIVING DUTY PAY
22    FOREIGN DUTY PAY


23    HOSTILE FIRE DUTY PAY


24    MEDICAL DUTY PAY


25    MEDICAL/DENTAL/NURSE BONUSES


26    REGISTERED NURSE ACCESSION BONUS


27    SEA DUTY PAY


28    VETERINARY DUTY PAY


29    OPTOMETRY DUTY PAY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                    229



30   SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY


31   REENLISTMENT BONUS


32   VARIABLE REENLISTMENT BONUS


33   SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS


34   SELECTIVE ENLISTMENT BONUS


35   BAQ


38   AVIATOR CONTINUATION PAY


39   BAS - SUPPLEMENTAL OR PRORATED


40   BAS


41   PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCE (PAGO)


42   MOVE-IN HOUSING ALLOWANCE


43   NEW OVERSEAS HOUSING ALLOWANCE


44   INTERIM OVERSEAS HOUSING ALLOWANCE


45   DUAL OHA


46   COLA
47   COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA) - DUAL
230                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


49    COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA) - PRORATED


50    COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA)


55    OHA


56    IHA - OHA


57    OHA - UNACCOMPANIED WITH DEPENDENTS


58    VHA


59    UNIFORM & EQUIPMENT ALLOWANCE, INITIAL


60    UNIFORM & EQUIPMENT ALLOWANCE, ADDITIONAL


61    CLOTHING ALLOWANCE, EXTRA


63    CLOTHING MAINTENANCE


65    FAMILY SEPARATION ALLOWANCE (FSA)


66    INTERIM VHA


67    VHA DUAL


68    VHA


71    DISABILITY SEVERANCE PAY


72    DISCHARGE GRATUITY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                             231


73   LUMP-SUM BONUS


74   LUMP-SUM ACCRUED LEAVE


76   READJUSTMENT PAY


77   SEVERANCE PAY


78   PERSONAL EXPENSE ALLOWANCE


79   TLA
81   CLOTHING ALLOWANCE, INITIAL CIVILIAN


82   CLOTHING ALLOWANCE, SPECIAL CONTINUING CIVILIAN


83   VSI


84   SSB


85   ENTITLEMENT ADVANCE FOR ADVANCE PAYMENT


86   QUASI ADVANCE (TO OFFSET NEGATIVE MM BALANCE)


GROUP - FUTURES (G)


AX   ALLOTMENT STOP


DB   SERVICEMEN'S GROUP LIFE INSURANCE (SGLI)


DD   SOLDIER'S HOME (USSH)


DV   INDEBTEDNESS - REPAY ADVANCE
232                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



FE    EARNED INCOME CREDIT


FQ    TD FORM W-4E


HD    DETAINED PAY BALANCES


SB    LEAVE


12    FLYING DUTY


19    BOARD CERTIFTN PAY


20    DENTAL DUTY


21    DIVING DUTY


23    HOSTILE FIRE DUTY


24    MEDICAL DUTY PAY


25    RETENTION PAY


30    SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY
32    VARIABLE REENLISTMENT BONUS


33    SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS


34    SELECTIVE ENLISTMENT BONUS


35    BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR QUARTERS (BAQ)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                       233


38   AVIATOR CONTINUATION PAY


52   INTERIM HOUSING ALLOWANCE (IHA)


63   CLOTHING MAINTENANCE ALLOWANCE (CMA)


78   PERSONAL EXPENSE


GROUP - SUSPENSE (U)


DQ   INDEBTEDNESS, MILITARY PAY & ALLOWANCE


DV   INDEBTEDNESS, REPAY ADVANCE


MG   TAXING AUTHORITY, CITY & STATE


MJ   AFPC MATCH FLAG


N8   MISC INDEBTEDNESS PENDING


SB   LEAVE


SG   PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION (PCS) ARRIVAL


35   BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR QUARTERS (BAQ)
234                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.9. Base Inquiry Open-Case List.

                                 BASE INQUIRY OPEN-CASE LIST


 IND   SSAN NAME ADSN DATE C         A     FID    ERR    SQ    FSO    MPF   CLSE LITERAL DATA


 2                 3831   0075   M   2     SG05   TCM    00    6778   OP         03-16
 2                 3831   0109   M   0     SG05   TDF    00    6778   OP         04-20




 ENTER IN FIRST POSITION OF ANY RECORD     X = EXIT
                                           R = RETURN TO MENU
                                           U = PAGE-UP
                                           D = PAGE DOWN
                                           S = SELECT RECORD
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         235


Figure 5.10. Base Inquiry Member Data.

                                     BASE INQUIRY OPEN-CASE LIST


 IND          SSAN NAME ADSN       DATE   C   A   FID    ERR      SQ   FSO   MPF CLSE LITERAL DATA


 2                         3831    0075   M   2   SG05   TCM      00   6778 OP         03-16


MEMO RECORDS:
                    * * * NO MEMO RECORDS FOUND FOR THIS MEMBER * * *
                    * * * NO MEMO RECORDS FOUND FOR THIS MEMBER * * *
REJECTED TRANSACTIONS:
----+----1----+----2----+----3---- +----4----+----5----+----6---- +----7----+----
0SG05         90030390012642AKS7                  D900302030004              6778SAD2000




 CLOSED CASES:
              * * * NO CLOSED CASE FOUND FOR THIS MEMBER * * *




'X' TO EXIT                'M' TO RETURN TO MENU-PGM                   'L' TO RETURN TO LIST-PGM
ENTER FUNCTION CODE:
236                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.11. MMPA Special Inquiries.


                            JUMPS MMPA SPECIAL INQUIRIES                 JJAM



ENTER REQUEST:


           1 - 1/3 CALCULATION FOR INDEBTEDNESS


           2 - VSI/SSB CALCULATION


           3 - WHAT-IF VHA, OHA, OR COLA


           4 - FSO MMPA HISTROY SPOOLS


           5 - PROCESSED TRANSACTION INQUIRY


           X - EXIT




KEYS:    <ENTER>: CONTINUE         <PF3>: EXIT   <PF4>: INQ MENU   <PF6>: CANCEL
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                237


Figure 5.12. Transaction Inquiries.


                                                                   JJPA


DJMS TRANSACTION INQUIRIES




              SSN: 123456789          ('X' TO EXIT)


              FORMAT-ID AND ACTION INDICATOR: - - - -



              YEAR: 1999                       MONTH: 12


              PRINT: X                         NAME: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX




              'X' IN SSN (OR PF3) TO EXIT
              'P' OR 'X' IN PRINT (OR PF9) TO PRINT THIS REQUEST
              PF1 FOR HELP
              PF6 TO CANCEL REQUEST
238                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 5.13. Screen View for Transaction File.

                                                                 NAME                         :
 SSN              NAME-ID       GRADE
123456789     GOULD             35                               AS OF: YY (year reviewing)
AB C                                                D                                         E   F      G
G X AB01 XXXXXXXXX1XXXXXXXXX2XXXXXXXXX3XXXXXXXXX4XXXXXXXXX                                    UPDT INPT CYCLE ##
              XXXXXXXXX1XXXXXXXXX2XXXXXXXXX3XXXXXXXXX4XXXXXXXXX                               UPDT INPT CYCLE ##
              (                Navy 40                                  ) REJ CODES
              TRAILER CARD INFO 48 POSITIONS FOR EACH CARD
G X AB01 XXXXXXXXX1XXXXXXXXX2XXXXXXXXX3XXXXXXXXX4XXXXXXXXX                                    UPDT INPT CYCLE ##
              (                Navy 40                                  ) REJ CODES
G X AB01 XXXXXXXXX1XXXXXXXXX2XXXXXXXXX3XXXXXXXXX4XXXXXXXXX                                    UPDT INPT CYCLE ##
              (                Navy 40                                  ) REJ CODES
G X AB01 XXXXXXXXX1XXXXXXXXX2XXXXXXXXX3XXXXXXXXX4XXXXXXXXX                                    UPDT INPT CYCLE ##
              (                Navy 40                                  ) REJ CODES
G X AB01 XXXXXXXXX1XXXXXXXXX2XXXXXXXXX3XXXXXXXXX4XXXXXXXXX                                    UPDT INPT CYCLE ##
              (                Navy 40                                  ) REJ CODES
KEYS:   <PF1>: HELP     <PF3>: EXIT      <PF8 or ENTER>: PAGE FORWARD     <PF7>: PAGE BACK             YEAR: - - - -


SSN


NAME-ID


GRADE


A = ACTION CODE, PROCESSED, REJECTED, RECYCLED.


B = TRAILER CARD INDICATOR


C = FORMAT ID AND ACTION INDICATOR 4 POSITIONS.


D = PRIME CARD VARIABLE DATA


E = UPDT = UPDATE NUMBER (4 POSITION) POSITION 1-2 IS UPDATE, 3-4 IS MONTH.


F = INPT = INPUT SOURCE DSSN. 3810 WOULD BE CENTRAL SITE INPUT.


G = CYCLE ## = CYCLE NUMBER. 2 POSITION ALPHA/NUMERIC


              NAVY 40 WILL APPEAR BEFORE REJECT CODES AND ALIGN WITH THE LAST SIDE
              OF THE TRANS INFO.


              UP TO 6 REJECT CODES AT THE END OF THE SECOND LINE.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            239


                                               Chapter 6

                           OFFLINE REPORTING CONTROL SYSTEM

6.1. Description. The Offline Reporting Control System provides access to various data from the MMPA
via an on-site computer terminal linked to the central site mainframe at DFAS-DE. Using Offline with its
prompting screens (see Figure 6.1. and Figure 6.2.), the FSO can produce entitlement extracts as well as
several formatted reports. Information requested is transmitted to the servicing ADSN for printing. New
releases are provided to update Offline software and include all specific installation instructions neces-
sary.

6.2. Functions Performed. The following products are available through the Offline Reporting Control
System:
   6.2.1. Pay Service File (PSF)/Gummed Label Prints - PSF or member address information is
   extracted on an as-requested basis. Both the PSF print and gummed labels are produced using the
   same file. Data is in ORG, SSN or NAME sequence with sorting of the information performed locally.
   The PSF print includes a total page with the number of members assigned.
   6.2.2. Financial Organization/Payroll Money List - Extracted twice each month, sequenced by either
   SSN or financial organization name.
   6.2.3. Leave Balance Listing - Monthly, leave data is extracted from the LES data base in name
   sequence within organization, as contained in the JLES file.
   6.2.4. ETS Listing - Monthly, Expiration of Term of Service (ETS) data is extracted from the LES
   data base in either SSN, Name, Grade, ETS date or organization sequence. Contains information on
   members whose ETS will expire during the next calendar month. It is to be used as a tool by the FSO
   and MPF to ensure that the member's pay is not interrupted due to an administrative oversight or that
   the member is not overpaid due to lost time. The ETS listing should be checked against the DTR or
   the MMPA to ensure an E5, E4, or E6 or TU04 (involuntary) transaction has been submitted to
   DFAS-DE. If appropriate transactions have been submitted, annotate the listing with the date the
   transactions appear on the DTR. Contact the member's servicing MPF, separations and reenlistments
   section, in person or by telephone and request they process appropriate transactions to update the ETS
   or input the separation information.
   6.2.5. Pay Record Accessibility (PRA) Audit Listing - PRA information is extracted quarterly
   (March, June, September, and December) and transmitted in SSN sequence. See Chapter 1 for PRA
   procedures.
   6.2.6. Entitlement Verification - Using prompted screen formats, information on any format ID is
   available for extract with the data base of all members assigned to the requesting ADSN as the source.
   6.2.7. Family Quarters Verification – Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) data is extracted quarterly
   (Jan, Apr, July, and Oct) from DJMS and compared to housing management data. The results of this
   comparison is posted to Report.Web for MAJCOM retrieval and distribution to their bases to be
   worked. The FSO provides applicable reports to the housing office and ensure that all discrepancies
   are worked. FSO notifies MAJCOM when the report has been worked. See Chapter 26 for addi-
   tional procedures. Working the OFFLINE Family Quarters Verification report is no longer required.
240                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      6.2.8. US Savings Bonds Report - Extracted on an as-requested basis sequenced by those members
      with and those without bond deductions. Those with deductions are further broken down by SSN
      within organization. A subtotal is provided for each member who has more than one bond deduction.
      6.2.9. TD Form W-2s 5-Year Tax History - Information on TD Forms W-2 and W-2c is extracted on
      an as-requested basis.
      6.2.10. Miscellaneous Reports - The COLA Members Assigned CONUS, OHA Members Assigned
      CONUS, and Members Receiving BAQ with no VHA Reports are extracted after month-end restruc-
      ture, with a message on the JBTO screen when the data has been transmitted. Data is in SSN sequence
      and available for 30 days.
      6.2.11. LES/NPA Prints - LES and NPA information will be extracted on an as-requested basis when
      the application is available.

6.3. Operation. The Offline system must be installed on an IBM PC Compatible microcomputer with a
microprocessor chip of the Intel 8086/88 variety; a 286 is acceptable but a 386 or 486 is preferred (exam-
ples include Zenith 248, Sperry PC/IT, UNISYS PW2, and EVEREX 386). Specific information about
installation, start up, requirements for each application etc., are contained in the users guide included with
offline releases.

6.4. Data Communications:
      6.4.1. After you create the MILPAY data disk from the Offline system, immediately File Transfer the
      data to the mainframe. There are two routines used in this process. The first (JBTR) is used only for
      those functions which are initiated from the PC (i.e., gummed labels/PSF print, Entitlement Verifica-
      tion, and US Savings Bonds). All other application code subsystems are scheduled to extract data on
      a periodic basis. The second routine (JBTO) is used to extract output results from all application code
      requests.
      6.4.2. To receive your MILPAY Offline files, redirect the transmission to your microcomputer's hard
      drive. There are two types of communications software currently in use - IRMAREMOTE and
      IRMACOMM. The redirect steps for each are contained in the Offline Reporting Control System
      users guide.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                           241


Figure 6.1. Joint Service Software (JSS), Offline Reporting.


                               JOINT SERVICE SOFTWARE (JSS)                 DSSN: 912300
                                    OFFLINE REPORTING
                                        MAIN MENU



     1    PSF and/or GUM LABEL PRINTS            7    FAMILY QTRS VERIFICATION


     2    FIN ORG/PAYROLL MONEY LIST             8    US SAVINGS BONDS REPORT


     3    LEAVE BALANCE LISTING                  9    W-2s 5 YEAR TAX HISTORY


     4    ETS LISTING                            A    MISCELLANEOUS REPORTS


     5    PRA AUDIT LISTING                      B    LES/NPA PRINTS


     6    ENTITLEMENT VERIFICATION               C    UPDATE LOCAL DSSN RECORD



          X EXIT TO SYSTEM MENU or MS-DOS PROMPT



                                   Select TRIGGER or use
242                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 6.2. Joint Service Software (JSS), Data Extraction Main Menu.


                             JOINT SERVICE SOFTWARE (JSS)                          v 3.0
                             DATA EXTRACTION MAIN MENU
                                     MENU PAGE 1



                 D    Delete data files


                 E    ETS Listing


                 F    Fin Org / Payroll Money List


                 G    PSF / Gummed Labels Print


                 I    IATS - Travel Master Record



      X EXIT to DOS                                  Pg Dn NEXT menu


                                  Select LETTER listed above
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        243


                          JOINT SERVICE SOFTWARE (JSS)                        v 3.0
                          DATA EXTRACTION MAIN MENU
                                  MENU PAGE 2



             L      Leave Balance Listing


             M      Miscellaneous Reports


             N      LES/NPA Prints


             O      Entitlement Verification


             P      PRA Audit Listing




    X EXIT to DOS           PgUp PREVIOUS menu              Pg Dn NEXT menu



                               Select LETTER listed above
244                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                            JOINT SERVICE SOFTWARE (JSS)                            v 3.0
                            DATA EXTRACTION MAIN MENU
                                    MENU PAGE 3


               Q      Homes/Family Quarters Verification


               S      US Savings Bonds Report


               U      Unit Address Labels


               W      W-2s Five Year Tax History




      X EXIT to DOS          PgUp PREVIOUS menu                   Pg Dn NEXT menu



                                Select LETTER listed above
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007   245


Figure 6.3.
246                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                  Chapter 7

                          PAYROLL AND PAY PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTION

Section 7A—Payroll.

7.1. Description. Military members are paid on a monthly basis with the option to receive payments
once or twice per month. DFAS-DE pays all Air Force members. Members receive a statement of net pay
and the financial organization to which it was sent at mid-month (if receiving a payment) and a compre-
hensive statement of pay, including explanations of all elements of that pay, at end-of-month. These state-
ments are created centrally by DFAS-DE and mailed to the finance office or the mailing address on the
member's pay statement.

7.2. Payroll Processing:
      7.2.1. Local Payees. All payroll checks for local payees are produced and mailed from DFAS-DE.
      Paychecks will be mailed in sufficient time for payees to receive their paychecks on payday at the
      address maintained on the JLES address file. Addresses on the JLES address file can be changed by
      using the JDC SC04 transaction. (See Figure 7.13.) Only the servicing FSO or DFAS-DE can input
      an SC04 to update a member’s LES address.
      7.2.2. Central Payees. Electronic Funds Transfer System (EFTS) payments are delivered to the Fed-
      eral Reserve no later than 4 workdays prior to payday to ensure delivery to member accounts by pay-
      day. Once released, payments cannot be stopped or returned to DFAS-DE.

7.3. Non-receipt of Paycheck - Military Pay Actions. Upon notification of non-receipt of a paycheck,
the military pay section contacts DFAS-JMSA/DE, via establishment of a CMS case, to determine if the
check was returned as undeliverable. If DFAS-JMSA/DE has the check, they will cancel the check and
credit funds to the member's pay account. If the check is lost or stolen, complete DD Form 2660, State-
ment of Claimant Requisition Recertified Check, have member sign, and mail to DFAS-JMSA/DE.
Members must wait seven calendar days before submission of DD Form 2660. If member was a pipeline
student at the time of issuance of check, please annotate the FSO's Remark section as such. Students will
have immediate re-issuance of checks while other members must wait for U.S. Treasury response.

7.4. Return of Funds - Military Pay Actions:
      7.4.1. When funds are returned from either a financial organization (F.O.) or from the post office, they
      will be returned (C1) to the member's pay account. (See Figure 7.9.).
      7.4.2. Members that have funds returned by a F.O. will also have their direct deposit stopped (LH02),
      unless a change has been processed (LH04).

7.5. Suppression of Payment. When a member's pay is suppressed, annotate AF Form 1121, Payment
Suppression Register (JUMPS) accordingly. (See Figure 7.3.) Maintain in accordance with https://
afrims.amc/af/mil. Notify member whose pay has been suppressed to minimize inquires on payday.
      7.5.1. Central Payment. Submission of input transactions (status changes, BAQ stop) accomplishes
      required adjustment to the member's MMPA and the central pay authorization file. In emergencies a
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             247


   message or telephone call may be required to suppress a central payment. Bases must contact
   DFAS-DE/FJFBA by 1400 hours (Denver time) on the payroll processing date.
   7.5.2. Local Payees. When it is determined that a locally paid member should not receive a check, the
   servicing FSO must process a pay suppression (P103/P203 Figure 7.12.) before cutoff. The base
   level input of a P103/P203 goes directly into a recycle file until payroll programs are executed (imme-
   diately after the appropriate cut-off update). Then they are matched against the pay authorization file.
   If the P103/P203 finds a matching pay authorization, a check writing record is not produced and a
   DJMS pay suppression is created and put into the next DJMS update. Therefore, the MMPA will not
   reflect the pay suppression until the first update after cut-off. Use P103/P203 to suppress pay for cur-
   rent or next month. For permanent suppressions, use the ST04 (Figure 52.8.) transaction. If bases are
   not able to process P103/P203 before cutoff, they should contact DFAS-DE/FJFBA for a check pull.
   FJFBA will cancel the paycheck into the member's MMPA for next pay period. DFAS-DE/FJFBA
   must be notified 5 workdays before payday for check pulls.

7.6. Even-Dollar Payments. FSOs may make payments in even dollars in overseas areas to reduce use
of United States coins in these areas. Payments may also be made in even dollars in the United States
when specifically requested to alleviate coin shortages.
   7.6.1. Continuing Payments. If even-dollar payments are to be continued, FSO notifies DFAS-DE/
   FJP. New pay authorizations in even dollars are issued to FSO. If reported after EOM cut-off, two
   cycles (MM and EOM) are required to obtain new pay authorizations which have been reduced to
   even dollars. Notification may be made by airmail letter, courier, telegram or narrative message.
   Limited use of telephone calls is also authorized but these must be confirmed in writing. Include this
   data in the notification: "ADSN (no.) must pay in even dollars beginning (date) and continuing indef-
   initely"; give reason that payment must be made in even dollars, date and signature.
   7.6.2. Stop Even-Dollar Payments. When no longer necessary to pay in even dollars, the FSO notifies
   DFAS-DE/FJP. Include this data in the notification: "ADSN (no.) no longer necessary to pay in even
   dollars effective (date)"; date; and signature. Notification is by the same means as in (a) above.

Section 7B—Pay Products.

7.7. Leave and Earnings Statement (LES). The LES is a comprehensive statement of a member's leave
and earnings. It is issued upon accession, final separation, and the end of the month for which leave and
earnings are accrued. (See Figure 7.1.) The LES provides:
   7.7.1. The most current pay, taxes, leave and status information available in the member's MMPA
   when the LES was generated by DFAS-DE (at end-of-month cutoff). If a member has a SAVE PAY
   Leave Balance, the balance is listed in the remarks area of the June and December LES.
   7.7.2. A statement of the member's pay and leave account.
   7.7.3. The capability for supervisors to verify members' leave balances before approving leave.
   7.7.4. A basis for the FSO to use when answering inquiries and authorizing casual and partial pay-
   ments.
   7.7.5. Remarks information provided by HQ AFPC relating to the member’s retirement plan.
248                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         7.7.5.1. Final Pay – if date of initial entry to military/uniformed service (DIEMS) is equal to or
         less than 7 Sep 1980.
         7.7.5.2. High 3 – If DIEMS is within the timeframe of 8 Sep 1980 through 31 July 1986.
         7.7.5.3. Choice – if DIEMS is greater than or equal to 1 August 1986.

7.8. Net Pay Advice (NPA). NPAs are issued to inform members of the amount of their mid-month pay.
(See Figure 7.2.) The NPA shows members the amount of pay received at mid-month along with the
financial organization to which their check was sent. Also included in the NPA are pay-related remarks.
These remarks can be printed on all NPAs when they apply to members in general or on NPAs of selected
individuals when more specific in nature.

7.9. TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement and TD Form W-2C, Corrected Wage and Tax State-
ment. W-2s are produced by DFAS-DE and are either forwarded to the servicing ADSN for distribution
through the BITS and PSC system or mailed directly to the member's home address. W-2c's are produced
at DFAS-DE and mailed directly to members' home addresses. Duplicate forms W-2 and W-2C are pro-
duced by central site and local FSO using the 5-Year Tax History System.

7.10. Personal Statement of Military Compensation (PSMC). The PSMC is a statement produced
annually which outlines the total value of members' military pay and benefits. PSMCs are sorted and dis-
tributed the same as LESs and NPAs. (See paragraph 7-16.) Requests for duplicate PSMCs must be sent
to MAJCOM for forwarding to DFAS-JM/DE who will request creation of the duplicate.

7.11. LES Production:
      7.11.1. End-of-Month LESs. After EOM cutoff, production of the LESs begins at DFAS-DE. LESs
      are mailed to the base, home address and to Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) depending on the
      JLES address file. (See paragraph 7.18.)
      7.11.2. Accession LESs. LESs are generated upon the accession of basic military trainees. Printing
      of the accession LES is not done until EOM cutoff, so that all LESs are produced at one time. (See
      Chapter 39 for Accession information.)
      7.11.3. Separation LESs. Separation LESs are generated upon the member's separation. Printing of
      the separation LES is not done until EOM cutoff, so that all LESs are produced at one time during the
      month. Once members are placed in "T" status LES information will be recycled until they enter "V"
      status. Upon being placed in "V" status, a member's LES will be produced at the next monthly pro-
      duction. (See Chapter 52 for separation information.)
      7.11.4. Members in PCS Status. When the member is departing PCS, the servicing ADSN processes
      an SH transaction to place the member in PCS status. Inform the member of the options available for
      LES delivery during PCS. For those members who wish to receive their LESs during this period, pro-
      cess an SC04 with an "A" in the LES-NPA-PRINT-IND. (See Figure 7.13.) Options include:
         7.11.4.1. Forward member's LES to leave address;
         7.11.4.2. Forward to member's gaining FSO;
         7.11.4.3. Forward to sponsor's address if sponsor agrees;
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          249


       7.11.4.4. Retain at DFAS-DE until the member arrives at the gaining station and SG is processed.
       Upon processing of the SG, the LES is produced and mailed with the next month's production; or
       7.11.4.5. Forward to any other address specified by the member.
   7.11.5. Members Who Are TDY. If a member is TDY for an extended period of time, the TDY sta-
   tion FSO can process an LD01 or LD04 transaction. The LD01 or LD04 transaction will cause the
   member's LES to be routed to the TDY ADSN. Once an LD02 is processed, DFAS-DE will revert to
   sending the LES to the permanent ADSN.
   7.11.6. Members assigned to GSUs. If a member is assigned to a GSU, the servicing ADSN may
   request DFAS-DE mail the LESs to the GSU instead of mailing the statements to the servicing base
   who then forwards the LESs to the GSU. An SC04 transaction should be processed and a "B" placed
   in the LES/NPA-PRT-ID field. (See paragraph 7.18.) DFAS-DE/FJY must be notified and coordi-
   nated with before GSU changes are initiated. (See Figure 7.13.)
   7.11.7. Members Separating or Retiring. Members who are separating or retiring will have their
   LESs mailed to a designated address upon entering "V" status. The LF transaction provides the future
   mailing address where the member's final LES will be mailed. Ensure addresses contained in the LF
   entry are postal addresses. Members who are on terminal leave may elect to have their LESs mailed
   to their home address. The servicing FSO must input an SC04 transaction to update the member's
   JLES address file. (See paragraph 7.18. for mailing options.)

7.12. NPA Production:
   7.12.1. Mid-Month. At mid-month cutoff, DFAS-DE starts producing NPAs which are then mailed to
   the ADSN or the member. The NPA is issued at mid-month for twice-a-month payees. NPAs will be
   produced for once-a-month payees when remarks require it. Normally, a message will be sent to the
   field indicating NPAs were produced for once-a-month payees.
   7.12.2. Members in a TDY/PCS Status. If a member is in a TDY status, DFAS-DE will send the NPA
   to the servicing ADSN unless an LD01 or LD04 transaction is processed. When an LD01 or LD04 is
   processed, the NPA will be sent to the TDY ADSN. If a member is in PCS status, the servicing ADSN
   processes the SH transaction to update the MMPA accordingly. The member's NPA(s) will be recy-
   cled until the MMPA is updated with the new ADSN (SG and SC04 transactions). Upon input of the
   SC04 and SG transactions, the members' NPAs will be produced and mailed with the next monthly
   production.

7.13. SC04 Transaction (JDC II and JDC III). This transaction is used to update data on the JLES
address file at DFAS-DE and can only be input by the servicing FSO or DFAS-DE. The data on the JLES
address file is used to distribute LESs, NPAs, W-2s and PSMCs. (See Figure 7.13. for SC04 format.)
DFAS-DE creates a quarterly management notice report that is titled "Inaccurate Delivery Addresses
Requiring Research and Correction" PCN UH099C0311. This report is created on a quarterly basis
and reflects addresses that have failed the bump against the address file called "FINALIST." This file,
maintained at DFAS-DE, is certified by the United States Postal Service and is a commercially developed
database for zip codes and addresses. During the bump process, the members' addresses (JLES, bonds,
and allotments) will be checked for accuracy, and whenever possible, an SC04 or AA04 will be systemat-
ically generated to place the correct version of the address on the MMPA or the JLES file. For addresses
that "FINALIST" finds unacceptable, the above report will be created. The report will identify which
250                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


address needs to be corrected by noting the type as "JL" for JLES, "AB" for bonds, etc. The report will be
personalized for each ADSN/DSSN. The time frame for corrections before the next bump will be approx-
imately 70 calendar days to contact the member, obtain a precise address, and input a more accurate
address.

7.14. myPay.
      7.14.1. General. In January 2001, the Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) implemented
      myPay, allowing members to update certain pay information by accessing the pay system via the
      internet. Screen menus guide members through desired transactions once the system has been
      accessed. After changes have been made, the system asks the member to confirm the action and
      advises the member when the change will be reflected on the pay record. Using a personal identifica-
      tion number (PIN), members are able to:
         7.14.1.1. View, print, and save leave and earnings statements (LES)
         7.14.1.2. View, print and save tax statements
         7.14.1.3. Change Federal and State tax withholdings
         7.14.1.4. Update bank account and electronic fund transfer information
         7.14.1.5. Make address changes
         7.14.1.6. View, print, and save travel vouchers – currently, LeaveWeb does not feed information
         to myPay, so it is not available to Air Force, but the capability exists in myPay.
         7.14.1.7. Control Thrift Savings Plan enrollment
         7.14.1.8. View, print, and save retiree account statement
         7.14.1.9. View, print and save annuitant account statement
         7.14.1.10. Annuitants are able to provide report of existence and update certificate of eligibility
         7.14.1.11. Turn off hard-copy LES – mandatory for AF members
         7.14.1.12. Turn off hard-copy W-2 tax statements – mandatory for AF members
         7.14.1.13. Change personal identification number (PIN)
         7.14.1.14. View 12 months of LES data
         7.14.1.15. Start, stop and change financial allotments. Allotments can only be established to
         financial institutions. Insurance and bond allotments are not available at this time, but should be
         in the future.
         7.14.1.16. Establish a restricted access personal identification number. This allows members to
         provide a spouse or trusted individual with a view-only PIN. For more information on the
         restricted access PIN, see subparagraph 7.14.3. (obtaining a PIN) below.
         7.14.1.17. Establish a personal e-mail address for future correspondence. The e-mail address will
         be used to keep members apprised of future events and capabilities, such as e-mail notification of
         pay changes and other items of interest. Members can provide the e-mail address by setting up the
         "personal settings" page.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           251


   7.14.2. FSO Responsibilities. When a member makes a change to his/her financial information via
   myPay, a transaction is created in DJMS to update the member’s record. These transactions will have
   an input source of 3848 and those that process will appear in section 6 of the servicing FSO’s DTR as
   well as the DTR for 3848.
       7.14.2.1. Rejected myPay transactions are reflected in the E/MSS Daily Transaction Report,
       PCN: UH099CA12, Section II, via the FACA03D report in SAR, and must be resolved by the ser-
       vicing FSO. Contact the member and determine what the member wanted to accomplish and rein-
       put the transaction to update the pay record accordingly.
       7.14.2.2. When processing the SC04 transaction to change a member’s address (most often at
       PCS arrival, but whenever an SC04 is processed), ensure that character position 23 contains an
       "N" to ensure the myPay electronic pay statements remain in place rather than allowing hard copy
       pay statements to be turned back on.
   7.14.3. Obtaining a PIN. To obtain a PIN, the member selects "new PIN" under the "Need a new
   PIN?" title in the lower section of the myPay home page. The member will be prompted to enter SSN
   and then receive instructions based on the information available for that specific member. In most
   cases, the PIN will be mailed to the member’s address of record or e-mailed to a pre-registered
   address. Additional instructions are available within myPay. Restricted access PINs (see item 16
   above) are obtained and used as follows:
       7.14.3.1. The restricted PIN can be set by signing into myPay and from the main menu, clicking
       on the "Personal Settings" page. Member must click the "Restricted Access PIN" to create and
       input the restricted access PIN and provide it to the spouse/family member/trusted individual.
       7.14.3.2. For the spouse/family member to use the restricted access PIN, the individual signs into
       myPay with the member’s SSN under "LOGINID" and then enters the restricted access PIN pro-
       vided by the member. With the restricted access PIN, the spouse or family member can view and
       print the LES and W2 but cannot make pay changes.
       7.14.3.3. An ‘alias’ LOGIN-ID is now available, allowing a member to establish a unique
       LOGIN-ID other than his/her SSN, which can be used, along with the PIN, to access myPay. This
       LOGIN-ID must be 6-8 alpha/numeric characters with no special characters or spaces. If a cus-
       tomer establishes a LOGIN-ID, the SSN can no longer be used to access the myPay account. The
       link to establish a LOGIN-ID ‘alias’ is on the personal settings page.
   7.14.4. Turning off hard copy LES. Delivery of an electronic LES eliminates risks associated with
   receiving financial information in the mail. To turn off hard copy LES, the member must click on the
   "turn off hard copy" button on the LES screen.
   7.14.5. Customer Support. Help with the myPay applications is available online at HTTP://
   WWW.DFAS.MIL/MYPAY/MYPAYFEEDBACK.HTM. The customer support number is
   1-800-390-2348, Monday through Friday between 7 a.m. and 7:30 p.m. EST.

7.15. Reserved for Future Use.

7.16. Reserved for Future Use.
   7.16.1. DELETED.
       7.16.1.1. DELETED
252                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      7.16.2. DELETED
        7.16.2.1. DELETED

7.17. Reserved for Future Use.
      7.17.1. DELETED
      7.17.2. DELETED

7.18. Sort Sequence. The LES and NPA statements are sorted at DFAS-DE according to indicators on a
member's JLES address file. The SITE-ID, MAIL-OPT-ID, LES/NPA-PRT-ID, and STREET fields are
all used in the sort process.
      7.18.1. DELETED
      7.18.2. DELETED
        7.18.2.1. DELETED
        7.18.2.2. DELETED
           7.18.2.2.1. DELETED
           7.18.2.2.2. DELETED
      7.18.3. DELETED
        7.18.3.1. DELETED
        7.18.3.2. DELETED
        7.18.3.3. DELETED

7.19. Reserved for Future Use.

7.20. Central Site Unit Address File. This file (JBIT) is used to update the JLES with literal titles for a
member's unit of assignment. The file must contain a four-position organization code and literal name for
all organizations serviced by the finance office. Access the file by signing on to CICSJ3 and keying:
JBIT. The prompted screens are self explanatory. Ensure the file is kept current. Reference the PCN500
report in paragraph 7.20.2. above
      7.20.1. DELETED.
      7.20.2. DELETED
        7.20.2.1. DELETED
        7.20.2.2. DELETED
        7.20.2.3. DELETED
        7.20.2.4. DELETED
        7.20.2.5. DELETED
           7.20.2.5.1. DELETED
           7.20.2.5.2. DELETED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            253


           7.20.2.5.3. DELETED
           7.20.2.5.4. DELETED
           7.20.2.5.5. DELETED
           7.20.2.5.6. DELETED
   7.20.3. DELETED

Section 7C—Systems Related to LES Production.

7.21. JLES History File. The JLES System contains 4 applications which are described below.
   7.21.1. JLES-History Display System. During EOM processing every month copies of all member
   LESs are created and stored on this file. This includes normal end-of-month and separation LESs.
   End-of-month LESs are easily distinguished by the 98 in the day-of-the month field (example
   930898). A separation LES will contain numbers 01-25 in the day field (example 930813). History
   LESs for the most recent 13 months are maintained on this file. LESs older than 13 months are moved
   to the JLES-Archive Print System. (NOTE: only the first 10 months are visible to the user; pressing
   PF8 will take the user to the next screen.)
   7.21.2. JLES-Address Display System. This file contains the mailing address of all members. The
   SC04 and LG04 transactions update member addresses. (Reference Figure 7.13. and paragraph
   7.13.2.)
   7.21.3. JLES-Remark Display System. This file contains the remarks used on the LES. FSOs can
   view this file, while update access is restricted to DFAS-DE. The remarks contained on this file are
   the remarks generated by DJMS and are NOT the same as the remarks covered in paragraph 7.8.
   7.21.4. JLES-Archive Print System. Archive prints of past LESs may be obtained through this
   option. LESs as far back as October 1992 may be obtained from this file. Prints of this file will go to
   the printer that receives the JLES History prints. If your base does not receive the requested LES
   prints, contact DFAS-DE/FJGC.

7.22. Offline Reporting System. The Offline Reporting System has replaced most of the products
received from the old base level system. Reference Chapter 6 for specific applications that are available.
All of the information used in the Offline Reporting system is extracted from the JLES system.
254                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 7.1. DFAS Form 702, Defense Finance and Accounting Service Military Leave and Earn-
ings Statement.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               255


Figure 7.2. DFAS Form 703, Defense Finance and Accounting Service Military Net Pay Advice.
256                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 7.3. AF Form 1121, Payment Suppression Register (JUMPS).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     257


Figure 7.4. LES Address Verification, Part I.


AS OF: 16/08/1995                   LES ADDRESS VERIFICATION       PGM: LESSC001
ADSN: XXXX                                                         PCN: UH099C500


                                           PART I
                                PERSONNEL NOT SERVICED BY BITS



        ORGANIZATION


        CODE                      NAME                SSAN         NAME


        FBBP              ////              BBP       123456789    SMITH
        FBB1              ////              BB1       234567890    JONES
        FBB1              ////              BB1       012345678    SMITH
        FBB1              ////              BB1       001234567    JONES
        FBB6              DIA AFELM         BB6       987654321    SMITH
        FBB6              497TH INTEL       BJC       876543210    JONES


KEYS:     <PF3> = EXIT        <PF7> = PAGE BACKWARD     <PF8> = PAGE FORWARD
258                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 7.5. LES Address Verification, Part II.


AS OF: 16/08/1995               LES ADDRESS VERIFICATION       PGM: LESSC002
ADSN: XXXX                                                     PCN: UH099C500


                                      PART II
                     MISSING UNIT ADDRESS-SERVICED BY BITS



        SSAN          NAME                 SSAN   NAME         SSAN       NAME
        -------------------
        321321321     HOBBS




KEYS:     <PF3> = EXIT        <PF7> = PAGE BACKWARD        <PF8> = PAGE FORWARD
                                       END OF REPORT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                 259


Figure 7.6. LES Address Verification, Part III, Section I.


AS OF: 16/08/1995                LES ADDRESS VERIFICATION               PGM: LESSC003
ADSN: XXXX                                                              PCN: UH099C500


                                      PART III
                       MMPA - LES ADDRESS FILE MISMATCH
           SECTION I - ACTIVE DUTY MEMBER - NO LES ADDRESS FOUND


        SSAN          NAME                  SSAN             NAME       SSAN       NAME
        -------------------
        234567890     JONES
        098765432     SMITH
        123456789     CHOW
        876876876     GARNE




KEYS:     <PF3> = EXIT        <PF7> = PAGE BACKWARD                 <PF8> = PAGE FORWARD
                                       END OF REPORT
260                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 7.7. LES Address Verification, Part III, Section II.


AS OF: 16/08/1995              LES ADDRESS VERIFICATION           PGM: LESSC004
ADSN: XXXX                                                        PCN: UH099C500


                                      PART III
                       MMPA - LES ADDRESS FILE MISMATCH



        SECTION II - MMPA/LES ADDRESS FILE - LOCATION NOT EQUAL


                                           LC/LD        MPF       UNIT      ADDRESS FILE
        SSAN              NAME             ADSN         CODE        ID      REFLECTS
        002002002         SMITH            5037                               5282
        002001001         JONES                                   FQ1D        FLFY
        876887676         CHOW                                                FJS1
        006006006         REXRE                         AU                    HH




KEYS:     <PF3> = EXIT        <PF7> = PAGE BACKWARD            <PF8> = PAGE FORWARD
                                       END OF REPORT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       261


Figure 7.8. LES Address Verification, Part IV.


AS OF: 16/08/1995                   LES ADDRESS VERIFICATION    PGM: LESSC005
ADSN: XXXX                                                      PCN: UH099C500


                                           PART IV
                        UNIT ADDRESS FILE/LES ADDRESS FILE MISMATCH



  ORG-CODE     ORG-NAME   SSAN                   NAME    ORG-CODE      ORG-NAME
NOT FOUND               002003002                SMITH   FB40 HQ USAF AA B40
NOT FOUND               008009008                JONES   FZ5H 201 AIRLIFT Z5H
   FBJC 497TH INTEL BJC 001002003                THOMS   FBJC




KEYS:    <PF3> = EXIT        <PF7> = PAGE BACKWARD       <PF8> = PAGE FORWARD
                                                                         MORE
262                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 7.9. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Canceled or Undeliverable Checks - Member's
Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5        0C103/06 OR AC105 (ONE TRAILER RECORD


       6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25       YYMMDD OF DATE OF COLLECTION VOUCHER


      27-30       ACCOUNTABLE ADSN – ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                  FROM INPUT FSO OTHERWISE, BLANK


      31-38       COLLECTION VOUCHER NUMBER


      39-45       AMOUNT OF COLLECTION IN DOLLARS AND CENTS

      46-48       CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                  510 – OFFICER
                  530 – ENLISTED


      49-50       FORMAT-ID OF PAYMENT BEING CANCELED:
                  PA--ADVANCE PAY
                  PB--ARREARS OF PAY
                  PC--CASUAL PAY
                  PD--CLASS X ALLOTMENT
                  PF--PAY HELD (RELEASE)
                  PG--BASIC TRAINING
                  PJ--CONTINUATION PAY
                  PK--PARTIAL PAY
                  PL--SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS
                  PM--REGULAR REENLISTMENT BONUS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                263


                 PN--REGULAR MID-MONTH PAY
                 PH--REGULAR END-OF-MONTH PAY, PRIOR MONTH
                 PQ--SEPARATION PAY
                 PV--COMFORT ITEMS PAY


      51-58      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER OF CANCELED OR UNDELIVERABLE
                 CHECK


      59-64      YYMMDD OF DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER

       66        FOR DFAS-DE USE ONLY (INDICATES REASON FOR CHECK
                 CANCELLATION)


                 NOTE: A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH
                 THE A CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD
                 CONTAINS THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.




Figure 7.10. Format to Change Paying ADSN.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0LB04

      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE


      32-35      NEW PAYING ADSN
264                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 7.11. Format to Change Servicing ADSN.


 CHARACTER                                       DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5        0LC04


       6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE


      32-35       NEW SERVICING ADSN




Figure 7.12. Format to Suppress Local Payment.


 CHARACTER                                       DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5        0P103/0P203

       6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-23       YEAR AND MONTH SUPPRESSION IS EFFECTIVE


       24         PAYDAY INDICATOR:
                  M--MID-MONTH
                  E--END-OF-MONTH
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    265


Figure 7.13. Format to Change LES Address Update.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5          ASC04 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14        SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20         MAIL-OPTN-IND:
                  1--IF MEMBER IS NOT SERVICED BY BITS OR IF MEMBER IS TO RECEIVE
                  MAIL AT A PSC BOX
                  0--IF MEMBER IS SERVICED BY BITS
                  BLANK IF NO CHANGE


       21         SITE-ID:
                  0 THRU 9—IDENTIFIES MEMBERS SERVICED BY AGENT/GSU
                  *--DELETES SITE-ID FROM LES ADDRESS FILE
                  BLANK FOR NO CHANGE


       22         W2-PRT-IND
                  Y--TO RECEIVE ELECTRONIC AND HARD COPY W-2
                  N--FOR ELECTRONIC DELIVERY ONLY, NO HARD COPY PRINTED
                  BLANK--WILL NOT OVERLAY PRIOR W-2 PRINT OPTION

       23         LES-NPA-PRINT-ID:
                  A--TO RECEIVE LES/NPA DURING PSC
                  B--DFAS-DE TO PRINT LES/NPA FOR MEMBER ASSIGNED TO GSU
                  C--CENTRAL SITE PRINTING OF PAY STATEMENTS
                  L--LOCAL PRINTING OF PAY STATEMENTS
                  N--SHUTS OFF THE PRINTING OF THE LES/NPA
                  *--OVERLAYS ANY PRIOR OPTION WITH A SPACE
                  BLANK--LEAVES WHATEVER WAS ON THE RECORD AS IS - WILL NOT
                  OVERLAY THE CURRENT INFORMATION IN THE LES-NPA-PRINT-IND
                  FIELD
266                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
    24-67     ADDRESS: STREET ADDRESS (NUMBER AND STREET), APARTMENT OR
              BOX NUMBER (MAX 29 POSITIONS); FOLLOWED BY * (ASTERISK) AS A
              SEPARATOR, THEN CITY (MAX 20 POSITIONS) FOLLOWED BY A SPACE
              AND TWO-CHARACTER STATE CODE; STATE CODE IS FOLLOWED BY
              THE ZIP CODE (NO SPACE BETWEEN STATE CODE AND ZIP CODE).
              SECOND RECORD IS USED TO COMPLETE ADDRESS (TOTAL POSITIONS
              ON BOTH RECORDS CANNOT EXCEED 58 POSITIONS). APO/FPO
              FOLLOW STREET ADDRESS LINE WITH PORT CITY, SPACE, APO/FPO
              CODE. BLANK IF NO CHANGE. (SEE NOTE)


      68-80   COMMON DATA


       1-5    1SC04 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-33   BALANCE OF ADDRESS


       34     MIL-TITLE-IND:
              Y--IF MEMBER DESIRES TO HAVE MILITARY TITLE APPEAR ON LES/NPA
              *--TO DELETE TITLE
              BLANK FOR NO CHANGE


      35-47   FILLER—LEAVE BLANK


      48-52   OFFICE-SYMBOL: MEMBER'S OFFICE SYMBOL OR BLANK FOR NO
              CHANGE


       53     GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
              F—(COMPUTER GENERATED)


      54-55   CBPO NUMBER. MAY BE BLANK, BUT IF FILLED, BOTH POSITIONS
              MUST BE PRESENT.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           267


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
    56-59     BLANK


     60-63    ORG CODE


     64-65    GOLD FLOW COUNTRY. MAY BE BLANK, BUT IF FILLED, BOTH
              POSITIONS MUST BE PRESENT


      66      IBP SUPPLEMENTAL CATEGORY
              A—PAYMENT TO U.S. PERSONNEL ABROAD
              N—PAY MAILED TO U.S. FOR PERSONNEL ABROAD
              BLANK IF MEMBER IS ASSIGNED IN U.S


      67       ZERO IF MEMBER IS SUBJECT TO PRA AUDIT
               *--TO DELETE INDICATOR
               BLANK FOR NO CHANGE


               NOTE: PSC ADDRESS FORMAT MUST BE:


     68-80    COMMON DATA


     24-26     PSC


     28-31    FOUR NUMERIC PSC NUMBER


     33-35    BOX


     37-41    FIVE NUMERIC BOX NUMBER


               (EXAMPLE: PSC 001 BOX 00032)
268                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                  Chapter 8

                              BASIC PAY AND SPECIAL COMPENSATION

8.1. Description. Basic pay is established on a member's MMPA based on event-oriented transactions
covered in other chapters. Individuals holding certain positions are entitled to rates of basic pay other
than that for their grade and longevity. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 1.

8.2. Source of Input. Basic Pay is started, stopped or changed based on event-oriented transactions
received from AFPC. Processed transactions will appear as FID 01 on the DTL, section 6.

8.3. Rate. Initial rate of basic pay is established based on grade and years of creditable service completed
at the time the individual is accessed to the Air Force. The rate is adjusted or stopped by other events such
as:
      8.3.1. Promotion or demotion
      8.3.2. Completion of additional years of creditable service (longevity)
      8.3.3. Non-pay status conditions (AWOL, desertion, excess leave, etc.)
      8.3.4. Basic pay rate changes authorized by Congress
      8.3.5. Separation
      8.3.6. Correction of service dates from MPF
      8.3.7. Assignment to designated positions

8.4. Additional Compensation for Designated Positions. Individuals serving in the following posi-
tions may be authorized special rates of basic pay in accordance with the DoDFMR. They may also be
authorized Personal Money Allowance in addition to the special Basic Pay Rate. (See Chapter 34.)
      8.4.1. Chief of Staff
      8.4.2. Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
      8.4.3. Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
      8.4.4. Permanent Professor at United States Air Force Academy
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           269


                                               Chapter 9

                                    SPECIAL PAYS - GENERAL

9.1. Description. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 01 through 21, for conditions of entitlement to
special pays. Processed transactions start, change, correct or cancel the entitlement and update the
MMPA. Once established, computer programming adjusts payment amounts based on years of service
completed without additional input. For information on SAVE PAY, see Chapter 75 of this volume.

9.2. Payment. Input establishes necessary entries to generate payment authorization. FSO makes pay-
ments as outlined in Chapter 37 of this volume.

9.3. Recoupment. In the event the individual separates before completion of service outlined in the con-
tract, the unearned portion is recouped per the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 5, 6 or 21. For all special
pay, except for recoupment of medical officer bonuses, DJMS will automatically calculate the amount of
recoupment required based on the separation designator furnished by AFPC.

9.4. Effect on MMPA. Processed transactions will appear in section 6 of the servicing FSO's DTR for all
medical special pays except optometry pay, which appears in section 4. Any FSO may make and report
these payments if the pay authorization is present on the MMPA, provided evidence exists to attest to the
fact the payment was not made by another FSO.
270                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                Chapter 10

             SPECIAL PAY FOR MEDICAL AND DENTAL OFFICERS AND NURSES

10.1. Description. Conditions of entitlement for the following special pays are found in the DoDFMR,
Volume 7A, chapters 1 through 21.
      10.1.1. Variable Special Pay (VSP)--payable to physicians/dentists.
      10.1.2. Board Certification Pay (BCP)--payable to physicians/dentists.
      10.1.3. Additional Special Pay (ASP)--payable to physicians/dentists.
      10.1.4. Incentive Special Pay (ISP)--payable to physicians.
      10.1.5. Monthly Special Pay--payable to optometrists.
      10.1.6. Continuation Pay--payable to dentists.
      10.1.7. Multi-Year Special Pay (MSP)--payable to physicians.
      10.1.8. Incentive Special Pay for Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNA)--payable to eligi-
      ble nurses.
      10.1.9. Registered Nurse Accession Bonus--payable to eligible nurses.
      10.1.10. Dental Officer Accession Bonus--payable to eligible dentists.
      10.1.11. Dental Multiyear Rentention Bonus - payable to eligible dentists.

10.2. Source of Input. All Medical/Dental/Nurse special pay transactions are input to DJMS by AFPC.
Processed transactions start, change, correct, or cancel the entitlements and update the MMPA for pay
computation. When a physician/dentist reaches the necessary years that require an adjustment in pay for
VSP or BCP, computer programming adjusts the pay without any external input. For conditions and com-
putation of SAVE PAY, see Chapter 75.

10.3. Variable Special Pay (VSP). Payable to physicians/dentists based on training status and years of
creditable medical service. MMPA shows VSP as FID 24 for physicians and FID 20 for dentists.

10.4. Board Certification Pay (BCP). Payable to physicians/dentists who are board certified. Officers
must be established as physicians/dentists before the BCP is entered on their MMPAs. If the FID 19
(BCP) is received before FID's 24 or 20 (VSP), the BCP will recycle at 7-day intervals for 49 days. If a
physician/dentist reaches the applicable years of medical/dental service or certification expiration date,
the rate is increased or discontinued programmatically.

10.5. Additional Special Pay (ASP). Payable to physicians/dentists who are not in internship or initial
residency training and sign a written agreement to remain on active duty for a period of 1 year from the
contract effective date. A processed transaction will place this entitlement on the MMPA, create an R2
entry showing the effective date, and generate a PJ payment authorization. Payment is made annually in
advance as a lump sum and shown on the MMPA as FID 25. Continuation Pay for dental officers is pay-
able to dentists who qualify under the saved pay provisions of the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 6, at the
rates prescribed. It is shown on the MMPA as FID 25.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              271


10.6. Incentive Special Pay (ISP). Congress revised the ISP program effective 1 January 1991 so that
eligible physicians may sign multi-year contracts (1, 2, 3, or 4 years). The initial payment is paid upon
execution of the contract, and subsequent installments are made on the anniversary date of the contract. A
processed transaction will place the entitlement on the MMPA as FID 25, create an RC bonus entry, and
generate a PJ payment authorization.

10.7. Optometry Pay. Payable monthly to optometrists on active duty for a period of at least 1 year.
Shown on the MMPA as FID 29.

10.8. Multi-Year Special Pay (MSP). Payable to eligible physicians below the grade of 07, with at least
8 years' creditable service, who will have completed initial residency training or will complete such train-
ing before September 30th of the fiscal year in which the officer enters into an MSP agreement, and are
fully qualified in a designated specialty. Officers must execute a written agreement to remain on active
duty for at least 2 years but no more than 4 years after completion of any active duty service commitment
for medical education or training. MSP contracts will be payable in equal annual installments. The initial
annual installment will be paid upon execution of the MSP service agreement. Payments of subsequent
installment amounts will be made on the anniversary date of the agreement. A processed transaction will
place the entitlement on the MMPA as FID 25, create an RB entry, and generate a PJ payment authoriza-
tion.

10.9. Incentive Special Pay for Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNA). A n u r s e c o r p s
officer who is qualified and performing as a CRNA may be paid incentive special pay for each year of a
properly executed written agreement to serve on active duty at a rate prescribed in the DoDFMR, Volume
7A, chapter 21. The officer must agree to remain on active duty for a period of not less than one year. The
effective date of the agreement shall be prescribed in Military Department regulations issued by the Sec-
retary concerned and shall be included in the agreement. Subject to mutual acceptance, an officer may
execute a two year agreement. Under such agreements, payments shall be made at the beginning of the
agreement and on the one year anniversary date. A processed transaction will place the entitlement on the
MMPA as FID 25, create an RD entry, and generate a PJ payment authorization.

10.10. Dental Multiyear Retention Bonus. A dental officer, who executes a written agreement which is
accepted by the secretary of the military department concerned, may be paid a retention bonus per eligi-
bility criteria and rates payable as prescribed in DoDFMR, Vol 7A, chapter 6.

10.11. Nurse Accession Bonuses.
   10.11.1. Registered Nurse Accession Bonus. A nurse who qualifies for appointment as a nurse corps
   officer and executes a written agreement to accept a commission and serve on active duty as a nurse
   corps officer for a period of not less than four years, may, upon acceptance of the agreement by the
   Secretary concerned, be paid a lump sum accession bonus at a rate prescribed in the DoDFMR, Vol-
   ume 7A, chapter 21. A personnel generated transaction will place the entitlement on the MMPA as
   FID 26, create an RE entry, and generate a PJ payment authorization.
   10.11.2. Dental Officer Accession Bonus. A dental officer who executes a written agreement to
   accept a commission as an officer of the Air Force designated as a dental officer, to serve on active
   duty for a period of not less than four years, and upon acceptance of the agreement of the service Sec-
   retary, is entitled to dental officer accession bonus. The individual must not have received financial
272                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      assistance from the Department of Defense for this specialty prior to appointment as a dental officer.
      Policy for this entitlement is contained in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 6. A personnel gener-
      ated transaction will place the entitlement on the MMPA as FID 26, create an RE entry, and generate
      a PJ payment authorization. (Reference Figure 10.6.)

10.12. Payment of Bonus. For central payees, the installments of any of the bonuses discussed in this
chapter are released from the DFAS Central Site through the electronic funds transfer system (EFTS) on
the effective dates. Local payees are paid via the one-time pay authorization list at base level. When a
member is paid by EFTS, base level is notified by message on the one-time pay authorization list, instead
of receiving a pay authorization to make payment locally. Members in a TDY or PCS status, who are cen-
tral payees, will receive their installments by EFTS. Locally paid members, who are TDY, may receive
those payments from the TDY FSO. Locally paid members, who are in PCS status may be paid the
installments by any FSO since no pay authorization will be issued. In this case, gaining FSOs should
determine if the payment was made by another FSO before routinely issuing a bonus payment.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         273


Figure 10.1. Formats to Start/Change, Correct or Cancel Board Certification Pay.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       01901/04


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


     33-38       YYMMDD OF BOARD CERTIFICATION EXPIRATION DATE OR ZEROS


       1-5       01905


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


     33-38       ZEROS


     56-61       YYMMDD OF PRIOR DATE START (MUST BE PRESENT)


       1-5       01906


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD OF ENTRY TO BE CANCELED
274                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 10.2. Formats to Start, Correct or Cancel Variable Special Pay (Dentist).


 CHARACTER                                        DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5        02001


      6-14        SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25       YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


      33-38       YYMMDD OF MEDICAL SERVICE PAY DATE


      39-44       YYMMDD INTERNSHIP TRAINING WILL BE COMPLETED OR ZEROS IF
                  NOT IN TRAINING


       1-5        02005


      6-14        SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25       CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START

      33-38       CORRECT YYMMDD OF MEDICAL SERVICE PAY DATE OR ZEROS IF NOT
                  BEING CORRECTED


      39-44       CORRECT YYMMDD OF INTERNSHIP TRAINING WILL BE COMPLETED OR
                  ZEROS IF NOT BEING CORRECTED OR IF MEMBER NOT IN TRAINING


      56-64       YYMMDD OF PRIOR DATE START


       1-5        02006


      6-14        SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                           275


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF ENTRY BEING CANCELED
276                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 10.3. Formats to Start, Correct or Cancel Variable Special Pay (Physicians).


 CHARACTER                                       DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       02401


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


      33-38      YYMMDD OF MEDICAL SERVICE PAY DATE


      39-44      YYMMDD INTERNSHIP TRAINING WILL BE COMPLETED OR ZEROS IF
                 NOT IN TRAINING


       1-5       02405


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START

      26-32      FILLER


      33-38      CORRECT YYMMDD OF MEDICAL SERVICE PAY DATE OR ZEROS IF NOT
                 BEING CORRECTED


      39-44      CORRECT YYMMDD INTERNSHIP TRAINING WILL BE COMPLETED OR
                 ZEROS IF NOT BEING CORRECTED OR IF MEMBER NOT IN TRAINING


      56-64      YYMMDD OF PRIOR DATE START
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                           277


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     1-5     02406


     6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF ENTRY BEING CANCELED
278                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 10.4. Format to Report/Cancel ASP, ISP, MSP, CRNA or DMRB.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      02503/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONTRACT


      26-31     YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE FOR START OF MSP OBLIGATION (BLANK
                FOR ASP/IS/CRNA OR CANCEL)


       32       NUMBER OF YEARS CONTRACT FOR DMRB CAN BE 2, 3, OR 4.


      34-38     AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-ENTITLEMENT: IF ENTITLEMENT FOR ISP/MSP/CRNA
                AMOUNT PAYABLE IN WHOLE DOLLARS; BLANK FOR ASP OR CANCEL


       39       MEDICAL-INCENTIVE-PAY-CODE:
                A--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY (ASP)
                I--INCENTIVE SPECIAL PAY (ISP)
                R--MULTI-YEAR SPECIAL PAY (MSP)
                N--CERTIFIED REGISTERED NURSE ANESTHETISTS (CRNA)
                D--DENTAL MULTIYEAR RETENTION BONUS (DMRB)


      40-45     YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE STOP DATE OF ASP/ISP/MSP/CRNA; BLANK FOR
                CANCEL


                FOR CANCEL, CP 20-25 AND CP 39 WILL CONTAIN THE SAME DATA AS IN
                THE TRANSACTION BEING CANCELED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              279


Figure 10.5. Formats to Correct or Initiate Accelerated ASP, ISP, MSP, CRNA. or DMRB.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       02505


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      CORRECT YYMMDD EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONTRACT


     26-31      CORRECT YYMMDD START OF MSP OBLIGATION; BLANK IF NOT BEING
                CORRECTED OR FOR ASP/ISP/CRNA


       32       NUMBER OF YEARS CONTRACT FOR DMRB CAN BE 2, 3, OR 4.


       39       MEDICAL-INCENTIVE-PAY-CODE:
                A--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY (ASP)
                I--INCENTIVE SPECIAL PAY (ISP)
                R--MULTI-YEAR SPECIAL PAY (MSP)
                N--CERTIFIED REGISTERED NURSE ANESTHETISTS (CRNA)
                D--DENTAL MULTIYEAR RETENTION BONUS (DMRB)

     40-45      CORRECT YYMMDD STOP DATE OF ASP/ISP/MSP/CRNA; BLANK IF NOT
                BEING CORRECTED


     56-61      ORIGINAL YYMMDD EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONTRACT


                2505 USED ONLY TO CORRECT DATES


      1-5       02513


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
280                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20     NUMBER OF INSTALLMENTS TO BE PAID (1, 2 OR 3)


      21-22   FISCAL YEAR OF FUNDS TO BE CHARGED


       23     MEDICAL-INCENTIVE-PAY-CODE:
              A--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY (ASP)
              I--INCENTIVE SPECIAL PAY (ISP)
              R--MULTI-YEAR SPECIAL PAY (MSP)
              N--CERTIFIED REGISTERED NURSE ANESTHETISTS (CRNA)
              D--MULTIYEAR RETENTION BONUS 9 (DMRB)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                      281


Figure 10.6. Format to Start Registered Nurse/Dental Officer Accession Bonus.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       02601


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONTRACT


       28        A = REGISTERED NURSE ACCESSION BONUS
                 B = DENTAL OFFICER ACCESSION BONUS


     29-35       AMOUNT OF THE ACCESSION BONUS
282                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 10.7. Formats to Start/Cancel or Correct Veterinary or Optometry Special Pay.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       02801/06 OR 02901/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      FOR 01--YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START
                 FOR 06--YYMMDD OF ENTRY BEING CANCELED


                 28--VETERINARY PAY
                 29--OPTOMETRY PAY


       1-5       02805/02905


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


      26-31      YYMMDD OF PRIOR DATE START (MUST BE PRESENT)


                 28--VETERINARY PAY
                 29--OPTOMETRY PAY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                      283


Figure 10.8. Format to Report/Correct or Cancel Payments of Continuation Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0PJ03/06 OR APJ05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD ) OR


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD OF DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26        GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B—ARMY
                 C—NAVY
                 D—MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 M--STATE DEPARTMENT


     27-30       ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                 FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31        OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

     32-39       VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-48       AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


     49-51       CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                 510—OFFICER
                 530—ENLISTED


       65        RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
284                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      67     CHECK DIGIT (COMPUTER GENERATED)


             NOTE: A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH
             THE A CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD
             CONTAINS THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                       285


Figure 10.9. Format to Release PJ Authorization.


 CHARACTER                                         DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0PJ26


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD OF ONE-TIME PAY AUTHORIZATION


       26        GOVERNMENT-AGENCY: A--AIR FORCE


     27-30       PAYING ADSN


     32-39       VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-48       AMOUNT OF ONE-TIME PAYMENT


     49-51       CLEARING-ACCOUNT-ID:
                 510—ENLISTED
                 530—OFFICER
286                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                Chapter 11

                                 SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY

11.1. Description. Special Duty Assignment Pay (SDAP) is authorized to entitled members proficient in
an Air Force designated military skill or assigned duties demanding an unusual degree of responsibility.
See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 8, for entitlement conditions.

11.2. Source of Input. Member's servicing Military Personnel Flight (MPF) submits SDAP data to
DFAS-DE. SDAP is shown on the MMPA as FID 30.
      11.2.1. DJMS generates and processes future transactions to stop terminated special duty assignment
      rates. No input or manual intervention is required.
      11.2.2. Processed transactions appear in section 6 of servicing FSO's DTR (Chapter 2).
      11.2.3. Due to the brownout of DJMS-AC, JDC/DMO has not been changed to accept all SDAP pro-
      ficiency pay type codes currently in use. Those codes that JDC/DMO will not accept are indicated in
      paragraph 11.3.2. below. If a pro pay type code is annotated as not in JDC/DMO, the workaround is
      for HQ AFPC to send a spreadsheet or case management system (CMS) case to DFAS-PMJ/DE for
      manual input. PMJ uses one of the acceptable pro pay type codes (see table 41 in JWMM) and the
      correct rate code from table 11 in JWMM to get the input accomplished. (NOTE: Effective 1 Octo-
      ber 2003, the Air Force eliminated several rate codes; and now uses only SD-1 through 6 for current
      processing.) Once that is done, the specialty type code is changed to the correct one. This does not
      cause a problem with the dollar amount paid to the member, but can cause a delay in the member
      receiving the SDAP.
      11.2.4. In most cases, members entitled to and receiving career enlisted flyer incentive pay (CEFIP)
      are not entitled to SDAP after February 2003. CEFIP is identified by a FID 12 entry on the MMPA,
      with crew status equal to 6.

11.3. SDAP Rates and Authorized Codes:
      11.3.1. Rate codes:


                                  Rate Code            Amount
                                      1          See JWMM, Table 11
                                      2          See JWMM, Table 11
                                      3          See JWMM, Table 11
                                      4          See JWMM, Table 11
                                      5          See JWMM, Table 11
                                      6          See JWMM, Table 11

NOTE: The rates are not included in the chapter to prevent these rates from differing from the actual
rates paid to members. The table is kept up to date and should be the source for this information.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              287


  11.3.2. Specialty Type Codes are as follows:


            Proficiency Pay      Description


               AA          =     White House Comm Agency
               AB          =     Defense Threat Reduction Agency (Formerly: On Site
                                 Inspection Agency)
               AC          =     Tactical Air Command and Control Personnel
               AD          =     Parachute Instructors
               AE          =     Helicopter (Formerly: Helicopter Flight Engineers)
               AF          =     Defense Courier Service
               AG          =     HQS Joint Special Operations Command
               AH          =     DET2, Special Ops Command Ops Staff
               AT          =     Air Transportation PAS-WG3VFR1M (Not in JDC/DMO)
               BB          =     Flying Crew Chiefs
               BG          =     7452 Special Activities Squadron
                C          =     Combat Controllers
               CM          =     Command CMSGT (Not in JDC/DMO)
               CW          =     Combat Weather Personnel (Not in JDC/DMO)
               FA          =     Forward Area Refueling Personnel
               FS          =     First Sergeant (Not in JDC/DMO)
               GK          =     Gate Keeper 108th ARW DET 2 (Not in JDC/DMO)
                H          =     Humint Linguist-Debriefers
               HO          =     HAF Operations
               HS          =     HAF Support
                 I         =     Military Training Instructor
               IA          =     Defense Attache Spec (Not in JDC/DMO)
               JO          =     Joint Communication Unit (Operational)
                JS         =     Joint Communication Unit (Support)
               NC          =     National Airborne OPS CTR (Not in JDC/DMO)
               NO          =     24 STS Operations (Formerly: NAFCOS Support (Special
                                 Tactics Squadron))
               NS          =     24 STS Support (Formerly: NAFCOS Support (Special
                                 Tactics Squadron))
                P          =     Pararescue
               PA          =     Public Affairs Personnel (Not in JDC/DMO)
288                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      Proficiency Pay   Description


        PR          =   Phoenix Raven (Not in JDC/DMO)
        PS          =   Postal Specialists (Not in JDC/DMO)
         R          =   Recruiters
        SI          =   AFOSI Special Agents (Not in JDC/DMO)
        TC          =   Air Traffic Controllers (Not in JDC/DMO)
        TN          =   TONAPAH
        TP          =   Test Parachute (Not in JDC/DMO)
        WD          =   Enlisted Weapons Director
        WH          =   White House Shelter Complex (Not in JDC/DMO)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  289


Figure 11.1. Formats to Start/Stop, Correct or Change/Cancel Special Duty Assignment Pay.


CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    1-5   03001/02


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST DAY
                THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD PAID (STOP)


      32        SPECIAL-DUTY-TYPE CODE: SEE PARA 11-3A; BLANK FOR ACTION
                INDICATOR 02. MUST = 1 THROUGH 6 (SEE TABLE 11 IN JWMM) IF AFTER
                30 SEP 03; FOR PAYMENTS PRIOR TO 1 OCT 03, RATE CODES A-E AND 7 ARE
                ACCEPTED.


     33-34      PROFICIENCY-PAY-TYPE CODE: CODE FROM PARAGRAPH 11-3B; BLANK
                FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02. IF PRO PAY TYPE CODE IS ONLY 1 POSITION,
                CHARACTER POSITION 34=BLANK.
      1-5       03005


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
                ZEROS


     26-31      DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR ZEROS


      32        SPECIAL-DUTY-TYPE CODE: SEE PARA 11-3A; BLANK FOR ACTION
                INDICATOR 02. MUST = 1 THROUGH 6 (SEE TABLE 11 IN JWMM) IF AFTER
                30 SEP 03; FOR PAYMENTS PRIOR TO 1 OCT 03, RATE CODES A-E AND 7 ARE
                ACCEPTED.
290                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   33-34  PROFICIENCY-PAY-TYPE CODE: CODE FROM PARAGRAPH 11-3B; BLANK
          FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02. IF PRO PAY TYPE CODE IS ONLY 1 POSITION,
          CHARACTER POSITION 34=BLANK.


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS


      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS
       1-5    03004/06


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT CHANGES OR ZEROS
              (IF ACTION INDICATOR 04, MUST BE A VALID DATE)


      26-31   DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS OR ZEROS
              (IF ACTION INDICATOR 04, MUST BE A VALID DATE)


       32     SPECIAL-DUTY-TYPE CODE: SEE PARA 11-3A; BLANK FOR ACTION
              INDICATOR 02. MUST = 1 THROUGH 6 (SEE TABLE 11 IN JWMM) IF AFTER
              30 SEP 03; FOR PAYMENTS PRIOR TO 1 OCT 03, RATE CODES A-E AND 7 ARE
              ACCEPTED.


      33-34   PROFICIENCY-PAY-TYPE CODE: CODE FROM PARAGRAPH 11-3B; BLANK
              FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02. IF PRO PAY TYPE CODE IS ONLY 1 POSITION,
              CHARACTER POSITION 34=BLANK.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               291


                                               Chapter 12

                         REENLISTMENT BONUS/ENLISTMENT BONUS

Section 12A—Enlistment Bonus.

12.1. Description. Enlistment or reenlistment bonuses may be authorized enlisted members who meet
certain conditions set forth by the Secretary of the Air Force and the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 9.

12.2. Source of Input:
   12.2.1. Initial Enlistment Bonus (SEB). MPF determines initial entitlement to IEB when member
   completes authorized training and is awarded the applicable Air Force specialty code (AFSC). MPF
   may cancel IEB if appropriate, by establishing a CMS case and referring it to the proper box at
   DFAS-DE.
   12.2.2. DELETED
   12.2.3. DELETED.

Section 12B—Reenlistment Bonus.

12.3. Source of Input:
   12.3.1. Selective Reenlistment Bonus (SRB). MPF determines initial entitlement to SRB when mem-
   ber separates with immediate reentry, shows SRB multiplier, and indicates lump-sum or installment
   payment in the separation/reenlistment input. DFAS-DE computer programs compute amount pay-
   able for both the initial payment and annual installments.
   12.3.2. Accelerated Selective Reenlistment Bonus. If a member's selective reenlistment bonus is set
   up for installment payments, early payment of unpaid balance or an installment may be authorized
   under AFI 36-2606. AFPC submits input to pay accelerated payment.
   12.3.3. Broken Service Selective Reenlistment Bonus (BSSRB). BSSRB is paid to members who
   have a break in service of more than 3 months but not more than 4 years in certain critical AFSCs.
   This bonus is based on the member's basic pay at the time of separation from service. MPF inputs an
   EC03 transaction to DFAS-DE to have the BSSRB posted to the member's MMPA. Since research is
   required to determine the member's basic pay at the time of separation, DFAS-DE will establish an
   ACCS case on receipt of the EC03. BSSRB is due the member 90 days after arrival at the first PDS.
   12.3.4. Selective Reenlistment, BSSRB Bonuses Unpaid at Separation. Special input is not required
   for payment of balance of SRB unpaid at separation. Separation program determines right to payment
   based on reason for separation. When unpaid SRB is payable, amount due is included in amount spec-
   ified in separation pay authorization.

12.4. DFAS-DE Output:
   12.4.1. SRB Installments. If the member is a central payee, then the anniversary payment is released
   on the effective date through electronic funds transfer system (EFTS) from the DFAS Central Site for
   the amount of installment, less tax if applicable. For local payees, DFAS-DE furnishes the FSO a pay
   authorization for the amount of installment, less tax if applicable, for payment on the effective date. If
292                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      member has lost time since last SRB installment was paid, effective date of pay authorization shows
      deferment of that installment by number of days lost.
      12.4.2. Accelerated SRB. Request for accelerated SRB payment generates an EFTS payment from
      DFAS for central payees or a pay authorization to the FSO for local payees. The EFTS payment or the
      pay authorization to the FSO is an amount less applicable tax deductions as computed from the data in
      MMPA.

12.5. FSO Action on DFAS-DE Output:
      12.5.1. Separation/Reenlistment Output. Required actions in connection with DFAS-DE output from
      separation/reenlistment transactions are in Chapter 53.
      12.5.2. Later Bonus Pay Authorizations:
         12.5.2.1. Payment. For local payees, when FSO receives a pay authorization for an SRB install-
         ment, or accelerated SRB, pay member amount shown in pay authorization. Do not make pay-
         ment before effective date shown in pay authorization.
         12.5.2.2. Report of Payment. Report payment to DFAS-DE as shown in Chapter 53.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             293


                                               Chapter 13

                  HOSTILE FIRE (HFP) AND IMMINENT DANGER PAY (IDP)

13.1. Description. Members permanently assigned, PCS, or TDY in areas designated in the DoDFMR,
Volume 7A, chapter 10, and meeting the conditions of entitlement outlined in that chapter, are entitled to
imminent danger pay (IDP). Members in a non-designated area who are involved in a hostile fire pay
incident can receive hostile fire pay (HFP). Members can be paid either HFP or IDP, but not both in the
same month.

13.2. Source of Input. The FSO is the source of input for entitlement to either HFP or IDP. FID 23 is
used with qualifiers indicating whether the entitlement is to HFP or IDP and under what conditions.
   13.2.1. 2301 (IDP start) establishes entitlement for an indefinite period. Creates open FID 23 and
   FID BS. An open FID FL is created if HFP-IDP-QUALFR is 2, 4, or 6. COUNTRY-CODE and
   period of entitlement verified by on-line table 054, IDP Countries. (See Figure 13.1.)
   13.2.2. 2302 (IDP stop) terminates entitlement to IDP if member becomes ineligible.* (See Figure
   13.1.)
   13.2.3. 2303 (HFP or IDP report) credits member with a one-time entitlement to HFP or IDP and is
   used only with inclusive dates.* (See Figure 13.2.)
   13.2.4. 2305 (HFP or IDP correct) corrects an error in a previous transaction. (See Figure 13.3.)
   13.2.5. 2306 (HFP or IDP cancel) cancels entitlement to HFP or IDP previously submitted. (See Fig-
   ure 13.2.)
NOTE: *If a 2302 or 2303 transaction is received with a stop date in the current processing month, the
transaction will appear in section 8 of the DTR and process on the first calendar day of the following
month.

13.3. Substantiating Documents. Unit or Air Crew Commanders must authorize these entitlements,
based on knowledge of a specific incident in a non-designated area or knowledge of a member’s duty in a
designated area. Do not include or attach classified or sensitive information to the substantiating or sup-
porting document.
   13.3.1. HFP should be reported on an AF Form 1881, Hostile Fire Pay Certification and MPO. When
   an AF Form 1881 is not available, DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, may be substituted, if it includes
   all pertinent information contained on the AF Form 1881 including: SSN, name, grade, organization,
   DoDFMR, Volume 7A Qualifying Rule, qualified inclusive period (From/To), description, location,
   time and date of incident, and certifying official’s name, position, grade, signature and date.
   13.3.2. IDP can be reported on an AF Form 1881 or published orders that reference a duty location in
   a designated area (per: DoDFMR Volume 7A, figure 10-1) and DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or
   Sub-voucher, for determining the inclusive period that the member was entitle. However, published
   orders that do not include an itinerary or state a designated area are not adequate.
   13.3.3. For contingency operations or major deployments the Joint Chiefs of Staff will issue process-
   ing procedures for starting IDP and other entitlements.
294                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


13.4. HFP or IDP Qualifiers. Areas authorized HFP/IDP are identified in table 10-1 of the DoDFMR,
Volume 7A. Areas authorized CZTE are identified in chapter 44 of the DoDFMR, Volume 7A. Figure
13.4. provides applicable HFP or IDP entitlement codes with and without combat zone tax exclusion
(CZTE).

13.5. CZTE Withholding Election. The CZ-DEDTN field will contain 0 when CZTE is not authorized.
See Chapter 56 for information when CZTE is authorized.

13.6. Proration of HFP or IDP Entitlement. If the HFP OR IDP is effective in the same month as the
member's accession or separation, or if the member is subject to a total forfeiture, or is on excess leave for
part of the month, the entitlement will be prorated.

13.7. HFP or IDP and CZTE. See Chapter 56 for information on CZTE.

13.8. Effect of Leave on IDP Entitlement. The following examples illustrate periods of leave and HFP
OR IDP entitlement. For these examples, the area was designated eligible for IDP on 15 May.
      13.8.1. Member departs on leave 2 April and returns 11 May. Member is entitled to IDP for May.
      13.8.2. Member departs on leave on 18 May and returns 28 June. Member is entitled to IDP for May
      and June.
      13.8.3. Member departs on leave 25 May and returns 15 July. Member is entitled to IDP for May and
      July, but not for June.

13.9. HFP/IDP and FID BS Entry on the MMPA. The HFP/IDP extends the maximum leave amount
that can be carried-over, for more information see Chapter 44. FID 2301 transaction will cause an open
FID BS entry on the MMPA; when a 2302 is processed the MMPA must contain both an open FID 23 and
BS, otherwise the 2302 will reject.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        295


Figure 13.1. Formats to Start/Stop Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay.


CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      1-5       02301/02


     6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE START. YYMMDD
                2301: EFFECTIVE DATE ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START.
                2302: LAST DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT WAS IN EFFECT.


     26-31      BLANK.


      32        CZ-DEDTN:
                2301:
                  FOR ALL:
                    0-MEMBER NOT AUTHORIZED CZTE
                    1-NO TAXES WITHHELD. IF RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE WITHIN
                    CURRENT YEAR, FITW AND/OR SITW WILL BE REFUNDED.
                    2-FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE MINUS MAXIMUM
                    WAGE EXCLUSION AMOUNT
                  FOR OFFICERS ONLY:
                    3-FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE WITHOUT REGARD TO
                    WAGE EXCLUSION
                    4-PRIOR ELECTION FROM LATEST HISTORY 23 ENTRY.
                2302: BLANK


      33        HOSTILE FIRE/IMMINENT DANGER PAY QUALIFIER:
                2301: SEE Figure 13.4. FOR APPLICABLE CODES, AND EXPLANATION OF
                EACH.
                2303: BLANK.


     34-35      COUNTRY WORLD (HFP/IDP). COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED HFP/IDP.
296                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
              2301: COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED HFP/IDP. SEE Attachment 16. SEE
              NOTE 1.
              2302: BLANK.


      36-53   BLANK.


      54-55   COUNTRY WORLD (CZTE)
              2301: BLANK, UNLESS IN A COUNTRY/LOCATION DESIGNATED AS AN
              AREA IN SUPPORT OF COMBAT ZONE OPERATIONS, AND IS DIFFERENT
              FROM CP 34 - 35.
              2302: BLANK


      56-67   BLANK.


      68-80   COMMON DATA.


              NOTE 1: USE COUNTRY CODE ‘XX’ TO AVOID COMPROMISING
              CLASSIFIED OPERATIONS.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        297


Figure 13.2. Formats to Report/Cancel Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay.


CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      1-5       02303/06


     6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START. YYMMDD
                2303: EFFECTIVE DATE ENTITLEMENT STARTED
                2306: DATE FROM ENTRY BEING CANCELED


     26-31      DATE-STOP. YYMMDD.
                2303: LAST DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT WAS EFFECTIVE.
                2306: DATE FROM ENTRY BEING CANCELED.


      32        COMBAT ZONE EXCLUSION CODE.
                2301:
                  FOR ALL:
                    0-MEMBER NOT AUTHORIZED CZTE
                    1-NO TAXES WITHHELD. IF RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE WITHIN
                    CURRENT YEAR, FITW AND/OR SITW WILL BE REFUNDED.
                    2-FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE MINUS MAXIMUM
                    WAGE EXCLUSION AMOUNT
                  FOR OFFICERS ONLY:
                    3-FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE WITHOUT REGARD TO
                    WAGE EXCLUSION
                    4-PRIOR ELECTION FROM LATEST HISTORY 23 ENTRY.
                2302: BLANK


      33        HOSTILE FIRE/IMMINENT DANGER PAY QUALIFIER:
                2301: SEE Figure 13.4. FOR APPLICABLE CODES, AND EXPLANATION OF
                EACH.
                2303: BLANK.
298                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      34-35   COUNTRY WORLD (HFP/IDP). COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED HFP/IDP.
              2301: COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED HFP/IDP. SEE Attachment 16. SEE
              NOTE 1.
              2302: BLANK.


      36-53   BLANK.


      54-55   COUNTRY WORLD (CZTE)
              2301: BLANK, UNLESS IN A COUNTRY/LOCATION DESIGNATED AS AN
              AREA IN SUPPORT OF COMBAT ZONE OPERATIONS, AND IS DIFFERENT
              FROM CP 34 - 35.
              2302: BLANK


      56-67   BLANK.


      68-80   COMMON DATA.


              NOTE 1: USE COUNTRY CODE ‘XX’ TO AVOID COMPROMISING
              CLASSIFIED OPERATIONS.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    299


Figure 13.3. Formats to Correct Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay.


CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      1-5       02305


     6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE START. YYMMDD. CORRECT EFFECTIVE DATE ENTITLEMENT
                SHOULD HAVE STARTED OR ZEROES.


     26-31      DATE STOP. YYMMDD. YYMMDD. CORRECT EFFECTIVE DATE
                ENTITLEMENT SHOULD HAVE STOPPED OR ZEROES.


      32        COMBAT ZONE EXCLUSION CODE.
                2301:
                  FOR ALL:
                    0-MEMBER NOT AUTHORIZED CZTE
                    1-NO TAXES WITHHELD. IF RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE WITHIN
                    CURRENT YEAR, FITW AND/OR SITW WILL BE REFUNDED.
                    2-FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE MINUS MAXIMUM
                    WAGE EXCLUSION AMOUNT
                  FOR OFFICERS ONLY:
                    3-FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE WITHOUT REGARD TO
                    WAGE EXCLUSION
                    4-PRIOR ELECTION FROM LATEST HISTORY 23 ENTRY.


      33        HOSTILE FIRE/IMMINENT DANGER PAY QUALIFIER. SEE Figure 13.4. FOR
                APPLICABLE CODES, AND EXPLANATION OF EACH.


     34-35      COUNTRY WORLD (HFP/IDP). COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED HFP/IDP.
                COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED HFP/IDP. SEE Attachment 16. SEE NOTE 1.


     36-53      BLANK.
300                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      54-55   COUNTRY WORLD (CZTE). BLANK, UNLESS IN A COUNTRY/LOCATION
              DESIGNATED AS AN AREA IN SUPPORT OF COMBAT ZONE OPERATIONS,
              AND IS DIFFERENT FROM CP 34 - 35.


      56-61   PRIOR START DATE. YYMMDD FROM ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
              ZEROES.


      62-67   PRIOR STOP DATE. YYMMDD FROM ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
              ZEROES.


      68-80   COMMON DATA.


              NOTE 1: USE COUNTRY CODE ‘XX’ TO AVOID COMPROMISING
              CLASSIFIED OPERATIONS.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                 301


Figure 13.4. HFP/IDP Qualifier Codes.
                                         HFP/IDP QUALIFIERS


                                                                              DoDFMR REFERENCE
               ENTITLEMENT REASON                                CODE                (TABLE 10-1)
IDP without CZTE                                                   1        Rules 1, 2
IDP with CZTE                                                      2        Rules 1, 2
HFP without CZTE                                                   3        Rule 3
HFP with CZTE                                                      4        Rule 3
HFP without CZTE as a result of death, injury or
hospitalization from hostile fire.                                  5       Rules 4, 5, 6
HFP with CZTE as a result of death, injury or
hospitalization from hostile fire.                                  6       Rules 4, 5, 6
IDP with CZTE for members in an area designated to be
in support of combat zone operations                                7

13.10. Combat-Related Injury Rehabilitation Pay (CIP). CIP was replaced by the Pay and Allowance
Continuation (PAC) program, effective 15 May 2008. Eligible members received CIP through 31 May
08, with PAC beginning 1 June 08. PAC entitles the member to continue receipt of all pays and allow-
ances received prior to hospitalization. See paragraph 13.11. below for information on PAC. The infor-
mation contained in paragraph 13.10. and its subparagraphs is provided for historical purposes. CIP was
a special pay for members who, while in the line of duty, incurred a wound, injury, or illness in a combat
operation or designated combat zone and were evacuated from the combat operation or zone for medical
treatment. Military members were considered hospitalized for the purposes of CIP if admitted as an inpa-
tient in a military treatment facility or, for the purposes of receiving extensive outpatient rehabilitation or
other medical care in a military treatment facility, in residence in quarters affiliated with the military
health care system.
   13.10.1. Entitlement. A member who was evacuated from the theater for medical treatment was enti-
   tled to CIP for each month the member was hospitalized for treatment of such wounds, injuries or ill-
   ness, subject to the entitlement start and stop dates as described in paragraph 13.10.3. and 13.10.4.
   below. Military members were considered hospitalized for the purposes of CIP if admitted as an inpa-
   tient in a military treatment facility or, for the purposes of receiving extensive outpatient rehabilitation
   or other medical care in a military treatment facility, in residence in quarters affiliated with the mili-
   tary health care system. Such wound, injury, or illness was considered "in the line of duty" unless it
   was the result of the member's own intentional misconduct or willful negligence, or incurred during a
   period of unauthorized absence.
   13.10.2. Amount Payable. The monthly amount of CIP was $430 and was paid in addition to any
   other pay or allowance EXCEPT hostile fire/imminent danger pay (HFP/IDP); the monthly amount of
   CIP was offset by the HFP/IDP received by the member for the same month. CIP was not pro-rated,
   but paid for the entire month for any month in which the member was eligible to receive it.
302                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      13.10.3. Payment of CIP, on a monthly basis, was authorized beginning the month after the date on
      which the member was evacuated from the theater of the combat operation or combat zone for medi-
      cal treatment. CIP was not payable for any months prior to March 2006. If a member incurred a qual-
      ifying wound, injury, or illness before March 23, 2006, and the member continued to satisfy the
      eligibility criteria after that date, payment of CIP was authorized beginning March 2006 and continu-
      ing until the member was no longer entitled.
      13.10.4. CIP eligibility for a member was stopped at the end of the first month during which any of
      the following applied:
         13.10.4.1. The member was paid a benefit under Traumatic Servicemembers' Group Life Insur-
         ance (T-SGLI), or
         13.10.4.2. The member received notification of the eligibility for a benefit under T-SGLI and a
         period of 30 days expired after the date of such notification, or
         13.10.4.3. The member was no longer hospitalized in a military treatment facility or a facility
         under the auspices of the military health care system.
      13.10.5. Once a member lost entitlement to CIP, eligibility could not be reestablished if the member
      was rehospitalized for the same injury, wound, or illness.
      13.10.6. Processing in DJMS-AC. There was no base-level processing required for CIP. Each mem-
      ber who was identified as wounded, injured, or ill and was evacuated from a theater of combat opera-
      tions was the subject of a CMS case established by HQ AFPC Casualty Matters. Those cases were
      monitored by the Special Assistance Branch at DFAS-DE. As part of the monitoring process,
      DFAS-DE ensured members were paid all entitlements due, to include CIP. CIP was paid in the 09
      (save pay) entry on the MMPA.
         13.10.6.1. If a member was identified as injured and did not receive the proper entitlements, con-
         tact HQ AFPC/DPWCS at DSN 665-3505.
         13.10.6.2. If a member was receiving CIP at less than $430 per month, check to see if there was
         an open FID 23 (HFP/IDP) on the MMPA for the same period. If not, check to see if there was a
         CMS case and use it to query DFAS to determine the reason.

13.11. Pay and Allowances Continuation (PAC) Program. Effective 15 May 2008, the Pay and Allow-
ances Continuation Program (PAC) replaced CIP. The information on CIP is provided for historical pur-
poses. PAC provides for continuation of the pay and allowances an eligible member was receiving at the
time the member was injured, wounded, or became ill, “in the line of duty” while serving in a combat
operation or a combat zone, a hostile fire area, or while exposed to a hostile fire event (regardless of loca-
tion), and is hospitalized for treatment of the wound, injury or illness. See paragraph 13.11.3.3. below for
definition of “in the line of duty” for PAC purposes. A member may receive payment under Traumatic
Service members’ Group Life Insurance (T-SGLI) and remain entitled to payment under PAC.
      13.11.1. Payment of Hardship Duty Pay – Location (HDP-L).
         13.11.1.1. A member who is on temporary/deployed/attached duty of over 30 days duration in a
         designated hardship duty location for purpose of HDP-L, and who is wounded, injured, or
         becomes ill within the first 30 days of serving in the designated area, will be considered eligible
         for HDP-L at the time the wound, injury or illness is incurred.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             303


     13.11.1.2. If the member is determined eligible for HDP-L at the time the qualifying wound,
     injury or illness occurred, payment of HDP-L is continued under PAC.
  13.11.2. Imminent Danger Pay/Hostile Fire Pay (IDP/HFP) and Combat Zone Tax Exclusion
  (CZTE).
     13.11.2.1. IDP and CZTE continue beyond the previous 3 month (90 day) period.
  13.11.3. PAC entitlement period.
     13.11.3.1. Payment under PAC begins on the date of evacuation from the combat theater through
     the end of the first month beginning after the earliest of the following dates:
         13.11.3.1.1. The date on which the member is returned for assignment to other than a medical
         or patient unit for duty (returned to his/her home base for duty);
         13.11.3.1.2. The date on which the member is discharged, separated, or retired (including tem-
         porary disability retirement) from the uniformed service; or
         13.11.3.1.3. One year after the date on which the member is first hospitalized for the treatment
         of the wound, injury, or illness, except that the Principle Deputy Under Secretary of Defense
         for Personnel and Readiness (PDUSD)(P&R) may extend the termination date in six (6)
         month increments under extraordinary circumstances.
     13.11.3.2. In addition to the entitlements the member was receiving at the time of evacuation,
     PAC entitles the member to the incidental and expense (IE) portion of per diem, $105 per month,
     prorated for the first month to the date of evacuation. For example, if a member is evacuated on 6
     June 08, the PAC payment for June is $87.50 (30 days /$105.00 = 3.50 daily rate x 25 days =
     $87.50 due from 6-30 June). Each month thereafter, the member receives $105 per month.
     13.11.3.3. Qualifying members are considered “in the line of duty” unless the illness, wound, or
     injury is the result of the member’s intentional misconduct or willful negligence or is incurred dur-
     ing a period of unauthorized absence. A hospitalized member under the PAC program may ini-
     tially be admitted as an inpatient and later receive outpatient rehabilitation or may receive some
     other form of appropriate medical care in a military treatment facility, a Veterans’ Affairs or civil-
     ian hospital, or other treatment facility. The hospitalization may occur immediately or at a later
     time if the need for hospitalization is not initially evident.
  13.11.4. Transition from CIP to PAC. A member may have qualified for CIP before the effective date
  of PAC and be eligible for payment under PAC. Beginning in June 08, that member will be paid under
  PAC.
  13.11.5. Members may not receive payment under CIP and PAC at the same time.
  13.11.6. Processing in DJMS-AC.
     13.11.6.1. There is no base-level or AFFSC processing required under PAC. DFAS makes pay-
     ment using FID 09, 23, with a save pay type of G, to pay the IE portion.
     13.11.6.2. DFAS monitors the pay records daily to ensure members’ are paid correctly for the
     authorized period and that entitlements are stopped when appropriate.
     13.11.6.3. If a member you service is not receiving payment under PAC but appears to be entitled,
     contact HQ AFPC/DPWCS at DSN 665-3505.
304                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                  Chapter 14

                                      SPECIAL PAY-DIVING DUTY

14.1. Description. Individuals are entitled to special pay for diving duty if they meet the entitlement con-
ditions outlined in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 11.

14.2. Source of Input. FSO prepares and submits input for diving duty to DFAS-DE based on substanti-
ating documents from the member's unit.
      14.2.1. Prepare input as FID 21 to start, stop, report, change, correct or cancel (Figure 14.2.):
         14.2.1.1. Start - 2101. Establishes entitlement for an indefinite period.
         14.2.1.2. Stop - 2102. Terminates entitlement when a member becomes ineligible for diving duty
         pay.
         14.2.1.3. Report - 2103. Credits member with one-time entitlement for a specific period of time.
         14.2.1.4. Change - 2104. Changes type of diving duty.
         14.2.1.5. Correct - 2105. Corrects a previous action submitted with an error.
         14.2.1.6. Cancel - 2106. Completely voids a previously processed transaction.
      14.2.2. M-Series Orders for Diving Duty. These orders are issued under authority of major com-
      mands and remain valid as long as the individual is required to maintain proficiency by frequent and
      regular dives. Diving duty orders do not contain an expiration date and they remain in effect during
      PCS, including delay enroute. The PCS orders will state whether diving duty will be performed at the
      TDY station and also the new permanent station. They also remain in effect upon discharge with
      immediate reenlistment. A copy of the diving duty orders should be kept in each individual's person-
      nel record. The major command will rescind the diving duty order when the individual is no longer on
      diving status.
      14.2.3. Military Pay Order (MPO), DD Form 114. Diving duty MPOs are prepared by member's unit
      and certified by the unit commander. (See Figure 14.1.) In case of diving duty starts, the com-
      mander's certification attests to the following:
         14.2.3.1. The M-Series Order is current.
         14.2.3.2. The member is required to maintain proficiency as a diver by frequent and regular dives.
         14.2.3.3. The member is actually performing diving duty.

14.3. Diving Duty and Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP). When assigned by orders to both div-
ing duty and hazardous duty, an enlisted member may be paid special pay for diving duty and one HDIP.
Since ACIP is not considered an HDIP, an officer may be paid ACIP, diving duty pay, and one HDIP.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                305


14.4. Diving Duty Types and Codes:


   Officer Type        Enlisted Type
  K-Scuba - $150      8-Scuba - $110
                    P-Pararescue - $150
306                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 14.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (Diving Duty Pay).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              307


Figure 14.2. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel, Correct or Change Diving Duty Pay.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       02101/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST DAY THROUGH
                 WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        DIVER CLASS CODE (SEE PARA 14-4)


       1-5       02103/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


     26-31       YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06

       32        DIVER CLASS CODE (SEE PARA 14-4)


       1-5       02104


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS CHANGED
308                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     32    DIVER CLASS CODE (SEE PARA 14-4)


       1-5    02105


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR ZEROS


      26-31   CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR ZEROS


       32     DIVER CLASS CODE (SEE PARA 14-4)


      56-61   PRIOR DATE START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS


      62-67   PRIOR DATE STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                 309


                                                 Chapter 15

                                 OVERSEAS TOUR EXTENSION PAY

15.1. Description. Overseas tour extension incentive pay is a special pay for certain eligible members.
For entitlement information, see DoDFMR, Vol 7A, Chapter 14. Compensation for the extension is avail-
able as:
   15.1.1. Monthly installments not to exceed $80 per month.
   15.1.2. Annual bonus not to exceed $2000 payable in lump sum or eleven monthly installment pay-
   ments of $166.66 and one installment of $166.74.
   15.1.3. 30-day non-chargeable leave.
   15.1.4. 15-day non-chargeable leave plus round-trip transportation at government expense.

15.2. Source of Input. (Workaround) The current method of processing this entitlement is for the MPF
to set up a CMS case on the individual entitled and refer to the DFAS AC CEFIP/FLPP/OTEIP box with
all required information. Central site pays OTEIP using the FID 31 for enlisted and FID 08 for officers.
NOTE: The new FCPS (forward compatible pay system) will use the FID 18 submitted by the MPF to
make payment. The FID 18 format will be included with the new system requirements to be implemented
at a later date.

15.3. Recoupment. If a member enters an extension and receives the lump sum payment, and is then cur-
tailed (due to other than mission requirements), a recoupment rate of $166.66 per month is established on
the member’s MMPA for each month, or portion thereof, by which the tour is shortened. Example: mem-
ber serves 18 days in January; collection is $166.66 for the month of January. Personnel will provide the
DD Form 139 indicating member notification of the debt and the total dollar amount of debt. If the mem-
ber cannot afford to repay the full amount all at once, set a repay rate as required for a debt to the U.S. (see
DFAS-DEM 7073-1, chapter 69). In no case will the collection be less than $50.00 per month.”

15.4. Assignment Incentive Pay – Korea. On 27 April 2004, the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of
Defense, Personnel and Readiness, authorized the Air Force AIP Korea (KAIP) assignment program.
   15.4.1. Airmen who volunteer to serve a 24 month unaccompanied or 36 month accompanied tour
   before arriving in Korea, and who enter such agreement prior to completion of the first 30 days in
   country, will receive $300 per month, prorated from the date of arrival through their new tour end
   date.
   15.4.2. KAIP is paid by DFAS-DE using the 09, FID 30, based on CMS cases from personnel. Per-
   sonnel also notifies DFAS, via CMS case, to stop the entitlement.
   15.4.3. KAIP is stopped upon termination of the contract or curtailment of the agreed-upon tour of
   duty for any reason, either voluntary or involuntary. Entitlement to KAIP is also terminated if the
   member is determined to be absent without leave or enters confinement.
   15.4.4. Payment of KAIP is prorated for partial months served in the assignment.
   15.4.5. Airmen who elect KAIP are not eligible for concurrent OTEIP or IPCOT.
310                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


15.5. Critical Skills Assignment Incentive Pay (CSAIP).
      15.5.1. Air Force personnel in Combat Control (1C2XX) and Pararescue (1T2XX) Air Force Special-
      ties (AFSCs) and CCMs at AFSOC and SOCOM with the 2AFSC of 1C2XX and 1T2XX may be eli-
      gible for CSAIP. Members who meet these criteria and sign an agreement to remain on active duty for
      the required period will receive CSAIP in the amount of $750 per month.
      15.5.2. CSAIP is paid by DFAS-DE using the 09, FID 30, based on CMS cases from the personnel
      office. Personnel also notifies DFAS, via CMS case, to stop the entitlement.
      15.5.3. Members may not receive payment under CSAIP and AIP for 24th STS for the same period.
      15.5.4. The CSAIP agreement is effective from the date the member signs until the high year tenure
      for the current grade held at the time of the agreement. The agreement must be for a minimum of
      1-year.
      15.5.5. Recoupment. Any portion of the money unearned due to retirement or separation will be
      recouped.

15.6. Other Types of AIP.
      15.6.1. Special Mission Unit members in enlisted operator billets in the 24th Special Tactics Squadron
      (STS), who sign agreements to serve an additional period (12 to 36 months) in a 24th STS billet, are
      entitled to $750 per month AIP. Only members who have already served a minimum of 12 months in
      operator billets are eligible.
         15.6.1.1. Airmen may not receive payment of AIP for 24th STS and CSAIP for SOCOM MFP-11
         Special Operations Forces for the same period.
         15.6.1.2. AIP for 24th STS is paid, by DFAS-DE, using the 09, FID 30 (SDAP), based on CMS
         cases from the personnel office. Personnel also notifies DFAS, via CMS case, to stop the entitle-
         ment.
         15.6.1.3. Members lose entitlement to AIP for this service if they are permanently reassigned to
         another billet, or are AWOL or in confinement.
      15.6.2. Assignment Incentive Pay – Creech AFB. Due to the need for increasing manning at Creech
      over the next few years, AF has implemented an AIP for members who agree to serve/extend assign-
      ments there.
         15.6.2.1. Entitlement to AIP for Creech is based on a signed agreement. Members are entitled to
         $300 per month for the first 3 years service and, if they extend, may be paid $750 per month after
         3 years time on station. Entitlement is prorated. Example: Member reaches the 3-year point on
         the 15th of the month. That member’s entitlement is $10 per day for the first 15 days of the month
         and $25 per day for the last 15 days of the month.
         15.6.2.2. DFAS-DE pays AIP for Creech AFB using the 09, FID 30, based on CMS cases from
         the personnel office. Personnel also notifies DFAS, via CMS case, to stop the entitlement.
         15.6.2.3. Members lose entitlement to AIP for assignment to Creech upon departure or reassign-
         ment from Creech AFB, AWOL or confinement.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           311


                                                Chapter 16

                                   AVIATOR RETENTION BONUS

16.1. Purpose. This chapter outlines policy, responsibilities, and procedures for payment of aviator
retention bonus to eligible career pilots via DJMS.

16.2. Applicability and Scope. This chapter applies to all eligible members of the Armed Forces paid by
DJMS.

16.3. Policy. An aviation officer entitled to aviation career incentive pay who makes a written agreement
to remain on active duty in aviation service for at least 1 year, may be entitled to an aviator retention
bonus as provided in this chapter. Additional entitlement information is contained in DoDFMR, Volume
7A, chapter 20. Further guidance and direction for personnel is contained in AFI 36-3004, Aviation Con-
tinuation Pay (ACP) Program.

16.4. Responsibilities. The following identifies the organizations involved in the Aviator Retention
Bonus Program, and their associated responsibilities:
   16.4.1. HQ USAF/DPPC:
       16.4.1.1. Initiate program annually as funding is approved by passage of the National Defense
       Authorization Act (NDAA) by Congress.
       16.4.1.2. Provide eligibility criteria for program.
       16.4.1.3. Forward documentation on newly eligible members to MPF.
   16.4.2. HQ AFPC/DPAOY:
       16.4.2.1. Establish and execute Aviator Retention Bonus Program.
       16.4.2.2. Provide instructions to MPF.
       16.4.2.3. Maintain the master copy of all aviator retention bonus agreements for input to master
       personnel records.
       16.4.2.4. Provide implementation message to DFAS-DE for dissemination to FSO.
       16.4.2.5. Provide initial update of aviator retention bonus to DFAS-DE for input to DJMS.
       16.4.2.6. Provide, in writing, to DFAS-DE/FJPA, corrections to all updates, start and stop dates,
       recoupments, or reinstatement of aviator retention bonus, including medical disqualification.
   16.4.3. MPF:
       16.4.3.1. Provide guidance to commanders to brief eligible members.
       16.4.3.2. Forward completed aviator retention bonus agreements received from commanders and
       eligible members to HQ AFPC/DPAOY.
   16.4.4. Commanders and eligible members: complete and forward aviator retention bonus agree-
   ments to MPF.
   16.4.5. FSO:
312                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         16.4.5.1. Provide customer service to recipient of aviation retention bonus via MMPA inquiries.
         Direct the member to the local MPF is the member’s entitlement is not on the MMPA.
         16.4.5.2. Provide manual estimate of the member’s entitlement based on payment option. No
         DJMS input is required by the FSO.
      16.4.6. DFAS-DE:
         16.4.6.1. Provide annual instructions and current policy information to FSO regarding mainte-
         nance and payment of aviator retention bonus to pilots identified by the Aviator Retention Bonus
         Report. This report contains annual payment amounts, dates required to determine exact length of
         the contract, and payment option.
         16.4.6.2. Generates initial and installment payments based on the effective date the member
         signed to aviation retention bonus agreement.

16.5. Aviator Retention Bonus Format IDs (FID) and MMPA Entries. These transactions appear on
the MMPA as FID 38 and create FID PR payment authorizations.
      16.5.1. 3803 (ACP Report). AFPC inputs from 10 to 120 days prior to the effective date. Affects the
      MMPA as follows:
         16.5.1.1. Closes the FID 38 entry effective current month.
         16.5.1.2. Creates R9 entry.
         16.5.1.3. Creates PR authorization.
         16.5.1.4. Creates future entry.
         16.5.1.5. Creates LES remark.
      16.5.2. 3806 (ACP cancel). AFPC cancels an open aviator retention bonus entitlement. Transaction
      rejects is an NC (MEMO entry) is not present.
      16.5.3. 3813 (ACP accelerate). Initiates the acceleration of the aviator retention bonus. R9 and future
      entries are updated or closed, and a PR authorization is generated. (Input by DFAS-DE only).
      16.5.4. FID R9 (Bonus data). Stores information contained in the 3803 transaction.
      16.5.5. FID PR (Bonus payment). Reports, corrects, or cancels an aviator retention bonus payment
      (see Figure 16.2.). See Figure 16.3. for PR26 Release Format.
      16.5.6. FID NC (MEMO entry). Created when the 3803 transaction is input 11 to 120 days prior to
      the effective date.
      16.5.7. FID RA (Recoupment). Contains the amount to be recouped from officers who will separate
      (or otherwise become ineligible to receive the entitlement) prior to completion of the period of the
      agreement.

16.6. Manual Payment Computation Examples. The following options of the manual payment com-
putations are for information purposes only.
Example: An officer entitled to ACIP with a written agreement to remain on active duty to complete 14
years of commissioned service. Contract start and stop dates are 1 June 1995 and 30 December 1999,
respectively.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             313


   16.6.1. Option 1 - initial payment equal to 50% of the total authorized amount, with the balance paid
   in equal annual installments.
       16.6.1.1. Compute the daily rate by dividing maximum annual amount per DoDFMR ($12,000 for
       each year covered by the agreement, if the officer agrees to remain on active duty to complete 14
       years of commissioned service, or $6,000 for each year covered by the agreement, if the officer
       agrees to remain on active duty for 1 or 2 years) by 360 to obtain a daily rate, i.e., $12,000/360 =
       $33.33333 per day.
       16.6.1.2. Compute length of time covered by the agreement by subtracting contract start date from
       contract stop date:


                                  Year    Month              Day
                                   99      12                30
                                   95      06                01
                              =     4        6     29 + 1 (inclusive days)

       16.6.1.3. Compute total number of days covered by the agreement by multiplying number of
       years X 360 days + number of months X 30 days + number of days, i.e., 4 years X 360 + 6 months
       X 30 + 30 = 1,650 days.
       16.6.1.4. Compute total authorized amount by multiplying total number of days covered by the
       agreement by the daily rate, i.e., 1650 X 33.33333 = $55,000.
       16.6.1.5. Compute initial payment amount by multiplying total authorized amount by .50, i.e.,
       $55,000 X .50 = $27,500.
       16.6.1.6. Compute daily rate for remaining annual installments by dividing remaining amount, by
       the number of days remaining in the agreement, i.e., $27,500 ($55,000 - $27,500 initial payment)/
       1290 days (1,650 - 360 days) = $21.31782. Initial payment and remaining installments will be
       computed as follows:


              1st Year (950601-960530) - $27,500.00 ($55,000 X .50)
              2nd Year (960601-970530) - $7,674.42 (360 days X $21.31782)
              3rd Year (970601-980530) - $7,674.42 (360 days X $21.31782)
              4th Year (980601-990530) - $7,674.42 (360 days X $21.31782)
               5th Year (990601-991230) - $4,476.74 (total amount of contract - amounts paid to date =
final payment amount)


       16.6.1.7. FITW will be deducted at the flat rate of 28%. SITW (if applicable) will be deducted at
       the one-time payment rate corresponding to the member’s state of legal residence.
   16.6.2. Option 2 - annual installments for the period of the agreement.
       16.6.2.1. Perform steps 1 through 4 from Option 1.
314                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       16.6.2.2. Member will receive $12,000 (gross) each year, with the exception of the final year
       which will be $7000. Payments are as follows:


              1st Year (950601-960530) - $12,000.00 (360 days X $33.33333)
              2nd Year (960601-970530) - $12,000.00 (360 days X $33.33333)
              3rd Year (970601-980530) - $12,000.00 (360 days X $33.33333)
              4th Year (980601-990530) - $12,000.00 (360 days X $33.33333)
               5th Year (990601-991230) - $7,000.00 (total amount of contract - amounts paid to date =
final payment amount)


       16.6.2.3. FITW will be deducted at the flat rate of 28%. SITW (if applicable) will be deducted at
       the one-time payment rate corresponding to the member’s state of legal residence.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            315


Figure 16.1. Formats to Report/Cancel or Accelerate ACP.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       03803/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE OF ACP


     26-32      FOR 3803, AMOUNT OF ANNUAL PAYMENT; FOR 3806, BLANK


     34-39      FOR 3803, EXPIRATION DATE OF ACP; FOR 3806, BLANK


       40       FOR 3803:
                 1--PAYMENT OPTION 50% OR
                 2--PAYMENT OPTION FOR ANNUAL INSTALLMENTS
                FOR 3806, BLANK


      1-5       03813


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20       NUMBER OF INSTALLMENTS TO BE PAID--1 THRU 6


     21-22      FY FUNDS TO BE CHARGED


       23       FILLER
316                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 16.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Aviator Continuation Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0PR03/06 OR APR05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B--ARMY
                C--NAVY
                D--MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


      27-30     ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

      32-39     VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-48     AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


      49-51     CLEAR ACCOUNT ID:
                510--OFFICER
                530--ENLISTED


       65       RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              317


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    67    CHECK DIGIT (COMPUTER GENERATED)


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
318                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 16.3. Format to Release PR Authorization.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0PR26


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD OF ONE-TIME PAY AUTHORIZATION


       26        GOVERNMENT AGENCY: A--AIR FORCE


      27-30      PAYING ADSN


      32-39      VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-48      AMOUNT OF ONE-TIME PAYMENT


      49-51      CLEARING-ACCOUNT-ID:
                 510—ENLISTED
                 530—OFFICER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              319


                                               Chapter 17

              ENGINEERING AND SCIENTIFIC CAREER CONTINUATION PAY
                                    (ESCCP)

17.1. Description. Officers meeting the conditions of entitlement to ESCCP as described in the DoD-
FMR, Volume 7A, chapter 16, may receive either a lump sum or yearly installment not to exceed $3,000
for each year of obligated service agreed to in the written agreement.

17.2. Source of Input. AFPC establishes entitlement to ESCCP using a 3203 transaction. Processed
transactions will appear in section 6 of the member's servicing FSO's DTR; partially processed or rejected
transaction appears in Section 3.

17.3. Payment. For central payees, installments of this type bonus are paid from central site through the
electronic funds transfer system (EFTS). Local payees are paid via the one-time pay authorization list at
base level. When a member is paid by EFTS, base level is notified by message on the one-time pay autho-
rization list, instead of receiving a pay authorization to make payment locally. Members in a TDY or PCS
status, who are central payees, will have their installments released to EFTS on the effective date. Locally
paid members, who are TDY, may receive those payments from the TDY FSO. Locally paid members,
who are in PCS status may be paid the installments by any FSO since no pay authorization will be issued.
In this case, gaining FSOs should determine if the payment was made by another FSO before routinely
issuing a bonus payment.
320                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 17.1. AFPC Format for Engineering Scientific Bonus.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      03203


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      21-26     DATE-START: YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE


       28       YEARS OF CONTRACT


       31       BONUS-TYPE:
                1=$3,000 PER YEAR
                2=$2,500 PER YEAR


       33       ENGINEERING SCIENTIFIC BONUS (ESB) AUTHORIZATION INDICATOR:
                1 IF ESB IS AUTHORIZED TO BE PAID IN ONE PAYMENT (LUMP SUM)
                2 IF ESB IS AUTHORIZED TO BE PAID IN 50% AND ANNUAL
                INSTALLMENTS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             321


                                              Chapter 18

                                   HARDSHIP DUTY PAY (HDP)

18.1. Description. There are currently two types of Hardship Duty Pay (HDP); Hardship Duty Pay Loca-
tion (HDP-L) and Hardship Duty Pay Mission (HDP-M). Both types are payable to both enlisted and
officers and limited to no more than $300 in any one month. See DoDFMR, Vol 7A, Chapter 17, for more
specific conditions of entitlement.
   18.1.1. HDP-L is paid based on location and replaces the old Foreign Duty Pay (FDP). (NOTE:
   Members who arrived PCS at an old HDP-L (FDP) area before 01/01/02 are entitled to the old HDP-L
   for that area until they PCS. Therefore, do not automatically stop the FID 22. See paragraph 18.3. for
   FID 22 processing instructions. No member is entitled to both the new and the old for the same dates.)
   18.1.2. HDP-M is paid at the rate of $150 and is based on the mission the member is performing. The
   qualifying missions are specified in the DoDFMR, Vol 7A, chapter 17.

18.2. Source of Input of HDP Transactions (FID 14).
   18.2.1. HDP-L is paid by the FSO using format ID (FID) 14. The FID 14 requires both the duty-type
   field and the location code from DJMS table 118.
       18.2.1.1. The Duty-Type field requires either an "M" for Mission or "L" for Location.
       18.2.1.2. Location Codes can be found in DJMS under Table 118. The location code determines
       the amount paid to the member. Example: Location code AK001 is ALASKA, ATTU and the
       rate in the table is $150.00.
       18.2.1.3. See paragraph 18.1.2. for information regarding entitlement to HDP-M.
   18.2.2. Process a 1401 (Figure 18.3.) to start the entitlement once the member has been in country for
   over 30 days.
   18.2.3. Process a 1402 to stop the entitlement when the travel voucher is filed at the end of the period
   in the qualifying country.
   18.2.4. Process a 1403 to report the entitlement.
   18.2.5. Process a 1404 to change the entitlement.
   18.2.6. Process a 1405 to correct the entitlement.
   18.2.7. Process a 1406 to cancel the entitlement.

18.3. Input of the Old FDP/HDP-L Transactions for those Members who were Already on Station
in a Qualifying (FDP) Area Before 01/01/02. These are the only members who are entitled to the old
HDP-L for that area until they PCS. Therefore, do not automatically stop the FID 22 if currently on a
member’s record. Research the entitlement to determine whether it is valid.
   18.3.1. 2201 (HDP-L Start) establishes the HDP-L for an indefinite period (Figure 18.1.).
   18.3.2. 2202 (HSP-L Stop) terminates entitlement when a member becomes ineligible (Figure 18.1.).
   The member is no longer entitled when:
       18.3.2.1. Departs the station as a result of permanent change of station.
322                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         18.3.2.2. Member is in a non-pay status.
         18.3.2.3. Leaves the old (HDP-L (CP)) area of entitlement for a TDY and becomes entitled to a
         higher rate of HDP-L (DA)) for the period of TDY and becomes entitled to a higher rate of HDP-L
         (DA) for the period of TDY; entitlement to old HDP-L resumes upon member’s return to PDS, if
         grandfathered at the PDS.
      18.3.3. 2203 (HDP report) establishes HDP as a one-time entitlement with specified inclusive dates
      (Figure 18.1.).
      18.3.4. 2205 (HDP correct) corrects an erroneous HDP transaction (Figure 18.2.).
      18.3.5. 2206 (HDP cancel) voids a previous HDP start or report transaction (Figure 18.1.).

18.4. Substantiating Documents.
      18.4.1. For HDP-L, use the member’s orders assigning him/her to a qualified area.
      18.4.2. For HDP-M, use the member’s orders to the specific mission.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 323


Figure 18.1. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel Hardship Duty Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5   02201/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST DAY THROUGH
                 WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


     32-33       DUTY-COUNTRY:
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 01 -- COUNTRY WHERE MEMBER'S TDY
                 STATION IS LOCATED, SEE NOTE AND Attachment 16
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02 -- COUNTRY OR NON-CONUS STATE WHERE
                 MEMBER'S NEXT DUTY STATION (TDY OR PERMANENT) IS LOCATED
                 IF MEMBER LOSES ENTITLEMENT TO HDP WHILE AT CURRENT DUTY
                 STATION, ENTER COUNTRY OR NON-CONUS STATE FOR CURRENT
                 DUTY STATION
      OR


     32-33       DUTY-NON-CONUS-STATE:
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 01 -- NON-CONUS STATE WHERE MEMBER'S
                 TDY STATION IS LOCATED, SEE NOTE AND Attachment 14 AND
                 Attachment 16
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02 -- COUNTRY OR NON-CONUS STATE WHERE
                 MEMBER'S NEXT DUTY STATION (TDY OR PERMANENT) IS LOCATED
                 IF MEMBER LOSES ENTITLEMENT TO HDP WHILE AT CURRENT DUTY
                 STATION, COUNTRY OR NON-CONUS STATE FOR CURRENT DUTY
                 STATION


       34        HARDSHIP DUTY TYPE:
                 L - LOCALITY
                 M – MISSION
      1-5        02203/06
324                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   6-14   SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


      26-31   DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


      32-33   DUTY-COUNTRY: COUNTRY WHERE MEMBER’S TDY OR PDS STATION IS
              LOCATED, SEE NOTE AND Attachment 16
       OR


      32-33   DUTY-NON-CONUS-STATE: NON-CONUS STATE WHERE MEMBER’S TDY
              OR PDS STATION IS LOCATED, SEE NOTE AND Attachment 14


              NOTE: WHEN PROCESSING AN ENTITLEMENT TO HARDSHIP DUTY PAY
              FOR CLASSIFIED LOCATIONS, COUNTRY CODE SHOULD BE XX TO
              AVOID COMPROMISING THE CLASSIFICATION


       34     HARDSHIP DUTY TYPE:
              L - LOCALITY
              M – MISSION
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               325


Figure 18.2. Format to Correct Hardship Duty Pay.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       02205


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
                ZEROS


     26-31      DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
                ZEROS


     32-33      DUTY-COUNTRY: COUNTRY WHERE MEMBER’S TDY OR PDS STATION IS
                LOCATED, SEE NOTE AND Attachment 16
      OR


     32-33      DUTY-NON-CONUS-STATE: NON-CONUS STATE WHERE MEMBER’S TDY
                OR PDS STATION IS LOCATED, SEE NOTE AND Attachment 14


       34       HARDSHIP DUTY TYPE:
                L - LOCALITY
                M - MISSION


     56-61      PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
                CORRECTED OR ZEROS


     62-67      PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
                OR ZEROS


                NOTE: WHEN PROCESSING AN ENTITLEMENT TO FOREIGN DUTY PAY
                FOR CLASSIFIED LOCATIONS, COUNTRY CODE SHOULD BE XX TO
                AVOID COMPROMISING THE CLASSIFICATION
326                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 18.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Hardship Duty Pay – Location.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       01401/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                 DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01403/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


      26-31      DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06

       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01405


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
                 ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              327


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    26-31    DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
             ZEROS


     32      INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


    56-61    PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
             CORRECTED OR ZEROS


    62-67    PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
             OR ZEROS
328                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                Chapter 19

                                                SEA DUTY

19.1. Description. Sea duty pay and/or career sea pay premium are payable to E-4s and above who are
entitled to such pay as shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 18. Sea duty pay and career sea pay
premium are stopped by processing a PCS departure transaction (SH03), or upon receipt of an E603 trans-
action for a change of category (enlisted to officer). If member is still entitled to sea duty pay/career sea
pay premium, a new start transaction must be input.

19.2. Source of Input. FSOs prepare input for all sea duty pay transactions based on substantiating doc-
umentation provided by member's commander or temporary duty (TDY) travel voucher. Prepare FID 27
input as shown in Figure 19.4. through Figure 19.5.
      19.2.1. Start Sea Duty - 2701. Opens entitlement on the MMPA.
      19.2.2. Stop Sea Duty - 2702. Closes the open entitlement and the Career Sea Pay premium entry, if
      applicable.
      19.2.3. Report Sea Duty - 2703. Credits member with one-time entitlement for a specific period of
      time.
      19.2.4. Change Sea Duty - 2704. Changes the vessel category in an open 27 transaction. Closes the
      open entitlement and creates a new open entry reflecting the new data.
      19.2.5. Correct Sea Duty - 2705. Corrects a previous transaction submitted with an error.
      19.2.6. Cancel Sea Duty - 2706. Cancels sea duty previously input.

19.3. Vessel Categories. There are 3 categories of vessels:
      19.3.1. Category A. Vessel is in active status, in commission or in service, whose primary mission is
      accomplished underway. Members are entitled to payment of career sea pay.
      19.3.2. Category B. Vessel is in active status, in commission or in service, whose primary mission is
      accomplished in home-port, or in a port 50 miles or less from home-port. Members are not entitled to
      payment of career sea pay. Reference paragraph 19.7.
      19.3.3. Category C. Also considered a category B vessel, but vessel is underway, or in a port more
      than 50 miles from home-port. Members are entitled to payment of career sea pay.

19.4. Sea Duty Counter FID T2. The T2 is a counter that accumulates the members’ creditable sea duty
time. The sea duty time is used to create a future date for longevity (sea duty time) rate increases.
DJMS-AC will automatically add creditable sea duty time from FID 27 entry. This entry will always
remain open and will show total days of sea duty. T205 transactions to adjust the T2 are restricted to
DFAS-DE/FJP.
      19.4.1. Initial Period of Sea Duty for Member. The initial 27 (2701/2703) entry, for a member who
      has no previous sea duty time, will automatically create the T2. DJMS will add the correct amount of
      sea duty time to the counter.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             329


   19.4.2. Adjustments for Periods Outside IAS. The field will provide the details to central site by mes-
   sage. The center will adjust the sea duty pay utilizing unique transactions. They will process a T205
   to correct the T2. The T2 adjustment will be followed by a 2705 transaction that has dates matching
   the earliest sea pay entry on the MMPA. This will initiate the recalculation of pay within IAS affected
   by the adjustment and create a new longevity future for sea pay.
   19.4.3. Correcting T2 for Erroneous Sea Time. The field will provide the correct data to central site
   by message. The center will process a T205 to correct the T2. The T2 adjustment will be followed by
   a 2705 transaction that has dates matching the earliest sea pay entry on the MMPA. This will initiate
   the recalculation of pay within IAS affected by the adjustment and create a new longevity future for
   sea pay.
   19.4.4. Correcting Previous Sea Pay Entries that are Within IAS and are on the MMPA. The field will
   input appropriate 27 transactions. These transactions will adjust the T2 and initiate the recalculation
   of pay within IAS affected by the adjustment and create a new longevity future for sea pay.

19.5. Grades 31 thru 33. Grades below 34 do not receive sea pay, however, they do receive credit for
sea duty time. FID 27 transactions will be input with the appropriate vessel category for these members,
and DJMS will automatically credit sea duty time. When the member is promoted to grade 34, the appro-
priate rate of pay will be started.

19.6. Officer Under 3 Years Sea Duty. Officers with less than 3 years of sea duty do not receive sea
pay, however, they do receive credit for sea duty time. FID 27 transactions will be input, with the appro-
priate vessel category, for these officers and DJMS will automatically credit sea time. When the 3 year
point is reached, the appropriate rate of pay will be started.

19.7. Members Aboard Category B Vessel. Members serving aboard category B vessels do not receive
sea pay, however, they do receive credit for sea duty time. FID 27 transactions will be input for these
members and DJMS will automatically credit sea time. For periods of time when the vessel is underway
or in a status which authorizes sea pay, input FID 2704 category change to switch to and from non-paying
status and paying status.

19.8. Restriction. Foreign duty pay cannot be paid for the same period as sea pay except when member
is aboard a category B vessel or when there is a period on non-pay sea pay (see paragraphs 19.5. and 19.7.
above.)

19.9. Substantiating Documents. Use DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (MPO), or special orders certi-
fied by the member's commander assigning member to sea duty showing the date member reported and
departed sea duty pay location (see Figure 19.5.). Use travel settlement vouchers to determine periods of
entitlement while TDY.

19.10. Procedures. If a document showing the performance of sea duty is received, determine if member
was previously paid for that period of sea duty. If the member claims previous unpaid periods of sea duty
on a vessel, determine the previous periods. Use all means available (MMPA histories, military pay
records, personnel records, orders, etc.) to determine actual inclusive dates served. Convert to total days
of sea duty based on 30 day months and use the result to verify the T2 data on the MMPA.
330                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      19.10.1. Obtain AF Form 3125, General Purpose. Title the form "Record of Sea Duty Performance."
      Insert these sub-headings:
         19.10.1.1. Document Reference
         19.10.1.2. Document Date
         19.10.1.3. Date Start
         19.10.1.4. Date Stop
         19.10.1.5. Number of Days
         19.10.1.6. Less: Non-creditable
         19.10.1.7. Creditable Days
         19.10.1.8. Cumulative Days
      19.10.2. Complete the AF Form 3125 as follows and file in the Management Case File (MCF). Ref-
      erence Figure 19.2.
         19.10.2.1. Assigned to Sea Duty:
             19.10.2.1.1. Document Reference - Enter order number or MPO number.
             19.10.2.1.2. Document Date - Enter date of orders or date of MPO.
             19.10.2.1.3. Date Start - Enter effective date of entitlement start. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A.
             19.10.2.1.4. Date Stop - Leave blank.
             19.10.2.1.5. Number of Days - Leave blank.
             19.10.2.1.6. Less Non-creditable - Leave blank.
             19.10.2.1.7. Creditable Days - Leave blank.
             19.10.2.1.8. Cumulative Days - Leave blank.
         19.10.2.2. Termination of Sea Duty:
             19.10.2.2.1. Document Reference - Enter order number or MPO number.
             19.10.2.2.2. Document Date - Enter date of orders or date of MPO.
             19.10.2.2.3. Date Start - Leave blank.
             19.10.2.2.4. Date Stop - Enter last day the member performed duty.
             19.10.2.2.5. Number of Days - Subtract date start (of last entry on AF Form 3125) from date
             stop (inclusive days). Use actual calendar days, not 30-day month.
             19.10.2.2.6. Less Non-creditable - See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, table 18-1, to determine
             non-creditable periods of service.
             19.10.2.2.7. Creditable Days - Subtract non-creditable days from number of days.
             19.10.2.2.8. Cumulative Days - Add creditable days to the previous cumulative days.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         331


          19.10.2.2.9. Give member a copy of the completed AF Form 3125 and advise member to file
          it with his or her permanent records to assist the FSO in verifying previous sea duty periods
          should he or she be entitled to sea duty pay again in the future.

19.11. Career Sea Pay Premium Input Format. Prepare Format ID 37 input as shown in Figure 19.6.
for entitled members.
   19.11.1. Start Career Sea Pay - 3701. Establishes the $100 per month entitlement for an indefinite
   period.
   19.11.2. Stop Career Sea Pay - 3702. Terminates entitlement when a member becomes ineligible for
   sea duty pay. When a Career Sea Pay stop is input, the Career Sea Pay Premium entry will be pro-
   grammatically stopped the same date.
   19.11.3. Report Career Sea Pay - 3703. Credits member with one-time entitlement and is used only
   with inclusive dates.
   19.11.4. Correct Career Sea Pay - 3705. Corrects a previous action submitted with an error.
   19.11.5. Cancel Career Sea Pay - 3706. Completely voids a previous submission.

19.12. Career Sea Pay Tables. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 18, tables 18-1 through 18-4B for
the appropriate rate.
332                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 19.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (for Sea Duty Pay).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                               333


Figure 19.2. Record of Sea Duty Performance (Example).
334                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 19.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Submarine Duty.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       01701/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                 DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01703/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


      26-31      DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06

       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01705


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
                 ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              335


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    26-31    DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
             ZEROS


     32      INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


    56-61    PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
             CORRECTED OR ZEROS


    62-67    PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
             OR ZEROS
336                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 19.4. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Change Career Sea Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       02701/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                 DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        CATEGORY-VESSEL: A, B OR C; BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


      33-40      BLANK


       1-5       02703/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25      DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06

      26-31      DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


       32        CATEGORY VESSEL: A, B OR C; BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 06


      33-40      BLANK


       1-5       02704


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                            337


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   15-19  FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT CHANGES


     32      CATEGORY VESSEL: A, B OR C
338                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 19.5. Format to Correct Career Sea Pay.


 CHARACTER                                       DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       02705


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
                 ZEROS


      26-31      DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
                 ZEROS


       32        CATEGORY VESSEL: A, B, C OR BLANK


      39-40      BLANK


      56-61      PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD OF DATE START FROM TRANSACTION
                 BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS


      62-67      PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD OF DATE STOP FROM TRANSACTION
                 BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS

                 IF CORRECTING START AND STOP DATES ONLY, CP 32 IS BLANK. IF
                 CORRECTING CP 32 FOR AN OPEN ENTRY, DATE-START AND
                 PRIOR-DATE-START MUST MATCH START DATE IN OPEN ENTRY. IF
                 CORRECTING CP 32 FOR A CLOSED ENTRY, FIELD MUST BE
                 COMPLETED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             339


Figure 19.6. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Career Sea Pay Premium.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       03701/02


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


      1-5       03703/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS OR ZEROS


     26-31      DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS OR ZEROS


      1-5       03705

      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
                ZEROS


     26-31      DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
                ZEROS
340                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
    56-61  PRIOR-DATE-START: DATE START FROM TRANSACTION BEING
           CORRECTED OR ZEROS


      62-67      PRIOR-DATE-STOP: DATE STOP FROM TRANSACTION BEING
                 CORRECTED OR ZEROS


Figure 19.7. Format to Correct Sea Duty Effective Date.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0T205


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE MEMBER FIRST REPORTED FOR SEA DUTY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          341


                                              Chapter 20

                      FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY PAY (FLPP)

20.1. Description. FLPP is a monthly entitlement payable to officers or enlisted members who are certi-
fied proficient in a foreign language and who meet the conditions of entitlement outlined in the DoDFMR,
Volume 7A, chapter 19.

20.2. Source of Input. The member's servicing MPF submits FLPP transactions as a by-product of the
APDS. Processed transactions appear in section 6 of the servicing FSOs DTR as FID 02; partially pro-
cessed or rejected transactions appear in Section 3.

20.3. FLPP Skill Levels and Rates. Four monthly rates are payable based on the skill level as shown
below:


                              FLPP SKILL                      MONTHLY
                                LEVEL                          RATE


                                    1                             $25


                                    2                             $50


                                    3                             $75

                                    4                            $100

20.4. Multiple Language Entitlement. FLPP may be awarded for multiple languages; however, the
total for all FLPPs may not exceed $100 per month for any member.
342                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 20.1. Formats to Start or Stop/Cancel Foreign Language Proficiency Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       00201


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


       32        FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       33        FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      34-35      FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       36        FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       37        FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      38-39      FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       40        FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       41        FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      42-43      FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       44        FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       45        FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      46-47      FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             343


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     1-5     00202/06


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTED (FOR ACTION
             INDICATOR 06) OR LAST DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT
             SHOULD BE PAID (FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02)


    26-31    DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPPED (FOR ACTION
             INDICATOR 06 FOR CLOSED ENTRY); ZEROES FOR ACTION INDICATOR
             02 OR FOR ACTION INDICATOR 06 FOR OPEN ENTRY


    34-35    FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


    38-39    FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


    42-43    FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK
344                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 20.2. Formats to Report, Change or Correct Foreign Language Proficiency Pay.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5   00203


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      26-31     DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS


       32       FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       33       FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      34-35     FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       36       FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       37       FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      38-39     FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       40       FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       41       FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      42-43     FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       44       FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       45       FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             345


CHARACTER                       DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   46-47  FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


     1-5     00204


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 6 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT CHANGES


     32      FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


     33      FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


    34-35    FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


     36      FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK




     37      FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK

    38-39    FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


     40      FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


     41      FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


    42-43    FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


     44      FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK
346                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    45    FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      46-47   FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       1-5    00205


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS OR ZEROS


      26-31   DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS OR ZEROS


       32     FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       33     FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


      34-35   FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


       48     FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK


       49     FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY: 1 THRU 4 OR BLANK

      50-51   FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE OR BLANK


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED OR ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE


      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          347


                                              Chapter 21

                                         INCENTIVE PAYS

21.1. Description. Incentive pays are authorized for individuals performing functions which qualify for
such pay under conditions outlined in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 22 through 24. Incentive pays
include Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP), Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP), Submarine Duty
Pay, Parachute Duty, Flight Deck Duty, Demolition Duty, and Experimental Stress Duty.

21.2. Entitlement to ACIP, HDIP, and Other Hazardous Duty Incentive Pays. Enlisted members
who qualify may receive a maximum of two HDIPs. If member is assigned by orders to diving duty, then
only one HDIP may be paid. An officer entitled to HDIP for the Airborne Warning and Control System
(AWACS) is not entitled to ACIP or HDIP for flying, but may receive one other payment of hazardous
duty incentive pay. Officers who have continuous or conditional ACIP may also be entitled to two HDIPs
(other than HDIP for flying) if the conditions for the entitlement have been met independently. However,
if assigned by orders to diving duty, then members may only receive one HDIP.
348                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 22

                                  AERIAL FLIGHT INCENTIVE PAYS

22.1. Description. Entitlement conditions for payment of Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP) and
Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP) are found in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 22 through 24.
Entitlement information for career enlisted flyer incentive pay (CEFIP) has not yet been added to the
DoDFMR Vol 7A.

22.2. Source of Input. Host Aviation Resource Management Office (HARM) initiates AF Form 1887,
Request and Authorization for Aeronautical Orders, for members entitled to ACIP or HDIP (see Figure
22.1.). Table 22.1. lists types and sources of supporting documents used to start, stop, and report ACIP
and HDIP. All aeronautical orders (AOs) must show a termination date for non-crew members.
      22.2.1. AOs or MPOs supporting the certifying officer's own entitlement must also be signed by the
      commander or other designated person who has knowledge of the facts.
      22.2.2. Administrative records must be maintained at base level to authorize payments and must be
      available for review by the General Accounting Office if called for (see AFM 60-352 and MS Comp
      Gen B-12507, May 27, 1964).

22.3. Processing Flight Pay Transactions:
      22.3.1. Flight-Crew Status. Identifies the applicable rate and also establishes future transactions for
      increases, decreases, or discontinuances as necessary.
         22.3.1.1. Officers: for O-7 and above with over 25 years of officer service who perform qualified
         aviator duty, start HDIP using crew status code 1 based on current AF Form 1887, Aeronautical
         Order (AO).
             22.3.1.1.1. Code 1 - Identifies a rated officer entitled to ACIP at rates shown in the DoDFMR,
             Volume 7A, chapter 22, table 22-3. This code will provide for programmatic increases or
             decreases based on Aviation Service Date (ASD)/Officer Service Date (OSD). Continuous
             ACIP stops programmatically at the 25-year point, based on the member's OSD. However,
             member may be entitled to Conditional ACIP after that time.
             22.3.1.1.2. Code 2 - Identifies non-rated officer non-crew members entitled to HDIP at the
             rate prescribed by the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 22 through 24. An officer in this cate-
             gory can be identified by aviation service code (ASC) 9C in item 16 of the AO. This type of
             flight pay will automatically terminate upon PCS.
             22.3.1.1.3. Code 3 - Identifies a non-rated officer crewmember. An officer in this category
             can be identified by ASC 9D in item 16 of the AO. This flight-crew status will continue to pay
             HDIP until stopped by appropriate transaction input.
             22.3.1.1.4. Code 4 - Identifies AWACS air weapons controllers. An officer in this category
             can be identified by ASC 9W in item 16 of the AO. This code will provide for programmatic
             increases or decreases based on AWACS experience date.
         22.3.1.2. Enlisted:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           349


          22.3.1.2.1. Code 1 - Identifies an enlisted crewmember ASC 9D. The rates payable are shown
          in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 22, table 22-1. This type of flight pay will continue until
          stopped by appropriate transaction input.
          22.3.1.2.2. Code 2 - Identifies an enlisted non-crew member ASC 9C, paid at the rates shown
          in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 22 through 24. This type of flight pay will automatically
          terminate upon separation or PCS.
          22.3.1.2.3. Code 4 - Identifies AWACS air weapons controllers. A member in this category
          can be identified by ASC 9W in item 16 of the AO. This code will provide for programmatic
          increases or decreases based on AWACS experience date.
   22.3.2. ASD/OSD. These dates dictate the rates payable to rated officers entitled to ACIP. To pay the
   entitlement correctly, ASD/OSD must be in an open TN entry on the MMPA or in the 1201 (start) or
   1203 (report) transaction.
   22.3.3. AWACS Experience Date. This date, in addition to the grade, determines the rate payable to
   members entitled to HDIP.
      22.3.3.1. The AWACS experience date is the first day of training in career field G17XX. Use the
      TDY orders assigning the member to AWACS training to establish the original AWACS experi-
      ence date. If the officer changes from career field G17XX and is no longer eligible for AWACS,
      and at a later date reenters the G17XX career field, the AWACS experience date will be re-com-
      puted by AFPC and a new date will be input to change the date in the TN entry.
      22.3.3.2. The AWACS experience date will not be re-computed if member performs other than
      AWACS duty for less than 90 days.
      22.3.3.3. If member performs primary duties other than AWACS duty for more than 90 days, the
      date will be re-computed. For example, original AWACS experience date is 811001 and member
      does not perform primary AWACS duty for 4 months and 16 days. The new AWACS experience
      date becomes 820217.


                             81-10-01
                               + 4-16
                             81-14-17
                                 or
                             82-02-17



22.4. Computer Actions - Selective Transactions:
   22.4.1. Start Flight Pay for Officers - Crew Status 1. This transaction establishes the entitlement on
   the MMPA based on the ASD/OSD (TN entry) on the MMPA. If no TN entry has been established on
   the MMPA, the ASD/OSD in the start transaction will create a TN entry on which to base rates. When
   the ASD/OSD is in the transaction and the MMPA shows a TN entry established by AFPC, the trans-
   action dates are ignored. The start transaction will create a "future" to update ACIP based on ASD or
   OSD, whichever applies.
350                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      22.4.2. Start Flight Pay for Officers - Crew Status 3. This transaction establishes HDIP at the rates
      shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 22 through 24. This transaction does not require ASD/
      OSD. No "future" transaction is created to either adjust rates or terminate entitlement.
      22.4.3. Start Flight Pay for Officers or Enlisted - Crew Status 2. This transaction establishes HDIP at
      the rates shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 22 through 24. No ASD/OSD is required.
      This type of flight pay will automatically terminate for both enlisted and officers upon PCS.
      22.4.4. Start Flight Pay for Enlisted - Crew Status 1. This transaction starts flight pay based on grade
      as shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A. No futures are established to discontinue the entitlement.
      22.4.5. Start AWACS Pay for Members - Crew Status 4. This transaction establishes the entitlement
      on the MMPA based on the AWACS experience date. If no TN entry has been established on the
      MMPA, the AWACS experience date in the start transaction will create a TN entry on which to base
      rates. These rates are shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 22 through 24. Also, a manage-
      ment notice UQ03 will be sent to AFPC for their confirmation or correction. When the AWACS expe-
      rience date is in the transaction and the MMPA shows a TN entry established by AFPC, the
      transaction dates are ignored. The start transaction will create a "future" to update AWACS experi-
      ence date. AWACS is payable to officers assigned an AFSC of G17XX and are assigned to the fol-
      lowing aircraft: E-2C, E-3A, EC-130, or the British Nimrod.
      22.4.6. Confirmation of ASD/OSD for Rated Officers (AFPC input). The TN05 transaction confirms
      the dates in the 1201 for officers with a crew status 1. A "Y" indicator is established in the TN entry
      upon processing. If the dates in the TN entry disagree with those in the TN05 transaction, the TN05
      transaction will take precedence. The ASD/OSD dates are changed and a management notice is sent
      to DFAS-DE/FJ to determine if a rate adjustment is needed. The effective date of the entitlement is
      not changed, but the "future" is corrected to show the new effective date of the next rate adjustment.
      22.4.7. Closure of ASD/OSD for Rated Officers (AFPC input). When a blank TN05 is received
      (meaning member is no longer entitled to ACIP), it closes the open TN entry on the MMPA, stops the
      entitlement at the end of the previous processing month, and issues a UI management notice to the
      FSO. The management notice states: "ASD/OSD entry closed, flight pay stopped end of previous
      processing month. 1205 action may be required to correct stop date."

22.5. Verification of DJMS and Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS):
      22.5.1. A comparison of the DJMS records and Flight Management Records will be made quarterly
      to detect differences in entitlements and pay. The FSO requests an entitlement verification through
      the DMO to identify all members currently being paid flight pay (FID 12), HDIP (FID 12), and Para-
      chute Pay (FID 15) and forwards the listing to the HARM. The HARM reviews the listing and deter-
      mines if the entitlement is valid for all members listed. This listing is also used to identify personnel
      not being paid flight pay for which an entitlement exists at the HARM.
      22.5.2. Upon receipt of the listing, the HARM or FSO should research to see if any discrepancies
      exist. The research is to include, but is not limited to, unprocessed AOs, flight records, etc. Upon
      completion of the research, necessary AOs, MPOs, and corresponding HARM or DJMS input is pro-
      cessed.

22.6. Workaround Procedures for Career Enlisted Flight Incentive Pay (CEFIP). This entitlement
has not been added to the Vol 7a.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             351


  22.6.1. Background: Career Enlisted Flyer Incentive Pay was implemented as a new entitlement for
  enlisted members, as of 1 October 1999. The FY 2000 National Defense Authorization Act contained
  legislation authorizing certain career flyers to receive this incentive pay. This entitlement is paid
  based on the number of years of aviation service (ASD) and is a prorated entitlement. The law does
  not allow most CEFIP members to receive special duty assignment pay (SDAP) along with the CEFIP.
  However, there was a provision in the law to entitle members to save pay for the SDAP they were
  receiving at the time CEFIP was implemented; the save pay was eliminated in February 2003 for
  members who were converted to CEFIP in 1999. Members whose specialty codes were converted to
  CEFIP at a later date were allowed to continue to receive the save pay portion beyond the February
  2003 date.
  22.6.2. The entitlement is taxable and payable as follows, based on years of aviation service:


             4 years or less:       $150/mo
             over   4 years:        $225/mo
             over   8 years:        $350/mo
             over 14 years:         $400/mo


  22.6.3. HQ USAF/XOOT identified all current career enlisted aviators (CEA’s), authorized to receive
  this entitlement, to DFAS along with their aviation service dates. DFAS-PMJ is posting TN entries to
  the MMPAs and taking additional steps to help ensure future rate increases are paid correctly. Be
  mindful that there are still members entitled to the old HDIP and these rates are found in JWMM
  tables 003 and 004 depending on crew status.
  22.6.4. The HARM has access to the case management system (CMS) and will prepare a CMS case
  for every transaction for members receiving flight pay, officer or enlisted, for a start, stop or change.
  The substantiating documentation is the AO, which substantiates the start, stop or change. No longer
  is a DD Form 114 required from the HARM when there is an AO issued. There are situations, how-
  ever, in which a member is not required to have an AO and, in those cases, the CMS case from the
  HARM is the substantiation. The HARM establishes the CMS case and refers it to DFAS-JMC/DE
  for action. Required DFAS input can be verified by the HARM office once the case is returned from
  DFAS.
  22.6.5. Workaround for Conditional CEFIP. Once an enlisted member has reached 25 years of flying
  experience his/her fly pay is based upon meeting certain flying qualifications. These include a mini-
  mum number of flying hours per month; however, members are given a grace period and hours from
  one month may be applied to a month that is short of the requirement. The HARM is required to mon-
  itor these hours. Once the CMS case is established to start CEFIP on a member, it does not stop until
  the HARM establishes a case to stop it because the member failed to meet the flying hours require-
  ments.
  22.6.6. FSO’s are required to produce entitlement verification reports (EVR) in January, April, July
  and October at a minimum, as well as upon request by the HARM office. The EVR can be produced
  either from offline or DMO. Once the report is produced, provide a copy of the listing to the HARM.
  The HARM will validate the entitlement and annotate discrepancies on the report, before returning it
352                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      to the FSO. Request that the HARM include the ASD, for each member identified with a discrepancy,
      on the report before sending it back to you. Once the annotated report is received from the HARM,
      look at the amount of the CEFIP the member is receiving, using the ASD to dictate the correct
      amount, and determine what action is needed. Get appropriate supporting documentation from the
      HARM and ensure the necessary adjustments are made. Maintain a copy of the EVR for 6 months
      and, if changes are made based solely on the report, submit a copy of the report with your quarterly
      source document submission.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                 353


Figure 22.1. Computer Generated AF Form 1887, Request and Authorization for Aeronautical
Orders.
                                  AERONAUTICAL ORDER (PA)
                                     AVIATION SERVICE




CHANGE TERMINATION DATE                             ENTITLEMENT: HDIP
                                                                         IS NOT AFFECTED

NAME: INDIVIDUAL’S NAME        GRADE: SMS                    SSAN: 123-45-6789
CREW POSITION: NONRATED AIR CREW MEMBER
WING: 0000                                          ORGANIZATION: 0022OFFICE SYMBOL: DO3I
LOCATION: BUCKLEY ANG, CO

REQUIRED TO PERFORM FREQUENT AND REGULAR FLIGHTS: YES
REQUIRED TO PERFORM PARACHUTE DUTIES            :     NO

ASC: 9D               FAC:       TSC:        ASD:           OSD:         OFDA:

REMARKS: MEMBER’S TERMINATION DATE IS CHANGED TO REFLECT NEW DATE OF SEPARATION.




EFFECTIVE DATE: 01 OCT 90                    TERMINATION DATE: 30 SEP 95

AUTHORITY: AFR 60-1    PARAGRAPH 2-4                        REQUEST DATE: 11 AUG 94

SIGNATURE ELEMENT OF ORDERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICIAL:
FOR THE COMMANDER
                                                 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                 0120 FIGHTER SQ CO ANG
                                                 BUCKLEY ANG BASE AURORA CO 80011
THOMAS C. MAY, GS7, USAF
NCOIC FLIGHT MANAGEMENT


DISTIBUTION: C                          AERONAUTICAL ORDER NUMBER: 0114
354                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 22.2. Formats to Start/Stop/Change, Report/Cancel or Correct ACIP, HDIP or AWACS.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5   01201/02/04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST DAY THROUGH
                WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID OR DATE ON WHICH
                ENTITLEMENT CHANGED


       32       INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER:
                1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET
                2--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS NOT MET
                IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 01 OR 04 INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER MUST BE
                1
                IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02 INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER MAY BE 1 OR 2


       33       FLIGHT CREW STATUS:
                1--CREW MEMBER
                2--NON-CREW MEMBER
                3--NON-RATED OFFICER CREW MEMBER
                4--AWACS CREW MEMBER


      34-39     MEMBER’S AVIATION SERVICE DATE (ASD); BLANK FOR ACTION
                INDICATOR 02


      40-45     MEMBER’S AWACS EXPERIENCE DATE; BLANK FOR ACTION
                INDICATOR 02


       1-5      01203/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            355


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   15-19  FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


    26-31    DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS


     32      INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER:
             1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET
             2--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS NOT MET
             IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 03, MUST BE 1
             IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 06, MUST BE THE SAME AS IN THE
             TRANSACTION BEING CANCELED




     33      FLIGHT CREW STATUS:
             1--CREW MEMBER
             2--NON-CREW MEMBER
             3--NON-RATED OFFICER CREW MEMBER
             4--AWACS CREW MEMBER


    34-39    MEMBER’S AVIATION SERVICE DATE (ASD); BLANK FOR ACTION
             INDICATOR 06
356                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   40-45  MEMBER’S OFFICER SERVICE DATE (OSD); BLANK FOR ACTION
          INDICATOR 06


      46-51   MEMBER’S AWAC EXPERIENCE DATE; BLANK FOR ACTION INDICATOR
              06


       1-5    01205


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
              ZEROS


      26-31   DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
              ZEROS


       32     INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER:
              1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET
              2--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS NOT MET


       33     FLIGHT CREW STATUS:
              1--CREW MEMBER
              2--NON-CREW MEMBER
              3--NON-RATED OFFICER CREW MEMBER
              4--AWACS CREW MEMBER


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED OR ZEROS


      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              357


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             ACTION INDICATOR 04 IS USED TO CHANGE FLIGHT CREW STATUS FOR
             AN OPEN ENTRY; FOR CHANGES TO CLOSED ENTRIES A CANCEL
             TRANSACTION FOLLOWED BY A REPORT TRANSACTION IS USED
             ACTION INDICATOR 05 IS USED TO CORRECT DATES ONLY
358                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 22.3. Format to Confirm ASD, OSD and AWACS Experience Date.

 CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
  POSITION

       1-5     0TN05

      6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

      15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME

      20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S AVIATION SERVICE DATE; BLANK FOR AWACS


               .
      26-31    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S OFFICER SERVICE DATE; BLANK FOR AWACS

      32-37    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S AWACS EXPERIENCE DATE; BLANK FOR ACIP
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                                     359


Table 22.1. Incentive Pay – Supporting Documents.
 R
                                           Conditional        Conditional                                                           Termination
 U                                         Entitlement,       Entitlement,                                                          of Flying
                         Continuous                                            PCS to Flying PCS to
 L                                         Require-           Require-                                                              Require-
                         Entitlement                                           Duties        Non-Flying
        Class of                           ments Not          ments Met                                                             ments            Death
 E                                         Met                                               Duties
        Member
                                                                                                                   Suspension
     1 Enlisted air      AF Form           AF Form 1887       AF Form 1887     AF Form 1887     AF Form 1887       AF Form 1887     AF form 1887     Report death
       crew member       1887, Request     or DD Form         or DD Form       to stop on       to stop pay        or DD Form       to stop pay,     to DFAS-DE
                         and               114, showing       114, showing     departure date   effective on       114 to stop      (must contain,   per Chapter
                         Authorization     SSN, name,         SSN, name,       (must contain    date of            pay (must        SSN, name,       54. No further
                         for               HDIP, crew         HDIP, crew       SSN, name,       departure or       contain SSN,     HDIP, and        action
                         Aeronautical      status, and last   status, date     HDIP, and        120 days after     name, HDIP,      crew status).    necessary.
                         Orders,           day HDIP           start. See       crew status).    notification, as   and crew
                         showing SSN,      payable. See       note.                             applicable         status). One
                         name, HDIP,       note.                                                (must contain      day before
                         crew status,                                                           SSN, name,         effective date
                         action                                                                 HDIP, and          of suspension.
                         required, and                                                          crew status).
                         effective date.
     2 Rated officers    AF Form 1887                                                                              DD Form 114                       AF Form 1887
       (continuous       showing SSN,                                                                              to stop pay 1                     to stop pay,
       entitlement)      name, ACIP,                                                                               day before                        (must contain
                         ASD/OSD,                                                                                  effective date                    SSN, name,
                         and effective                                                                             of suspension                     and crew
                         date.                                                                                     (must contain                     status).
                                                                                                                   SSN, name).
     3 Rated officers                      See rule 1,        See rule 1,      See rule 1,      AF Form 1887 See rule 2.                             See rule 1.
       (conditional                        delete HDIP,       delete HDIP,     delete HDIP,     to stop pay
       entitlement for                     and substitute     and substitute   and substitute   effective on
       pilots and                          ACIP.              ACIP.            ACIP.            date of
       navigators)                                                                              departure
                                                                                                (must contain
                                                                                                SSN, name).
     4 Flight                              See rule 3.        See rule 3.      See rule 3.      See rule 3.                                          See rule 2.
       surgeons
     5 Non-crew                            See rule 1.        See rule 1.      Programmati-     See rule 1.        See rule 1.      See rule 1.      See rule 1.
       members                                                                 cally stopped
       (enlisted or                                                            on PCS.
       officer)

NOTE: HDIP or ACIP started any day other than the first day of the month or terminated any day other
than the last day of the month, is prorated. If stop date is the same as the day of retirement or separation,
no documentation or processing is required.
360                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               Chapter 23

               PARACHUTE DUTY, FLIGHT DECK DUTY, DEMOLITION DUTY,
               EXPERIMENTAL STRESS DUTY AND OTHER INCENTIVE PAYS

Section 23A—Parachute Duty.

23.1. Description. The DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 24 describes entitlement to incentive pay for
parachute duty. Two types are payable: Type 1 for jumps from an aircraft in aerial flight, and Type 2 for
jumps at a high altitude with a low opening (HALO) from an aircraft in aerial flight. See Table 23.1. for
conditions under which the jump requirement may be waived.

23.2. Source of Input. The FSO prepares start and stop transactions based on AOs received from the
HARM. Other actions are substantiated by a DD Form 114. See Table 23.2. for detailed information
concerning supporting documentation for parachute jump pay. Parachute jump pay is found on the
MMPA as FID 15 (see Figure 23.4. and Figure 23.5.). To ensure that a member’s duties have not been
changed, a listing of members receiving parachute duty pay, prepared by the FSO, will be reviewed and
verified quarterly by the HARM. There is no requirement for the FSO to maintain a copy of the listing.
However, if changes are required, the FSO processes the changes based on certification by the HARM and
the certified document becomes a source document and must be handled accordingly.

Section 23B—Flight Deck Duty (FDHDP).

23.3. Description. The DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 24, describes entitlement to incentive pay for
flight deck duty. FDHDP is prorated for the days of the calendar month during which orders are in effect
provided the full months' participation requirements have been met.

23.4. Source of Input. The FSO prepares start transactions based on special orders assigning a member
to flight deck duty. Other actions are substantiated by a DD Form 114. FDHDP is found on the MMPA
as FID 11 (see Figure 23.2.). To ensure that a member’s duties have not been changed, a listing of mem-
bers receiving flight deck duty pay, prepared by the FSO, will be reviewed and verified annually by the
member’s commander. There is no requirement for the FSO to maintain a copy to this listing. However,
if changes are required, the FSO processes the changes based on certification by the commander and the
certified document becomes a source document and must be handled accordingly.

Section 23C—Demolition Duty.

23.5. Description. The DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 24 describes entitlement to demolition duty
incentive pay for members performing duty involving live explosives.

23.6. Source of Input. Using a DD Form 114 and a letter prepared by the unit commander. See Table
23.3. for additional information on supporting documentation for demolition duty. Demolition duty pay
is found on the MMPA as FID 10 (see Figure 23.1.). To ensure that a member’s duties have not changed,
a listing of members receiving demolition pay and a certification letter prepared by the FSO, will be
reviewed and verified annually by the member’s commander. FSO will suspense the item for 30 days and
maintain a copy of this listing and certification letter per normal documentation retention. If changes are
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             361


required, the FSO processes the changes based on the certification by the commander and the certified
document becomes a source document and must be handled accordingly.

Section 23D—Experimental Stress Duty.

23.7. Description. The DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 24 describes entitlement to incentive pay for
experimental stress duty as any of the following: human acceleration or deceleration experimental sub-
jects, human thermal experimental subjects, or human test subjects for high or low pressure chamber duty.

23.8. Source of Input. The FSO prepares DD Form 114 and input for all experimental stress duty trans-
actions based on assignment orders from the member's unit. See Table 23.4. for additional information
concerning supporting documentation for stress duty. Experimental stress duty is found on the MMPA as
FID 16 (see figure 23.6). To ensure that a member’s duties have not been changed, a listing of members
receiving experimental stress duty pay, prepared by FSO, will be reviewed and verified annually by the
member’s commander. There is no requirement for the FSO to maintain a copy of this listing. However,
if changes are required, the FSO processes the changes based on certification by the commander and the
certified document becomes a source document and must be handled accordingly.

Section 23E—Toxic Fuels or Propellants Duty, Toxic Pesticides Duty, Dangerous Viruses or Bacteria
Lab Duty, and Chemical Munitions Duty.

23.9. Description. The DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 24 describes entitlement to incentive pay for duty
involving the above types of duty.

23.10. Source of Input. The FSO starts these incentive pays based on assignment orders received from
member's unit. All other input is supported by a DD Form 114 prepared by the FSO. These incentive
pays are identified on the MMPA as FID 16. To ensure that a member’s duties have not been changed, a
listing of members receiving any of the following, prepared by the FSO, will be reviewed and verified
annually. There is no requirement for the FSO to maintain a copy of this listing. However, if changes are
required, the FSO processes the changes based on certification by the commander and the certified docu-
ment becomes a source document and must be handled accordingly.
   23.10.1. Toxic fuels or propellants duty;
   23.10.2. Toxic pesticides duty; dangerous viruses;
   23.10.3. Bacteria lab duty or chemical munitions duty pay

23.11. Workaround Procedures for Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP) for use of Ski-Equipped
Aircraft on the Ground in Antarctica or on Arctic Ice-Pack.
   23.11.1. Beginning on or after 1 October 2003, Public Law 108-136, section 615, authorized hazard-
   ous duty incentive pay for use of ski-equipped aircraft to any member of a uniformed service who is
   entitled to basic pay. To qualify, a member must participate in a take-off from, or landing on, the
   ground in Antarctica or the Arctic Ice-Pack, or the servicing of, or the handling of cargo in connection
   with such aircraft on the ground in such a polar region. The appropriate Commander will certify those
   members who are under competent orders to perform such duty in a calendar month.
362                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      23.11.2. The workaround to pay the entitlement at a $5/day or $150/month rate is to use FID 16. Pro-
      cess a 1603 transaction to report the entitlement (pays after the fact) with a stress-duty-pay-type-code
      of ‘1’. Once the 1603 has posted to the MMPA, open a CMS case and refer to the appropriate TD
      box, requesting that DFAS overlay the stress-duty-pay-type-code to ‘8’.
      23.11.3. DELETED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      363


Figure 23.1. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Demolition Duty.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       01001/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                 DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01003/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


     26-31       DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06

       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01005


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OF
                 ZEROS
364                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      26-31   DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
              ZEROS


       32     INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED OR ZEROS


      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   365


Figure 23.2. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Flight Deck Duty.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       01101/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                 DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01103/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


     26-31       DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06

       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       1-5       01105


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OF
                 ZEROS
366                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      26-31   DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
              ZEROS


       32     INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED OR ZEROS


      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                367


Figure 23.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Change Incentive Pay - Parachute Jumping
Duty.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        01501/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                 DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       33        HIGH-ALTITUDE-LOW-OPENING (HALO) CODE:
                 2--IF FOR HALO
                 BLANK IN ALL OTHER CASES

      1-5        01503/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


     26-31       DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       33        HIGH-ALTITUDE-LOW-OPENING (HALO) CODE:
                 2--IF FOR HALO
                 BLANK IN ALL OTHER CASES
368                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       1-5    01504


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT CHANGES


       32     INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       33     HIGH-ALTITUDE-LOW-OPENING (HALO) CODE:
              2--IF CHANGING FROM PARACHUTE DUTY TO HALO DUTY
              BLANK IF CHANGING FROM HALO DUTY TO PARACHUTE DUTY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  369


Figure 23.4. Format to Correct Incentive Pay - Parachute Jumping Duty.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        01505


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OF
                 ZEROS


     26-31       DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
                 ZEROS


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       33        HIGH-ALTITUDE-LOW-OPENING (HALO) CODE:
                 2--IF FOR HALO
                 BLANK IN ALL OTHER CASES


     56-61       PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
                 CORRECTED OR ZEROS


     62-67       PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
                 OR ZEROS
370                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 23.5. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct Incentive Pay - Stress Duty.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       01601/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR LAST
                 DAY THROUGH WHICH ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID (STOP)


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


       33        STRESS-DUTY-PAY-TYPE-CODE:
                 1--HUMAN ACCELERATION OR DECELERATION
                 2—THERMAL STRESS
                 3--HIGH OR LOW PRESSURE
                 4--TOXIC FUEL HANDLERS/PROPELLANTS
                 5--DANGEROUS VIRUSES OR BACTERIA LAB DUTY
                 6--TOXIC PESTICIDES
                 7—CHEMICAL MUNITIONS

       1-5       01603/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


      26-31      DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS FOR 03/ZEROS FOR 06


       32        INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              371


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     33      STRESS-DUTY-PAY-TYPE-CODE:
             1--HUMAN ACCELERATION OR DECELERATION
             2—THERMAL STRESS
             3--HIGH OR LOW PRESSURE
             4--TOXIC FUEL HANDLERS/PROPELLANTS
             5--DANGEROUS VIRUSES OR BACTERIA LAB DUTY
             6--TOXIC PESTICIDES
             7—CHEMICAL MUNITIONS


     1-5     01605


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OF
             ZEROS




    26-31    DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR
             ZEROS


     32      INCENTIVE-PAY-QUALIFIER: 1--PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS MET


     33      STRESS-DUTY-PAY-TYPE-CODE:
             1--HUMAN ACCELERATION OR DECELERATION
             2—THERMAL STRESS
             3--HIGH OR LOW PRESSURE
             4--TOXIC FUEL HANDLERS/PROPELLANTS
372                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


              5--DANGEROUS VIRUSES OR BACTERIA LAB DUTY
              6--TOXIC PESTICIDES
              7—CHEMICAL MUNITIONS


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED OR ZEROS


      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                 373


Table 23.1. Waiver of JUMPS Requirement – Incentive Pay – Parachute Jumping Duty.
 R                   A                                  B                                    C
 U
 L
 E


     If a member                        then FSO receives from FMO            and included on form is a
  1 has been unable to qualify for        DD Form 114 at end of month in      certificate that military
    parachute pay in a 3-month period     which fourth jump is completed      operations of the particular
    but qualifies by making four jumps                                        command, or absence of jump
    during a 12 consecutive month                                             equipment or aircraft, prevented
    period (or by four jumps in less than                                     member from making one or
    12 months)                                                                more jumps during 3
                                                                              consecutive months (see note).
                                                                              List all jumps made during the
                                                                              12-month (or less) period. Also
                                                                              show date of any other DD
                                                                              Forms 114 submitted to FSO
                                                                              during 12-month period.
  2 qualified for parachute pay and a DD DD Form 114 for remaining month
    Form 114 was submitted under rule 1 or months of 12-month period
    before end of 12-month period, and
    during remainder of this period
    military operations or absence of
    jump equipment or aircraft was again
    the only reason for not performing
    one or more jumps during a 3-month
    period
  3 has been granted a waiver of jump   DD Form 114 to authorize payment      statement that jump
    requirements                        for period of waiver (if continuing   requirements were waived
                                        payment is authorized, submit a       because member's engagement
                                        separate DD Form 114 when             in combat operations in a hostile
                                        waiver no longer applies)             fire area prevented the member
                                                                              from performing any parachute
                                                                              jumps for period involved (show
                                                                              inclusive dates). Statement must
                                                                              be certified by member's
                                                                              commander.

NOTE: Only the USAF Chief of Staff, commanders of major commands, or commanders or parachute or
airborne units, schools, test stations, and centers may certify that a member was unable to meet jump
requirements over a 3-month period because of military operations of the command or absence of jump
equipment or aircraft.
374                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 23.2. Jumping Duty – Incentive Pay – Supporting Documents.
 R                      A                                         B                               C
 U
 L
 E


      To                                       the FSO receives                           from
  1 certify that member meets jumps            MPO showing date entered on jumping        Flight
    requirements initially                     duty at present station, and date          Management
                                               performance requirements were met          Office
                                               (note 1)                                   (FMO).
  2 certify for parachute jumping pay based    DD Form 114 as shown in table 40.4
    on jumps over 12-month period, or to
    waive minimum jump requirements
  3 support credit when a member is          DD Form 114 before end of 3-month
    physically incapacitated as a result of  grace period
    performing assigned hazardous duty (note
    3)
  4 support credit to a member required to     DD Form 114 before end of 3-month
    perform multiple hazardous duties, when    grace period (note 2); certificate shown
    member is incapacitated as a result of     in note 5 is included and modified to
    performing one of these duties             cover multiple hazardous duties
  5 continue incentive pay on reassignment     reassignment MPO stating that
    (PCS) when orders remain in effect         hazardous duty orders remain in effect
  6 stop incentive pay on reassignment (PCS) reassignment MPO to stop incentive pay
                                             on day after member departs old station
  7 discontinue incentive pay on discharge     reenlistment MPO stating that
    and immediate reenlistment at same         hazardous duty orders do not remain in
    station, when orders do not remain in      effect, which stops credits
    effect
  8 stop incentive pay on final discharge or   MPO to close member's account,
    separation, if not last day of duty        showing last day of entitlement
  9 stop incentive pay on final discharge or   nothing; separation message stops
    separation, on last day of duty            incentive pay
 10 suspend from jumping duty                  MPO relieving member from hazardous
                                               duty
 11 stop incentive pay for periodic            DD Form 114 instructing FSO to stop        unit.
    nonperformance when member retains         incentive pay for specific period(s)
    parachute duty assignment                  involved (note 4)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         375


NOTES:
     1. Performance requirements means member made one or more parachute jumps.
         2. Determine the 3-month period separately for each type of hazardous duty.
         3. Do not rescind jump status orders for 6 months (see AFI 36-2605).
         4. When incentive pay is stopped under provision of rule 12 and member retains parachute
            jumping duty assignment, DD Form 114 is issued to FSO to restart incentive pay for month in
            which member again meets performance requirement.
         5. Squadron commander informs FSO when member fails to meet performance requirements:
           "I certify that the member named herein is physically incapacitated for parachute duty.
The incapacity was the result of participation in such duty. The incapacity began on __________; during
the period ___________ to ___________ the member continued to be incapacitated."
____________           ___________________________________
(Date)                 (Signature of authorized medical authority)
                       ___________________________________
                       (Grade, organization, and SSN)
376                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 23.3. Incentive Pay – Demolition Duty – Supporting Documents.
 R                        A                                         B                              C
 U
 L
 E


      To                                         FSO receives                               from
  1 start incentive pay                          DD Form 114 and a letter from the unit unit.
                                                 commander assigning member to
                                                 demolition duty (note 1)
  2 stop incentive pay for periodic              DD Form 114 instructing FSO to stop
    nonperformance when member retains           incentive pay for specific period(s)
    demolition duty assignment                   involved (note 2)
  3 support credit when a member is              DD Form 114 before the end of the
    physically incapacitated as a result of      3-month grace period (note 3) and
    performing the assigned hazardous duty       includes certificate shown in note 5
  4 support credit to a member required to       DD Form 114 before the end of the
    perform multiple hazardous duties, when      3-month grace period (note 3) and
    member is incapacitated as result of         includes the certificate shown in note 5
    performing one of these duties               with first sentence modified to cover
                                                 multiple hazardous duties
  5 stop incentive pay on reassignment (PCS) Nothing. DJMS processing
                                             automatically stops.
  6 stop incentive pay on discharge and      DD Form 114 from the member’s unit
    immediate reenlistment at same location, showing the entitlement stop date signed
    when entitlement to demolition duty does by the commander.
    not remain in effect
  7 stop incentive pay on final discharge or     MPO to stop entitlement showing last
    separation if entitlement ends before last   day of entitlement
    day of duty
  8 stop incentive pay on final discharge or     nothing; separation message showing
    separation if entitlement ends on last day   last day of entitlement
    of duty
  9 suspend member from demolition duty          MPO relieving member from duty (note
                                                 1)

NOTES:
     1. Performance requirements means member performed demolition duty by use of live explo-
        sives each and every month. To start incentive pay, show date member entered on type of duty
        involved at present station, and date member initially met performance requirements.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      377


     2. When incentive pay is stopped under provision of rule 2 and member retains demolition duty
        assignment, DD Form 114 issued to FSO to restart incentive pay for month in which member
        again meets performance.
     3. For demolition duty, fact of injury fulfills requirements for month of injury.
     4. Squadron commander informs FSO when member fails to meet performance requirements.
     5. "I certify that the member named herein is physically incapacitated for such duty. The inca-
        pacity began on __________. During the period ___________ to ___________the member
        continued to be incapacitated."
     __________             __________________________________
     (Date)                 (Signature of authorized medical authority)
              ___________________________________
              (Grade, organization, and SSN)
378                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 23.4. Incentive Pay – Stress Duty – Supporting Documents.
 R                         A                                                  B
 U
 L
 E


      To                                             FSO receives from unit
  1 start incentive pay                              official order letter assigning member the duty,
                                                     showing date member entered on type of duty
                                                     involved at present station and date member first
                                                     met performance requirements (note 1).
  2 stop incentive pay for periodic nonperformance DD Form 114, instructing FSO to stop incentive
    when member retains stress duty assignment pay for specific period(s) involved (note 2).
  3 support credit when a member is physically       DD Form 114 before end of 3-month grace period
    incapacitated as a result of performing          (note 3), including certificate shown in note 6.
    hazardous duty
  4 support credit to a member required to perform   DD Form 114 before end of 3-month grace period
    multiple hazardous duties, when member is        (notes 3 and 4), including certificate shown in note
    incapacitated as result of performing one of     6 with first sentence modified to cover multiple
    these duties                                     hazardous duties.
  5 stop incentive pay on reassignment (PCS)         reassignment MPO, instructing FSO to stop
                                                     incentive pay on day member departs from old
                                                     station.
  6 stop incentive pay on discharge and immediate
    reenlistment at same station, when orders do
    not remain in effect
  7 stop incentive pay on final discharge or          an MPO to stop entitlement, showing last day of
    separation if entitlement ends before last day of entitlement.
    duty
  8 stop incentive pay on final discharge or         nothing; separation message stops incentive for
    separation if entitlement ends on last day of    stress duty.
    duty
  9 suspend member from stress duty                  from the unit an MPO relieving member from duty
                                                     (note 5)

NOTES:
     1. Performance requirements means member:
           a. Performed pressure chamber duty as inside observer, as certified by physiological training
              unit (see AFI 11-403 and AFR 161-19). Hospital starts paper work.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        379


        b. Engaged in one or more qualifying stress experiments as certified by head of the labora-
           tory or designee (designee must be grade 37 or above, or civilian, GS-7 or above).
     2. When incentive pay is stopped under provision of rule 2 and member retains stress duty
        assignment, DD Form 114 issued to FSO to restart incentive pay for month in which member
        again meets performance requirements.
     3. For stress duty, fact of injury fulfills requirements for month of injury.
     4. Determine 3-month period separately for each type of hazardous duty.
     5. "I certify that the member named herein is physically incapacitated for stress duty. The inca-
        pacity began on __________. During the period ___________ to ___________ the member
        continued to be incapacitated."
     ________       ____________________________________
     (Date)         (Signature of authorized medical authority)
                    ___________________________________
                    (Grade, organization, and SSN)
380                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               Chapter 24

                                     ALLOWANCES - GENERAL

24.1. Description. An allowance is defined in the Definitions of the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, as a mone-
tary amount paid to an individual in lieu of furnished quarters, subsistence, etc. Policy on entitlement to,
and payment of, allowances is contained in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 25 through 31. Basic Allow-
ance for Housing (BAH) entitlement is contained in the Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR), chapter
10.

24.2. Responsibilities. Responsibility for determination of entitlement to the various allowances rests
with various organizations at the local level; for example, the commander’s support staff is the primary
office of responsibility in determining whether to pay a member Family Subsistence Supplemental Allow-
ance (FSSA).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           381


                                              Chapter 25

                        BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR SUBSISTENCE (BAS)

25.1. Description. Reference the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, Chapter 25. Effective 1 January 2002, all
enlisted members, after completing basic training, are entitled to Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS)
on a permanent basis. BAS for basic trainees will start on the date of graduation from basic training and
will be paid based on a 30-day month. The new types of BAS are:
   25.1.1. Type S: Standard
   25.1.2. Type O: Officer BAS

25.2. Policy on BAS – Enlisted Members: Enlisted members who are subsisted-in-kind must pay for
their meals by having the discount meal collection rate collected via payroll deduction. These members
are now referred to as members who are under Essential Station Messing (ESM). ESM is the messing
declared by the base commander responsible for single government quarters and the messing facility.
ESM should be applied uniformly for all enlisted members who are permanently assigned to single gov-
ernment quarters.
   25.2.1. Exceptions: Exceptions to applying ESM uniformly to enlisted members may be made only
   when assigned duties prevent a member from being able to eat more than 20% of their meals in the
   dining facility on a regular basis. To illustrate, using a 30-day month, there are 90 government meals
   made available (3 x 30). A percentage break down results in:
       25.2.1.1. 90 meals (80%) = 72 meals
       25.2.1.2. 90 meals (20%) = 18 meals
       25.2.1.3. If a member consistently misses more than 18 meals per month, the commander may
       consider removing the member from ESM and allow BAS without deduction. Commanders are
       required to demonstrate that members not subject to ESM are missing meals due to assigned duties
       on a consistent basis. The AF IMT 220, authorizing BAS, must be signed by the member’s com-
       mander (see paragraph 6.9 and 6.10, AFMAN 65-116, V2), and sent to the installation commander
       (or support group commander responsible for the dining facility) for approval to receive type "S"
       BAS without meal deductions. A member, grade E6 or below, who has authority to reside off base
       can be authorized BAS by the member’s commander without requiring installation/support group
       commander approval.
   25.2.2. Meal Collections: Effective 1 January 2002, a DN is used to collect discounted meal charges
   instead of requiring a DS03 on a monthly basis (see Figure 25.5. for DN transaction format). The DN
   transaction is used for those members on BAS who eat in the dinning facility and do not pay for meals
   at point of sale. For more on the DN transaction, see paragraph 25.8. Certain assignments may
   require collecting payment from the member’s account for meals the U.S. government furnishes (i.e.,
   essential station messing (ESM), essential unit messing (EUM, field duty, sea duty, or group travel).
   In these situations, payment shall be collected at the discounted meal rate and collections shall be
   made whether the meals are eaten or not. During the first and last day of this type of assignment, the
   member’s charge shall be 25 percent of the daily rate. However, where a member transitions from one
   mandatory collection status to another, i.e., when a member goes from an ESM status directly to field
   duty, the 25 percent charge for the first and last day of assignment shall not apply.
382                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      25.2.3. Refunding Missed Meals: A member on ESM who misses meals due to work schedule con-
      flicts is entitled to a refund for missed meals. A PI03 is used to refund meal collections to members
      who miss any meals (due to official reasons and providing commander’s approval has been acquired)
      that have already collected via a DN transaction (see Figure 25.6. for PI transaction format). Use DD
      Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence – Certification, as the source document for missed
      meals (see Figure 25.2.). For more on the PI transaction, see paragraph 25.9.
      25.2.4. PCS Status: When an enlisted member goes PCS, BAS will continue to be paid and daily
      meal charges will not be collected. The PCS departure transaction (SH03) stops meal collections on
      the day prior to departure. Conversely, when an enlisted member arrives on station via PCS (SG03),
      process a DN01 to start meal collections on the day of arrival if ESM is applicable at the new PDS.
      25.2.5. Regular TDY Status: Process a DN02 to stop meal collections when a member’s regular TDY
      status starts and a DN01 when the member returns to the PDS.
      25.2.6. Regular TDY Status: Process a DN02 to stop meal collections when a member’s regular TDY
      status starts and a DN01 when the member returns to the PDS.
      25.2.7. Authority to mess separately cannot be granted retroactively. However, a claim is authorized
      if authority was previously granted. Reasons for such a claim may include lost, damaged, or lack of
      access to, AF Form 220. All claims require completion of Section II, block 4, of the 220, ensuring a
      “verbal order of the Commanding Officer” (VOCO) date is entered. The VOCO date is the date the
      entitlement was originally authorized.
         25.2.7.1. If the claim is within 90 days of the effective date and the original approving authority,
         usually the Unit Commander, remains unchanged, the AF Form 220 is prepared and approved/
         signed by the Unit Commander.
         25.2.7.2. If the claim extends beyond a period of 90 days, or if the original approving authority
         has changed, the AF Form 220 is prepared and must be approved/signed by either the Base or
         Wing Commander, Group Commander, Deputy, or Deputy Commander for Resource Manage-
         ment (DCR) for bases under tri-deputy structure.
      25.2.8. Pipeline. Members in pipeline status are not entitled to BAS without deducting meal charges
      but, since their records are coded as PCS status (ADSN 9999), the DN will not process. Waiting until
      these members arrive at their first permanent duty station to process the DN01, retroactive to the date
      of departure from Lackland, imposes a financial burden on them. The finance office at each training
      location must process an SG03 to gain the member which will allow the DN to process and give the
      member access to myPay during his/her time at that location. Finance must review the member’s enti-
      tlements (i.e.BAH, if applicable), to ensure they are not incorrectly impacted by the SG.

25.3. Review of BAS. Verification of BAS authorizations must be performed annually. This verification,
as determined by the unit, must be within, and no later than, 12 months of the last verification. For veri-
fication purposes, the FSO provides unit commanders with a listing, identifying members who are having
meal charges systematically collected from their pay. DMO is used to prepare the listing, using the fol-
lowing instructions:
      25.3.1. From DMO, select file, open accounts
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                 383


   25.3.2. In the open accounts dialog box, select your servicing station via the drop down selection box.
   Ensure the radio button in the filter section labeled ‘include all’ is selected. Click on the ok button
   once the selections are made.
   25.3.3. Click on the tab labeled ‘queries’ at the bottom of the dialog box.
   25.3.4. Select the query labeled ‘meal collections’ and click on the ‘view report’ button.
   25.3.5. The meal collection report is displayed. You now have the option of printing it or saving it to
   a file. After the verification list is created, send it to the unit. The FSO is not required to retain a copy
   of this listing since the unit commander is the OPR for BAS and meal deduction authorization. See
   AFMAN 65-116, V2, chapter 6.

25.4. Substantiating Documents:
   25.4.1. Prepared outside the FSO. (See AFMAN 65-116, V2, chapter 6.):
       25.4.1.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order.
       25.4.1.2. AF IMT 220, Request, Authorization, and Pay Order Basic Allowance for Subsistence
       (BAS).
       25.4.1.3. DD Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence Certification.
       25.4.1.4. DELETED.
   25.4.2. PCS Travel Voucher.
   25.4.3. Accession Orders, College Senior Engineering Program (CSEP). If member's orders state that
   member is entitled to BAS, it can be started using the orders as source document.
   25.4.4. PCS Orders, Airman Education and Commissioning Program (AECP). If member's orders
   state that member is entitled to BAS, it can be started using the orders as source document.
   25.4.5. TDY orders and paid travel vouchers.

25.5. FSO Actions: FSO prepares and submits input for all BAS transactions, based on substantiating
documents received from the member's unit and the travel section. FID 40 is used to pay BAS. The trans-
action formats are contained in Figure 25.3. and Figure 25.4.
   25.5.1. Regular BAS (FID 40):
       25.5.1.1. Start (01): Initiates entitlement payment and creates an open “40” entry on the MMPA.
       Must use BAS types of O or S.
       25.5.1.2. Stop (02): Stops entitlement and closes an open 40 entry on the MMPA. The stop date
       must be equal to or greater than 1 January 2002.
       25.5.1.3. Report (03): Pays BAS for a specified period of time and must contain inclusive dates.
       25.5.1.4. Change (04): Changes the type of BAS being paid and can be used instead of a 4001 to
       start BAS entitlement. The start date must be equal to or greater than 1 January 2002.
       25.5.1.5. Correct (05): Corrects any previous BAS action, which has already been processed on
       the member’s record.
384                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         25.5.1.6. Cancel (06): Cancels the open 40 entry on the MMPA. Must contain the same start or
         stop dates as transaction being canceled, zero filling the other fields as appropriate.
      25.5.2. PCS Arrival Transactions: When members arrive PCS, and are assigned to single type gov-
      ernment quarters and to ESM, meal collections are initiated using a DN01. If a member is assigned to
      single type government quarters and not assigned to the ESM, do not process a DN transaction. The
      PCS arrival transaction (SG03) to bring the member on station does not automatically initiate daily
      meal collections, consequently, the DN01 must be manually submitted.
      25.5.3. In 1999, a determination of impracticability was made for enlisted controllers in Air Force
      command posts, wing operation centers, and higher headquarter command centers. Enlisted control-
      lers are authorized full BAS without automatically being placed on ESM upon arrival at their perma-
      nent duty station. Commanders will retain the authority to remove a member from ESM if it is
      determined to be in the best interest of the member and the Air Force.

25.6. BAS Affecting Events Requiring Base-Level Input:
      25.6.1. Officers:
         25.6.1.1. When an officer enters one of the categories listed in subparagraphs 25.6.1.1.1.,
         25.6.1.1.2., or 25.6.1.1.3. below, create a CMS (DFAS AC Pay & Allowance box) to
         DFAS-JMCBA/DE, to stop BAS, stating the appropriate reason. When the member is no longer
         assigned to the applicable category, create a CMS (DFAS AC Pay & Allowance box) to
         DFAS-JMCBA/DE requesting the member’s BAS be started. Reference the DoDFMR, Volume
         7A, chapter 25, table 25-1.
             25.6.1.1.1. Officer has no dependent and is training for, attending, or participating in an autho-
             rized international amateur sports event and is subsisted during that period by the sponsoring
             agency, or...
             25.6.1.1.2. Officer is furnished subsistence (in cash or in kind) as the result of a fellowship or
             grant under provisions of AFI 36-2906, or...
             25.6.1.1.3. Officer serving in an active duty status as an intern or resident physician or nurse
             corps officer or candidate at a nonmilitary hospital is furnished meals without charge or meals
             are available without charge (member without dependents only).
         25.6.1.2. Collect for meal charges as in Chapter 49, Table 49.2., when member is hospitalized.
         25.6.1.3. When an officer is in a group travel status, or serving on field duty, sea duty or essential
         unit messing (EUM), charges for available meals are collected in one of the following ways:
             25.6.1.3.1. Cash collection, or...
             25.6.1.3.2. In accordance with instructions in AFMAN 65-116, Vol 1, Chapter 69, or...
             25.6.1.3.3. Process a DN03 to collect meal charges for the time serving on field duty, sea duty,
             essential unit messing (EUM) or while in group travel status.
             25.6.1.3.4. Other. If an officer is confined as a result of a court-martial and not sentenced to a
             total forfeiture of pay and allowances, and the officer did not pay for meals, collection for
             meals will be made at the BAS rate by DFAS-JMCBC/DE, based on the DD Form 114 from
             the corrections facility. The appropriation reimbursed for this collection is 57(*)3500 32(*)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               385


           561.01 525725. (See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, table 25-1, rule 12, and AFMAN 65-116, V2,
           chapter 6.) NOTE: Replace * in the appropriation with the single digit designator for the cur-
           rent fiscal year.
   25.6.2. Enlisted:
       25.6.2.1. Start BAS when member finishes BMT, effective on the date of graduation.
       25.6.2.2. Stop BAS when member: Is removed from BAS by commander or FSO.

25.7. BAS Affecting Events Not Requiring Base-Level Input. Event and status transactions that auto-
matically start, stop, and suspend BAS are described below. Do not submit BAS input transactions for
these event and status changes:
   25.7.1. Officer:
       25.7.1.1. Start BAS. Process accession or separation-with-immediate reentry message when
       commissioned from enlisted status. See Chapter 39 for information on processing allowances for
       accessions.
       25.7.1.2. Stop BAS. Process separation message.
       25.7.1.3. Suspend and Restart BAS. Suspend by processing excess leave, AWOL, or desertion
       transactions. Restart by processing transaction returning officer to a pay status.
   25.7.2. Enlisted Member:
       25.7.2.1. Start BAS. Process accession on date of graduation from basic training.
       25.7.2.2. Stop BAS. Process final separation message.
       25.7.2.3. Suspend and Restart BAS. Suspend by processing: AWOL or deserter message, and
       sometimes confinement transaction. Restart with message returning member to a status for which
       BAS is payable.
   25.7.3. BAS Rate Change. DFAS-DE adjusts accounts of all members receiving BAS when an Office
   of Secretary of Defense (OSD) rate change is received.

25.8. Collection of Meal Charges (FID DN): To collect meal charges, input a DN transaction (see Fig-
ure 25.5. for DN transaction format). Meals will be collected at a set rate per day. Certain assignments
may require collecting payment from the member’s account for meals the U.S. Government furnishes
(i.e., essential station messing (ESM), essential unit messing (EUM), field duty, sea duty, or group travel).
In these situations, payment shall be collected at the discounted meal rate and collections shall be made
whether the meals are eaten or not. Performing duty at an ashore installation (not field duty or EUM,
group travel or attending APMT) and not assigned to ESM are entitled to BAS and may use the appropri-
ated fund (APF) dining facility on a pay as you go basis at the standard meal rate. When there is a discon-
nected period of meal collections (a period is not continuous or more than one period is included), the first
and last days of the period will be collected at 25 percent of the regular daily rate. NOTE: where a mem-
ber transitions from one mandatory collection status to another, i.e. going from ESM status directly to
field duty, the 25 percent charge for the first and last day of the assignment does not apply.
   25.8.1. When a member goes on leave and has an open DN on the record, the system suspends the
   meal charges for the leave period. The 25 percent rule does not apply to the last day before the leave
386                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      starts, nor to the first day after the leave ends. The system considers any other status change to create
      a break in the DN. Example: a member enters an AWOL status on January 12, 2002 and returns to a
      duty status on January 15. The system stops the DN effective January 11, collecting for meals for that
      day at 25 percent of the daily rate. Meal collections will not resume until a DN01 is submitted. The
      first day of a new start period will collect at 25 percent.
      25.8.2. The system will not accept a DN01 (start) or a DN03 (report) if leave was taken throughout
      the period for which meal collections are required. To correctly collect meals under these circum-
      stances, cancel the leave, start the DN01 or input the DN03 (report), and then re-input the leave.
      These transactions should all be in the same update. The system will suspend collection for the leave
      period and the end result will be the correct collection amount for meal charges.
         25.8.2.1. Start (01). Creates a variable open DN entry. There can only be one open DN entry on
         the MMPA. The deduction amount is based on the “deduction type” input on the input screen.
         25.8.2.2. Stop (02). Closes an open DN entry, stops the meal charge collection, and moves the
         closed DN to history.
         25.8.2.3. Report (03). Collects meal charges for the specified period and creates a history DN
         entry.
         25.8.2.4. Correct (05). Reimburses and refunds all previous deductions taken during the period
         input. May be for a variable open or history entry. Processes in any status except “V”. If there are
         any PI entries with dates within the start and stop date of the DN entry, the PI entries must also be
         canceled.
         25.8.2.5. Cancel (06). Cancels the open or closed entry and creates a new open or closed entry.
         The cancel process must take place prior to the report or start process. May be used for an open or
         history DN entry.
      25.8.3. Retro Collection of Meal Charges. For those members whose meal charges should have been
      withheld from their pay, but were not, meal charges must be collected retroactively. There are three
      options for accomplishing these retroactive collections:
         25.8.3.1. Submit a DN01 with the retro date. This will create a sizeable meal charge for the
         period of uncharged days. Please note, once the DN01 is submitted, the system will collect the
         whole DN amount all at once from the member’s pay.
         25.8.3.2. Submit a DN03 for each month (i.e. DN03 for 1-31 Jan, 1-28 Feb, etc.). This process
         will require multiple input by your office and manual tracking of the amount collected/amount
         due, but will prevent the large collection from one paycheck and provide a better audit trail.
         25.8.3.3. Calculate the actual meal charge amount and submit a DS01 for the meal charge, prorat-
         ing the collection amount, citing appropriation 57*3500 32* 561.08 525725. The problem with
         this option is that the system does not recognize the collection as a replacement for the DN and, if
         there was a later requirement to refund some part of the collected amount, the PI03 would not pro-
         cess because there would be no DN on the record. See paragraph 25.2.8. above for action to take
         when the duty location is a pipeline training location.

25.9. Missed Meals Refunds (FID PI): PI entries will be posted as history entries on the record. There
may be multiple PI entries for any one DN entry (see Figure 25.6. for PI transaction format).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             387


   25.9.1. Report (03). Creates a history PI entry. NOTE: There must be a corresponding DN entry on
   the MMPA.
   25.9.2. Correct (05). Cancels an existing PI entry and creates a new closed entry as appropriate.
   25.9.3. Cancel (06). Cancels a corresponding PI entry.

25.10. Family Subsistence Supplemental Allowance (FSSA): Effective 1 May 2001, Air Force mem-
bers may apply for FSSA, a non-taxable supplemental subsistence allowance. Once the member com-
pletes the application it must go to the Commander (or a Commander on G-Series orders with command
responsibility) for approval. The Commander’s support staff is responsible for the FSSA computation
prior to the Commander’s approval of the allowance.
   25.10.1. Source Document. The DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, that is received from the Com-
   mander’s Support Staff and certified by the Commander, is the source document to pay FSSA. Sub-
   mit the DD Form 114, with your quarterly source document submissions, to the DFRC. Ensure you
   keep the FSO-retained copy.
   25.10.2. Initiating Payment. To start (or change) FSSA payments, send an email with a copy of the
   DD Form 2857, DD Form 114, and an EXCEL spreadsheet (with the information listed in paragraph
   25.10.3. below), to AF/A1SF via the MAJCOM. Once the FSSA request has been validated and
   approved, AF/A1SF will contact DFAS-JM/DE to initiate payment.
       25.10.2.1. DELETED.
       25.10.2.2. DELETED
       25.10.2.3. DELETED
       25.10.2.4. DELETED
   25.10.3. EXCEL spreadsheet data. Include the following data on the EXCEL spreadsheet:
       25.10.3.1. Member’s full name
       25.10.3.2. Member’s social security number (SSN)
       25.10.3.3. Effective date (of start, stop or change)
       25.10.3.4. Dollar amount of FSSA payable to member in whole dollars
       25.10.3.5. Number in household
       25.10.3.6. Member’s grade
       25.10.3.7. FSSA household location (CONUS/OCONUS)
   25.10.4. Stopping FSSA. To stop FSSA base level FSOs need to notify DFAS-DE via CMS case; be
   sure to include the stop date in the case.
   25.10.5. Additional information. DFAS-JM/DE will process the allowance start, for members who
   have been identified by the 15th of the month, in time to have the allowance included in the member’s
   end of month pay. Submissions received after the 15th will be reflected in the next month’s EOM pay.
   FSSA will be reflected on the MMPA as an "09" entry, FID 40. Spreadsheets must be compiled and
   sent on a monthly basis to arrive before the 15th to minimize the email traffic at central site.
388                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      25.10.6. Members arriving PCS. When a member arrives PCS, the gaining FSO is responsible for
      notifying DFAS-DE, via CMS, of the date arrived on station. DFAS-DE will stop the FSSA effective
      the day prior to the date of arrival at the new station. The member may reapply/re-certify at the new
      duty station through the same process discussed in subparagraph 25.10.2. and 25.10.3. above.
      25.10.7. Promotions. When a promotion is processed on a member who is receiving FSSA,
      DFAS-DE will stop the allowance effective the day prior to the effective date of the promotion. If the
      member questions why the allowance stopped, send him/her to the commander for information con-
      cerning reapplication.
      25.10.8. Re-certification. Re-certification follows the same procedures as initial application. Mem-
      bers must re-certify under the following circumstances (if member participates in other income assis-
      tance programs, notification of those agencies is necessary as well):
         25.10.8.1. Annually. Members are required to re-certify their FSSA entitlement during the period
         from the 30 days prior to 1 February to 30 days after 1 February.
         25.10.8.2. Any change to household. An increase or decrease to household size may affect
         amount of entitlement.
         25.10.8.3. When monthly income increases by $100 or more, as compared to the current certified
         amount. Increases in income less than $100 per month will not affect entitlement.
         25.10.8.4. When promoted, eligibility for the allowance terminates. See subparagraph 25.10.7.
         above. Members must certify to restart entitlement to FSSA.
         25.10.8.5. When a member goes PCS, FSSA will terminate the day prior to the date member offi-
         cially checks into the new duty station. See subparagraph 25.10.5. above.
      25.10.9. Overpayments. Member is accountable for FSSA overpayments. Overpayments are
      recouped directly from military pay. These procedures are to remain in place until DJMS-AC is
      changed to allow processing of the entitlement by the FSO.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              389


Figure 25.1. AF IMT 220, 19920701, Request Authorization and Pay Order BAS - Separate
Rations.
390                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 25.2. DD Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence Certification
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     391


Figure 25.3. Formats to Report, Correct or Cancel Prorated Supplemental BAS.


 CHARACTER                                DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       03903


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS TO START; MUST BE
                EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE


     26-31      DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS TO STOP; MUST BE
                EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE; MUST BE EQUAL TO
                OR GREATER THAN START DATE; BOTH START DATE AND STOP
                DATE MUST BE IN THE SAME CALENDAR MONTH


     32-34      FILLER


     35-36      BREAKFASTS-MISSED: NUMBER OF BREAKFASTS MISSED--00
                THRU 31; CANNOT BE GREATER THAN THE STOP DATE MINUS
                THE START DATE PLUS ONE DAY


     37-38      DINNERS-MISSED: NUMBER OF DINNERS MISSED--00 THRU 31;
                CANNOT BE GREATER THAN THE STOP DATE MINUS THE START
                DATE PLUS ONE DAY


     39-40      SUPPERS-MISSED: NUMBER OF SUPPERS MISSED--00 THRU 31;
                CANNOT BE GREATER THAN THE STOP DATE MINUS THE START
                DATE PLUS ONE DAY


     41-67      FILLER


      1-5       03905


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
392                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START; MUST
              BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE


      26-31   DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP; MUST BE
              EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE; MUST BE EQUAL TO
              OR GREATER THAN START DATE; BOTH START DATE AND STOP
              DATE MUST BE IN THE SAME CALENDAR MONTH


      32-34   FILLER


      35-36   BREAKFASTS-MISSED: NUMBER OF BREAKFASTS MISSED--00
              THRU 31; CANNOT BE GREATER THAN STOP DATE MINUS
              START DATE PLUS ONE DAY


      37-38   DINNERS-MISSED: NUMBER OF DINNERS MISSED--00 THRU 31;
              CANNOT BE GREATER THAN STOP DATE MINUS START DATE
              PLUS ONE DAY


      39-40   SUPPERS-MISSED: NUMBER OF SUPPERS MISSED--00 THRU 31;
              CANNOT BE GREATER THAN STOP DATE MINUS START DATE
              PLUS ONE DAY

      41-55   FILLER


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD THAT WAS IN TRANSACTION
              BEING CORRECTED; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN
              CURRENT DATE



      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD THAT WAS IN TRANSACTION
              BEING CORRECTED; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN
              CURRENT DATE; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN PRIOR
              DATE START; BOTH PRIOR START DATE AND PRIOR STOP DATE
              MUST BE IN THE SAME CALENDAR MONTH
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          393


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     1-5     03906


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE START: MUST BE VALID “YYMMDD”; MUST BE EQUAL TO
             OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE


    26-31    DATE STOP: MUST BE VALID YYMMDD, MUST BE EQUAL TO OR
             LESS THAN CURRENT DATE; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER
             THAN START DATE


    32-67    FILLER
394                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 25.4. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, Change, Correct or Cancel BAS.


CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       1-5     04001


      6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25    EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START;
               MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE AND
               EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN 020101.


       32      SUBSISTENCE-ALLOWANCE-TYPE CODE:
               S—STANDARD
               O—OFFICER BASE


      33-67    FILLER



       1-5     04002


      6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

      15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25    EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD (LAST DAY) THROUGH WHICH
               ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS
               THAN CURRENT DATE AND EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN
               020101.


      26-67    FILLER


       1-5     04003
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            395


CHARACTER                    DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   6-14   SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS TO START; MUST BE
            EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE.


    26-31   DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS TO STOP; MUST BE
            EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE AND EQUAL TO OR
            GREATER THAN START DATE.


     32     SUBSISTENCE-ALLOWANCE-TYPE CODE:
            O—OFFICER BAS
            S—STANDARD
            (NOTE: IF EQUAL TO ‘O’ OR ‘S’ START DATE MUST BE EQUAL
            TO OR GREATER THAN 020101; FOR PRIOR TO 020101 USE ‘B’,
            ‘C’, ‘H’, ‘K’ OR ‘P’)


     33     QUARTER-DAY-START CODE; SYSTEMS GENERATED


     34     QUARTER-DAY-STOP CODE; SYSTEMS GENERATED


     1-5    04004


    6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS TO CHANGE; MUST
            BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE AND EQUAL TO
            OR GREATER THAN 020101.


    26-31   FILLER


     32     SUBSISTENCE-ALLOWANCE-TYPE CODE:
396                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
              S—STANDARD


       1-5    04005


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD
              START OR EQUAL ZEROS; IF VALID DATE MUST BE EQUAL TO
              OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE.


      26-31   DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP
              OR EQUAL ZEROS; IF VALID DATE MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS
              THAN CURRENT DATE; OR EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN
              START DATE.


       32     SUBSISTENCE-ALLOWANCE-TYPE CODE:
              O—OFFICER BAS
              S—STANDARD
              (NOTE: IF EQUAL TO ‘O’ OR ‘S’ START DATE MUST BE EQUAL TO
              OR GREATER THAN 020101; FOR PRIOR TO 020101 USE ‘B’, ‘C’,
              ‘H’, ‘K’ OR ‘P’)

       33     QUARTER-DAY-START CODE; SYSTEMS GENERATED


       34     QUARTER-DAY-STOP CODE; SYSTEMS GENERATED


      35-55   FILLER


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED OR EQUALS ZEROS; IF VALID DATE, MUST BE
              EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE; IF START DATE
              EQUALS VALID DATE MUST EQUAL VALID DATE; IF START
              DATE EQUALS ZEROES MUST EQUAL ZEROES.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                        397


CHARACTER                     DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   62-67  PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
          CORRECTED OR EQUALS ZEROS; IF VALID DATE, MUST BE
          EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE AND MUST BE
          EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN PRIOR START DATE; IF STOP
          DATE EQUALS VALID DATE MUST EQUAL VALID DATE; IF STOP
          DATE EQUALS ZEROES MUST EQUAL ZEROES.


     1-5    04006


    6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25   DATE-START: SAME YYMMDD AS IN THE TRANSACTION BEING
            CANCELED; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT
            DATE.


    26-31   DATE-STOP: SAME YYMMDD AS IN THE TRANSACTION BEING
            CANCELED OR EQUALS ZEROS; IF VALID DATE, MUST BE
            EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT DATE AND EQUAL TO OR
            GREATER THAN START DATE.
398                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 25.5. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, Correct or Cancel Meal Collections.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0DN01


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME


      20-25      DEDUCTION START DATE (YYMMDD)
                 (MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT CALENDAR
                 DATE)


      26-31      FILLER


       32        DEDUCTION TYPE (MUST BE 1 FOR DISCOUNT RATE OR 2 FOR
                 STANDARD RATE)


      33-67      FILLER


      68-80      COMMON DATA


       1-5       0DN02

      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME


      20-25      FILLER


      26-31      STOP DATE (YYMMDD)
                 (MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT MONTH PLUS
                 ONE MONTH)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          399


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   32-67  FILLER


    68-80    COMMON DATA


     1-5     0DN03


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME


    20-25    START DATE (YYMMDD)
             (MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT MONTH
             PLUS ONE MONTH)


    26-31    STOP DATE (YYMMDD)
             (MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT MONTH
             PLUS ONE MONTH; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN
             START DATE)


     32      DEDUCTION TYPE (MUST BE 1 FOR DISCOUNT RATE OR 2 FOR
             STANDARD RATE)


    33-67    FILLER

    68-80    COMMON DATA


     1-5     0DN05


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME
400                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                       DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   20-25  CORRECTED START DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE (YYMMDD)
          OR ZEROS; IF VALID DATE MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN
          THE CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH).


      26-31   CORRECTED STOP DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE (YYMMDD) OR
              ZEROS; IF VALID DATE MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN THE
              CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR
              GREATER THAN START DATE; MUST BE VALID DATE IF START
              DATE EQUALS ZERO).


       32     DEDUCTION TYPE (MUST BE 1 FOR DISCOUNT RATE OR 2 FOR
              STANDARD RATE)


      33-44   FILLER


      45-50   ORIGINAL START DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE EQUAL TO OR
              LESS THAN CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH; MUST BE
              VALID DATE IF START DATE EQUALS ZEROES).


      51-56   ORIGINAL STOP DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE (YYMMDD) OR
              ZEROES; IF VALID DATE MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN
              CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH; MUST BE VALID DATE IF
              CORRECTED STOP DATE EQUALS A VALID DATE; MUST BE
              ZEROES IF CORRECTED STOP DATE EQUALS ZEROES; MUST BE
              GREATER THAN ORIGINAL START DATE IF VALID DATE AND
              ORIGINAL START DATE IS VALID).


      57-67   FILLER


      68-80   COMMON DATA


       1-5    0DN06


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                      401


CHARACTER                     DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   20-25  START DATE (YYMMDD)
          (MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT MONTH
          PLUS ONE MONTH)


    26-31    STOP DATE
             (MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT MONTH
             PLUS ONE MONTH)


    32-67    FILLER


    68-80    COMMON DATA
402                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 25.6. Formats to Report, Correct or Cancel Missed Meal Refunds.


CHARACTER                                DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       1-5     0PI03


      6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME


      20-25    START DATE (MUST BE VALID “YYMMDD”; MUST BE EQUAL TO
               OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH).


      26-31    STOP DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE “YYMMDD”; MUST BE
               EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN START DATE).


      32-34    FILLER


      35-36    MISSED BREAKFAST (MUST BE ALL SPACES OR ALL NUMERIC)


      37-38    MISSED DINNERS (MUST BE ALL SPACES OR ALL NUMERIC)


      39-40    MISSED SUPPERS (MUST BE ALL SPACES OR ALL NUMERIC)

      41-67    FILLER


      68-80    COMMON DATA


       1-5     0PI05


      6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                         403


CHARACTER                      DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   20-25  START DATE (MUST BE VALID “YYMMDD”; MUST BE EQUAL TO
          OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH)


    26-31   STOP DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE “YYMMDD”; MUST BE
            EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE
            MONTH; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN START DATE).


    32-34   FILLER


    35-36   CORRECTED MISSED BREAKFAST (MUST BE ALL SPACES OR
            ALL NUMERIC)


    37-38   CORRECTED MISSED DINNERS (MUST BE ALL SPACES OR ALL
            NUMERIC)


    39-40   CORRECTED MISSED SUPPERS (MUST BE ALL SPACES OR ALL
            NUMERIC)


    41-55   FILLER


    56-61   PRIOR START DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE “YYMMDD” EQUAL
            TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH).


    62-67   PRIOR STOP DATE (MUSTE BE VALID DATE “YYMMDD” EQUAL
            TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH AND
            MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN PRIOR START DATE).


    68-80   COMMON DATA


     1-5    0PI06


    6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBERS LAST NAME
404                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                      DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   20-25  START DATE (MUST BE VALID “YYMMDD”; MUST BE EQUAL TO
          OR LESS THAN THE CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE MONTH).



      26-31   STOP DATE (MUST BE VALID DATE “YYMMDD”; MUST BE
              EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN CURRENT MONTH PLUS ONE
              MONTH; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN START DATE).


      32-67   FILLER


      68-80   COMMON DATA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             405


                                              Chapter 26

                           BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING (BAH)

26.1. Introduction. The Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR), defines the various types of BAH pay-
able to a member. In general, BAH provides members a monthly allowance for housing. BAH consists
of Partial BAH, BAH-I, BAH-Transit (BAH-T), BAH-Difference (BAH-DIFF), BAH-RC, Overseas
Housing Allowance (OHA), Family Separation Housing-Overseas (FSH-O), and FSH-B.
   26.1.1. Partial BAH formerly called Partial BAQ.
   26.1.2. BAH-I consists of the former allowances known as BAQ and VHA.
   26.1.3. BAH-T was established on January 1, 2006.
   26.1.4. BAH-DIFF formerly called BAQ-DIFF.
   26.1.5. OHA remained unchanged (Chapter 30).
   26.1.6. FSH-O consists of the former allowance Dual OHA and FSA-Type I (paragraph 26.28.).
   26.1.7. FSH-B consists of the former allowances Dual VHA and FSA-Type I (paragraph 26.28.).
   26.1.8. BAH-RC was established on January 6, 2006.
   26.1.9. BAH-II was eliminated on January 1, 2006. BAH-II was removed from the OHA computa-
   tion on October 1, 2005.

26.2. Entitlement Overview. All BAH types are intended to offset or defray actual housing (mortgage or
rental) costs; they are not intended to cover 100% of these costs. See the JFTR, Chapter 10, for actual
entitlement provisions and conditions, unless otherwise indicated within this paragraph.
   26.2.1. Partial BAH. Partial BAH is payable to members without dependents who reside in sin-
   gle-type government quarters. Partial BAH cannot be paid with any other BAH entitlement. Partial
   BAH rates are found in the Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) Table 019. Partial BAH is
   processed using Format Identifier (FID) 35.
   26.2.2. BAH-I. BAH-I is designed to offset a portion of the housing expenses incurred by, and as a
   result of, members and/or their dependents living in non-government quarters within the United States
   (U.S.), to include Hawaii and Alaska.
       26.2.2.1. BAH-I rates are based upon grade, dependency status (with or without dependent) and
       each location’s adequate housing costs. These rates are developed from housing data collected
       annually from the uniformed services under the auspices of Per Diem, Travel and Transportation
       Allowance Committee (PDTATAC). The results of the survey determine the rates payable for spe-
       cific geographic areas. To determine the rates for each duty station, data is aggregated into a col-
       lection of ZIP codes or Military Housing Areas (MHA). Each grade and dependency status within
       a MHA is assigned a BAH-I rate. If a member feels the BAH-I rate for a particular area is insuf-
       ficient to adequately defray the housing costs (i.e. increase in housing costs), the following steps
       may be taken for re-consideration by the PDTATAC;
           26.2.2.1.1. Member informs unit commander.
406                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             26.2.2.1.2. Unit commander prepares a letter/memorandum to the local Mission Support or
             Civil Engineering Commander requesting reconsideration.
             26.2.2.1.3. The letter is forwarded from the Mission Support or Civil Engineering Com-
             mander to the local FSO, from the FSO to the appropriate major command (MAJCOM), and
             from the MAJCOM to AF/A1SF, 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040. The
             MAJCOM should also send an informational copy to AF/A7CAH, 1260 Air Force Pentagon,
             Washington DC 20330-1260 or AFILEH.Workflow@pentagon.af.mil.
         26.2.2.2. BAH-I rates are found in DJMS Table 59; DJMS Table 61 must be used first to acquire
         the MHA Index number for a particular location.
         26.2.2.3. The BAH-I rate payable is typically based upon the location of the member’s Permanent
         Duty Station (PDS). For a member with dependents, the rate payable for dependents may be
         based on the MHA where the dependents reside; see the JFTR, Chapter 10, for complete details.
         BAH-I is processed using FIDs 35 and 68.
      26.2.3. BAH-T. BAH-T is designed to offset a portion of the housing expenses incurred by, and as a
      result of, members and/or their dependents living in non-government quarters. BAH-T rates are based
      upon grade and dependency status; they do not include adjustments for local housing costs, and are
      found in DJMS Tables 007 (without-dependent rate) and 008 (with-dependent rate). BAH-T is pro-
      cessed using FID 35. BAH-T is paid to members in a travel status on a Permanent Change of Station
      (PCS) when:
         26.2.3.1. The member’s losing PDS is located outside the continental United States (OCONUS).
         26.2.3.2. The member is in the accession pipeline, which includes ROTC, USAF Academy grad-
         uates, and OCS, and travel is between Initial Entry Training (IET) sites to the first PDS.
      26.2.4. BAH-DIFF. BAH-DIFF is designed for members who live in unaccompanied personnel
      housing (UPH) (barracks or dormitories), pay child support and have no other qualifying depen-
      dent(s). Members are entitled to receive BAH-DIFF as long as the support amount paid is at least the
      amount of the BAH-DIFF rate payable for the member’s grade. The member’s BAH-DIFF will auto-
      matically stop if, due to a mass rate change or the member’s promotion, the support amount paid falls
      below the BAH-DIFF rate. BAH-DIFF rates are found in DJMS Table 028. BAH-DIFF cannot be
      paid in conjunction with Partial BAH, BAH-I or other with-dependent rate entitlements. BAH-DIFF
      is processed using FID 36.
      26.2.5. OHA. OHA is designed to offset a portion of the housing expenses incurred by, and as a result
      of, members and/or their dependents living in non-government quarters outside the U.S. OHA rates
      are established by the PDTATAC, and are based upon the member’s grade, dependency status, hous-
      ing expenses and the location’s adequate housing costs. See the Joint Federal Travel Regulation
      (JFTR), Chapter 9 and appendix K for actual entitlement provisions, conditions and computation
      steps. OHA is processed using FIDs 35 and 43.
      26.2.6. FSH-O. FSH-O is designed to offset a portion of the housing expenses incurred by, and as a
      result of, a member living in non-government quarters outside the U.S. and geographically separated
      from their dependents. Government quarters must be unavailable, dependent travel must not be
      authorized at government expense to either the PDS or a nearby location, and the dependent(s) must
      not live at or in the vicinity of the PDS. See the JFTR, U10414 and Appendix K for actual entitlement
      provisions, conditions, and computation steps. FSH-O rates are based upon the member’s grade,
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         407


   dependency status, housing expenses and the location’s adequate housing costs. FSH-O rates can be
   found in DJMS Table 007. FSH is processed using FID 45.
   26.2.7. FSH-B. FSH-B is designed to offset a portion of the housing expenses incurred by, and as a
   result of, a member with dependents living in non-government quarters within the U.S. and geograph-
   ically separated from dependents. Government quarters must be unavailable, dependent travel must
   not be authorized at government expense to either the PDS or a nearby location, and the dependent(s)
   must not live at or in the vicinity of the PDS. FSH-B rates are based upon grade, dependency status
   and each location’s adequate housing costs. See the JFTR, U10414, for actual entitlement provisions
   and conditions. FSH-B rates are equivalent to the BAH-I without-dependent rates for the same loca-
   tion. FSH-B rates are found in DJMS Table 59; DJMS Table 61 must be used first to acquire MHA
   Index number for a particular location. FSH-B is processed using FID 67.
   26.2.8. BAH-RC. BAH-RC is designed to offset a portion of the housing expenses incurred by, and
   as a result of, reserve component members and/or their dependents living in non-government quarters.
   BAH-RC is authorized when no other housing allowance (i.e. BAH, OHA) is authorized (paragraph
   26-27). BAH-RC rates are based upon grade and dependency status; they do not include adjustments
   for local housing costs, and are found in DJMS Tables 007 (without-dependent rate) and 008
   (with-dependent rate). BAH-RC is processed using FID 35.
   26.2.9. Advanced Payment of BAH (paragraph 26.29.). An advance payment may be paid at any
   time during a member’s assignment at a PDS. A member may receive an advance for dependent hous-
   ing expenses and/or for his/her own housing expenses at an unaccompanied location. An advance
   payment of BAH is payable upon request of a member when approved by the member’s unit com-
   mander or housing officer. (Members in the grade 05 or above may approve their own requests.). The
   advance may be paid to an eligible member to meet extraordinary expenses in obtaining or occupying
   other than government quarters.

26.3. Responsibility Overview. Additional responsibility guidance can be found in AFMAN 65-116 Vol
2, Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) Unit Procedures Excluding FSO.
   26.3.1. Defense Finance and Accounting Service-Denver Center (DFAS-DE) responsibilities include:
      26.3.1.1. DFAS-JMOB/DE:
          26.3.1.1.1. Relationship or dependency determination (paragraph 26.7.)
          26.3.1.1.2. Secondary dependent BAH dependency re-determination (paragraph 26.8.)
      26.3.1.2. DFAS-JMPBC/DE
          26.3.1.2.1. Dependency discrepancy reconciliation (paragraph 26.12.)
   26.3.2. MAJCOM responsibilities include:
      26.3.2.1. Establishment of procedures for command unique programs
      26.3.2.2. Re-consideration of BAH-I rates (paragraph 26.2.2.1.)
      26.3.2.3. Verification of family-type quarters assignments (paragraph 26.10.)
      26.3.2.4. Verification of single-type quarters assignments (paragraph 26.11.)
      26.3.2.5. Dependency discrepancy reconciliation (paragraph 26.12.)
408                                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      26.3.3. Financial Services Office (FSO) responsibilities include:
         26.3.3.1. Re-consideration of BAH-I rates (paragraph 26.2.2.1.)
         26.3.3.2. Substantiating document preparation/certification (paragraph 26.5.)
         26.3.3.3. Dependency statements and supporting documents (paragraph 26.6.)
         26.3.3.4. Relationship or dependency determination (paragraph 26.7.)
         26.3.3.5. Secondary dependent BAH dependency re-determination (paragraph 26.8.)
         26.3.3.6. BAH re-certification (paragraph 26.9.)
         26.3.3.7. Verification of family-type quarters assignments (paragraph 26.10.)
         26.3.3.8. Verification of single-type quarters assignments (paragraph 26.11.)
         26.3.3.9. Dependency discrepancy reconciliation (paragraph 26.12.)
         26.3.3.10. Assignment and termination of transient quarters or TLF (paragraph 26.13.)
         26.3.3.11. Additional FSO Requirements (paragraph 26.33.)
      26.3.4. Mission Support or Civil Engineering Commander:
         26.3.4.1. Re-consideration of BAH-I rates (paragraph 26.2.2.1.)
      26.3.5. Housing Management Office (HMO), when the Facility Manager, responsibilities include:
         26.3.5.1. Assignment and termination of government housing
         26.3.5.2. Determination of such quarters adequacy/inadequacy
         26.3.5.3. Establishment of the fair rental value when inadequate housing is assigned
         26.3.5.4. Substantiating document preparation/certification (paragraph 26.5.)
         26.3.5.5. Verification of family-type quarters assignments (paragraph 26.10.)
         26.3.5.6. Verification of single-type quarters assignments (paragraph 26.11.)
      26.3.6. Billeting Office, when the Facility Manager, responsibilities include:
         26.3.6.1. Substantiating document preparation/certification (paragraph 26.5.)
         26.3.6.2. Assignment and termination of transient quarters or Temporary Lodging Facility (TLF)
         (paragraph 26.13.)
      26.3.7. Unit Commander responsibilities include:
         26.3.7.1. Re-consideration of BAH-I rates (paragraph 26.2.2.1.)
         26.3.7.2. Substantiating document preparation/certification (paragraph 26.5.)
         26.3.7.3. Verification of single-type quarters assignments (paragraph 26.11.)
      26.3.8. Member responsibilities include:
         26.3.8.1. Substantiating document preparation (paragraph 26.5.)
         26.3.8.2. Dependency statements and supporting documents (paragraphs 26.6.)
         26.3.8.3. Secondary dependent BAH dependency re-determinations (paragraph 26.8.)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           409


       26.3.8.4. BAH re-certification (paragraph 26.9.)

26.4. Substantiating Documents.
   26.4.1. Partial BAH. Either of the following forms can be used to start or stop Partial BAH:
       26.4.1.1. Air Force (AF) Form 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic
       Allowance for Quarters (BAQ), or Dependency Re-determination (Figure 26.1.).
       26.4.1.2. Department of Defense (DD) Form 114, Military Pay Order.
   26.4.2. BAH-I, BAH-T, and BAH-RC, With or Without-Dependent Rates.
       26.4.2.1. AF Form 594 is used to start, stop or change a member's entitlement.
       26.4.2.2. DD Form 139 (Figure 2.8.) is used to post one-time adjustments; and start, stop or
       change a member’s entitlement in conjunction with DFAS-JMOB/DE dependency determinations.
   26.4.3. BAH-DIFF. AF Form 594 is used to start or stop a member’s entitlement.
   26.4.4. OHA. DD Form 2367, Individual Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) Report (Figure
   30.1.) is used to start, stop or change a member’s entitlement.
   26.4.5. FSH-O/FSH-B.
       26.4.5.1. DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation (Figure 26.2.)
       is used to start or change a member’s entitlement.
       26.4.5.2. DD Form 114 (Figure 26.3.) may be used to stop a member’s entitlement.
   26.4.6. Advanced Payment of BAH. AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment
   of an Advance Housing Allowance to Meet Extraordinary Expenses Incident to PCS Move (Figure
   26.4.).

26.5. Substantiating Document Preparation and Certification Responsibilities. All members must
immediately notify the FSO and MPF of all dependency status changes (marriage, divorce, child support,
death, birth, government quarters assignment/termination, etc.). Failure to support a dependent, on whose
behalf BAH is claimed, will result in non-entitlement to BAH. A member is also not entitled to BAH on
behalf of a dependent whose whereabouts are unknown. A false claim or statement against the United
States Government is punishable by court martial. The penalty for willfully making a false statement or
claim is a maximum of $10,000 or maximum imprisonment of 5 years or both (18 U.S.C. 287). NOTE:
If a member is uncertain about support requirements, the member should seek advise from the local Staff
Judge Advocate. Complete form preparation requirements are outlined in Tables 26.1 and 26.2, and the
AFMAN 65-116 Vol 2, chapter 5, unless otherwise indicated within this paragraph. See paragraph 26.6.
for complete dependency statement and supporting documentation requirements.
   26.5.1. AF Form 594 is prepared by the:
       26.5.1.1. FSO for:
           26.5.1.1.1. All members with dependents not assigned family-type government quarters.
           26.5.1.1.2. Members E-4, with greater than three years of service, or higher grade, and with-
           out dependents who elect not to occupy single-type government quarters.
410                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             26.5.1.1.3. All members who gain or lose a dependent. When a member notifies the FSO that
             he/she has gained or lost a dependent, the FSO is responsible for completion of the 594 and
             DJMS-AC update. If the member is assigned/terminates government quarters as a result of the
             gain or loss of dependent, housing should provide a certified 594 as a result of that action.
             26.5.1.1.4. All members who do not complete a re-certification statement on time.
             26.5.1.1.5. All members upon receipt of a complaint or evidence that indicates that the mem-
             ber is not adequately supporting their dependents.
         26.5.1.2. HMO for:
             26.5.1.2.1. All members upon assignment or termination of government quarters.
             26.5.1.2.2. Members E-4, with less than three years of service, or lower grade, and without
             dependents not assigned single-type government quarters.
             26.5.1.2.3. All members upon change in their fair rental value for assigned inadequate quar-
             ters.
         26.5.1.3. Unit Commander for:
             26.5.1.3.1. All members upon assignment or termination of family-type government quarters
             provided by activities other than an Air Force organization.
             26.5.1.3.2. All members upon assignment or termination of single-type government quarters
             controlled by the unit commander.
         26.5.1.4. The FSO certifies all AF Form 594 applications, except those relationships or depen-
         dency claims that require DFAS-DE determination (paragraph 26.7.). Where local procedures
         allow, HMO approval on the form may constitute adequate authorization without FSO certifica-
         tion.
      26.5.2. DD Form 114 may be prepared by the authorized agency/individual, in place of the AF Form
      594. See Tables 26.1 and 26.2 for specific situations where this form may be substituted. When using
      a DD Form 114, the same signature requirements, as found on the AF Form 594, must be met. See
      Figure 2.1. for additional preparation requirements.
      26.5.3. DD Form 139 is prepared by the:
         26.5.3.1. Dependent Entitlements Branch, DFAS-JMOB/DE, when necessary, upon completion
         of secondary dependent determinations.
         26.5.3.2. Billeting Office for all members who occupy transient quarters in excess of 30 days.
         26.5.3.3. Additional preparation requirements can be found in Figure 2.6. and Figure 2.7.
      26.5.4. DD Form 2367 is prepared by the HMO for all members assigned to a PDS outside the U.S.
      upon termination or non-assignment of government quarters.
      26.5.5. DD Form 1561 is prepared by the member. The FSO completes the certifying officer portion
      of all FSH-O/FSH-B claims. See paragraph 26.28. for additional preparation requirements.
      26.5.6. AF Form 1039 is prepared by the member upon request of an advance or extended repayment
      of a previous advance. See paragraph 26.29. for additional preparation requirements.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               411


26.6. Dependency Statements and Supporting Documents. A completed AF Form 594 must be sub-
mitted with all supporting documents, and a completed dependency statement as applicable, for BAH
entitlement claims. The member and the FSO must ensure Parts A, B, and C of the form are completed,
and the effective date of BAH is included in Section B-8.
   26.6.1. Dependency claim requirements. These requirements must be met for all dependency claims.
       26.6.1.1. Supporting documents establishing relationship and/or financial support requirement.
       Supporting documents should be obtained from the official state or foreign country agency
       responsible for registering such actions. If supporting documents cannot be obtained within a rea-
       sonable period, such as a delay caused by the official state agency, alternate documentation may
       be used temporarily. If it is impractical or impossible to obtain supporting documents, alternate
       documentation may be used permanently. Examples of sufficient, alternate documents include
       hospital or church records signed by the record’s custodian.
       26.6.1.2. Legal name change documents when appropriate.
       26.6.1.3. English translation of required supporting documents when appropriate.
       26.6.1.4. Any other documentation pertinent to the claim may be submitted.
   26.6.2. Primary dependency claim requirements. These requirements are specific to the type of pri-
   mary claim submitted, and are in addition to the requirements outlined in 26.6.1.
       26.6.2.1. Lawful Spouse or Dependent Child Under 21 Years of Age. The original, or certified
       copy of the original, relationship document (i.e. birth certificate and/or marriage certificate). This
       also applies to children born out-of-wedlock, adopted, or step children. There may be situations
       where a marriage is doubtful. The validity of the marriage will be determined at base level with
       the assistance of the local Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) (paragraph 26.7.1.). However, when infor-
       mation is received that indicates a marriage is void or annulled, then it is a purported marriage for
       pay purposes, and must be treated as outlined in paragraph 26.6.4.7.
       26.6.2.2. Dependent Child Not in Member’s Custody. The requirement to pay child support and
       the amount thereof must be documented by a divorce decree, legal separation agreement, court
       order and/or a statement signed by both the member and the custodian of the child on whose
       behalf the support is paid. The signed statement must be notarized, identify the amount received,
       and indicate the custodian’s willingness to accept such support payments from the member. The
       amount paid must be at least equal to the BAH-DIFF rate for the member’s grade. The signed
       statement should be submitted in conjunction with the appropriate legal document when the legal
       document:
          26.6.2.2.1. Is silent on dependent support.
          26.6.2.2.2. Does not state an amount of dependent support.
          26.6.2.2.3. Absolves the member of dependent support responsibilities.
          26.6.2.2.4. Requires an amount less than the BAH-DIFF rate for the member’s grade.
       26.6.2.3. Dependent Child in Member’s Custody and Member’s Marriage is Terminated. The
       member must provide the original, or a certified copy of the original, divorce decree, annulment
       and bill of complaint, petition for amendment or certificate of spouse, as applicable.
412                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         26.6.2.4. Dependent Child Not in Custody of the Member, Resides with Member for More than
         90 Days. The member must provide the original, or a certified copy of the original, court order,
         decree, written agreement, etc. stating that the child will reside with member for more than 90
         days. This document is used to start member’s BAH-I at the with-dependent rate, unless member
         resides in housing. Entitlement can be started at the beginning of the 90-day period. If, after the
         fact, it is determined that the dependent did not stay the full 90 days, process the stop retroactive
         to the start date.
      26.6.3. Secondary dependency claim requirements (general). These requirements must be met for all
      secondary dependency claims, and are in addition to the requirements outlined in paragraph 26.6.1.
         26.6.3.1. The member must sign and date the DFAS-DE Form 1856, Statement of Understanding
         Basic Allowance for Quarters–Dependents (Figure 26.5.). This is required only on initial BAH
         claims sent to DFAS-JMOB/DE.
         26.6.3.2. An AF Form 594 must accompany every BAH claim (initial or re-determination) sent to
         DFAS-JMOB/DE.
         26.6.3.3. Written verification of the dependent’s income, from all sources, is required.
         26.6.3.4. Proof of the member’s support, such as canceled checks, money order receipts or a
         dependent support allotment, is required on all BAH claims when the dependent does not reside in
         the member’s household.
         26.6.3.5. The appropriate dependency statement must be completed, signed by member, signed by
         the dependent or dependent's guardian, and notarized.
      26.6.4. Secondary dependent claim requirements (specific). These requirements are specific to the
      type of secondary claim submitted, and are in addition to the requirements outlined in paragraphs
      26.6.1. and 26.6.3.
         26.6.4.1. Parent. DD Form 137-3, Dependency Statement-Parent. This includes parents, steppar-
         ents, parents-in-law or parents by adoption.
         26.6.4.2. Child Born Out of Wedlock and Under the Age of 21. DD Form 137-4, Dependency
         Statement-Child Born Out of Wedlock under Age 21. Use this statement for a male member with
         child born out of wedlock. This form is only used for (United States Identification Program) USIP
         card applications; BAH entitlement is determined at the local FSO (paragraph 26-6.b).
         26.6.4.3. Incapacitated Child over the Age of 21. DD Form 137-5, Dependency Statement-Inca-
         pacitated Child over Age 21. Include a Medical Sufficiency Statement (MSS) from a military
         medical treatment facility. The MSS must be signed by the hospital commander and must indicate
         that the child is incapable of self-support due to a physical or mental incapacity. The incapacity
         must have existed on a continuous basis since before age 21 (or while in a student status) for USIP
         card privileges and BAH entitlement. This form is also used for USIP card applications for inca-
         pacitated students.
         26.6.4.4. Full-time Student 21-22 Years of Age. DD Form 137-6, Dependency Statement-Full
         Time Student 21-22 Years of Age. Include a letter from the accredited college or university veri-
         fying the dependent's full-time enrollment, documentation of school expenses, and any educa-
         tional assistance the dependent may receive. The form is used for monetary allowances only.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            413


     26.6.4.5. Ward of a Court. DD Form 137-7, Dependency Statement - Ward of a Court. Include a
     copy of the court order granting guardianship.
     26.6.4.6. In loco parentis. DD Form 137-3, Dependent Statement-Parent. An in loco parentis
     relationship exists when a person voluntarily accepts a child (now the member), not their own, into
     the home and assumes the duties, obligations, rights, and privileges of a parent. The parental rela-
     tionship must have existed for a continuous period of not less than 5 years before the member’s
     emancipation. Supervision of the activities of a child or the administration of the estate by an
     adult other than a biological parent is not sufficient to establish an in loco parentis relationship.
     Acting as custodian, legal guardian, or nurse also does not establish an in loco parentis relation-
     ship. A person in loco parentis to the member’s spouse is not eligible for any entitlement. Persons
     standing in loco parentis to the member are not eligible for USIP cards.
        26.6.4.6.1. As proof of an in loco parentis relationship, signed and notarized affidavits from
        the service member, claimed dependent and two disinterested persons who have knowledge of
        the in loco parentis relationship to the member are required.
            26.6.4.6.1.1. The member and the claimed dependent must each submit a separate affida-
            vit showing:
                26.6.4.6.1.1.1. Name of the member, date of birth and Social Security Number (SSN).
                26.6.4.6.1.1.2. Full name and date of birth of the claimed dependent.
                26.6.4.6.1.1.3. Date the relationship began and the length of time it continued.
                26.6.4.6.1.1.4. Name and address of the biological parents during the period shown in
                (3) above.
                26.6.4.6.1.1.5. Explanation of the circumstances that led to the in loco parentis rela-
                tionship. If by written agreement, furnish a copy.
                26.6.4.6.1.1.6. The affidavit must include information such as whether the claimed
                dependent exercised full parental control, planned educational training, and used per-
                sonal funds for support of the member. If another person provided support to the mem-
                ber, explain.
            26.6.4.6.1.2. Affidavits from two disinterested persons must include:
                26.6.4.6.1.2.1. Date relationship started.
                26.6.4.6.1.2.2. Member’s age and the claimed dependent’s age on the date the relation-
                ship started.
                26.6.4.6.1.2.3. Under what circumstances the relationship first began.
                26.6.4.6.1.2.4. How long the relationship lasted.
                26.6.4.6.1.2.5. Any periods after the relationship started when the member did not live
                in the claimed dependent’s household.
                26.6.4.6.1.2.6. The various ways the claimed dependent performed the duties and
                responsibilities of a parent, such as supervision, education, financial support, etc.
                26.6.4.6.1.2.7. How the persons completing the affidavit acquired personal knowledge
                of the in loco parentis relationship.
414                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                26.6.4.6.1.3. Full name and date of birth of the claimed dependent.
                26.6.4.6.1.4. Date the relationship began and the length of time it continued.
                26.6.4.6.1.5. Name and address of the biological parents during the period shown in (3)
                above.
                26.6.4.6.1.6. Explanation of the circumstances that led to the in loco parentis relationship.
                If by written agreement, furnish a copy.
                26.6.4.6.1.7. The affidavit must include information such as whether the claimed depen-
                dent exercised full parental control, planned educational training, and used personal funds
                for support of the member. If another person provided support to the member, explain.
             26.6.4.6.2. Affidavits from two disinterested persons must include:
                26.6.4.6.2.1. Date relationship started.
                26.6.4.6.2.2. Member’s age and the claimed dependent’s age on the date the relationship
                started.
                26.6.4.6.2.3. Under what circumstances the relationship first began.
                26.6.4.6.2.4. How long the relationship lasted.
                26.6.4.6.2.5. Any periods after the relationship started when the member did not live in the
                claimed dependent’s household.
                26.6.4.6.2.6. The various ways the claimed dependent performed the duties and responsi-
                bilities of a parent, such as supervision, education, financial support, etc.
                26.6.4.6.2.7. How the persons completing the affidavit acquired personal knowledge of
                the in loco parentis relationship.
         26.6.4.7. Purported Marriages. When information is received that indicates a marriage is void or
         annulled, then it is a purported marriage for pay purposes. A BAH claim for a spouse or child of a
         purported marriage (that is, void or annulled marriage) should be sent to DFAS-JMOB/DE for
         determination of the validity of the marriage and or retention of payments of BAH already made.
         The FSO compiles and sends:
             26.6.4.7.1. Copies of legal documents relating to the marriage, such as a marriage certificate,
             annulment decree, divorce decree and birth certificate for any child of the purported marriage
             are required.
             26.6.4.7.2. A separate transmittal document explaining the circumstances that invalidated the
             relationship and any other supporting documents that the member provides. DFAS-JMOB/DE
             performs a review of the relationship and will provide written notification to the FSO and to
             the member.
      26.6.5. Evidence or Claims of Non-Support. Evidence or claims of non-support and requests for sup-
      port made by a member’s dependent or someone acting on behalf of a dependent may be sent to the
      appropriate FSO or directly to DFAS-JMOB/DE.
         26.6.5.1. Evidence or claims of non-support and requests for support may include:
             26.6.5.1.1. Requests for support.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             415


          26.6.5.1.2. Court-ordered garnishments.
          26.6.5.1.3. Non-support complaints.
          26.6.5.1.4. Notifications of support reduction.
          26.6.5.1.5. Special Investigation Reports.
          26.6.5.1.6. Record Reviews.
          26.6.5.1.7. Fraud, Waste, and Abuse complaints.
          26.6.5.1.8. Sworn testimony by individuals.
          26.6.5.1.9. Member statements.
       26.6.5.2. FSO Action. When any of the events outlined in 26-6.e.1 occur, the FSO must review
       the member’s BAH entitlement(s) for possible start, stop or recoupment action. The FSO will:
          26.6.5.2.1. Contact the member to determine if support is being furnished.
          26.6.5.2.2. Inform the member that the JFTR, chapter 10, requires recoupment of BAH paid
          to members who did not support dependents on whose behalf BAH was claimed, and that the
          member’s BAH entitlement at the with dependent rate will be stopped and recouped for the
          entire period unless the member proves adequate support was provided.
          26.6.5.2.3. Review all documentation (divorce decree, support agreement, etc.) to determine
          how much support was required.
          26.6.5.2.4. Review all documentation (cancelled checks, money orders, affidavits from
          dependents, allotments, etc.) to determine how much support was actually provided.
          26.6.5.2.5. Change the BAH at the with dependent rate to appropriate BAH (i.e., BAH at the
          without dependent rate or Partial-BAH) for the period(s) that the member cannot prove ade-
          quate support was provided.

26.7. Relationship or Dependency Determinations. The completed AF Form 594, applicable depen-
dency statement and all supporting documents are forwarded to the FSO. The FSO examines the AF
Form 594, dependency statement and supporting documents to ensure that the requirements of paragraph
26.6. are met and a determination of relationship or dependency for BAH purposes can be made. See
JFTR, chapter 10, Part B, for complete relationship and dependency definitions, rules.
   26.7.1. Local FSO Determinations (Primary Dependents). The FSO, or designated representative,
   determines relationship or dependency per paragraph 26-6 when BAH is claimed on behalf of a lawful
   spouse or unmarried children under 21 years of age (this includes children born out of wedlock,
   adopted or step-children).
       26.7.1.1. Any questions as to the legal sufficiency of such documents should be referred to the
       local SJA for determination of the documentation's legal sufficiency to establish such birth or mar-
       riage.
       26.7.1.2. On the basis of documentation submitted, and after the local SJA determination of legal
       sufficiency, if appropriate, the FSO verifies relationship of spouse and children, or both.
416                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         26.7.1.3. The FSO returns the documents (or copies) to member unless, after the local SJA
         review, doubts still exist about their legal sufficiency. In that case, process claim as prescribed in
         paragraphs 26.7.2., 26.6.4.7. and 74.2.2.4. of this volume.
      26.7.2. DFAS-DE Determinations (Secondary Dependents). Immediately upon receipt from the
      member, the FSO forwards all dependency claims, not included in paragraph 26.6.1. to DFAS-JMOB/
      DE, using AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal (Figure 2.5.) and annotates DD Form 1863, Depen-
      dency Determinations Control Log (Figure 26.6.).
         26.7.2.1. Parents, parents-in-law, stepparents, parents by adoption.
         26.7.2.2. Children born out of wedlock and under 21 years of age (USIP card privileges only,
         BAH entitlement determined locally (paragraph 26.7.1.)).
         26.7.2.3. Incapacitated children over 21 years of age, including incapacitated students 21-22 years
         of age.
         26.7.2.4. Full-time students, 21-22 years of age. If only an ID card is requested, no dependency
         determination is sent to DFAS. Member provides documentation to MPF to get or renew ID card.
         26.7.2.5. Ward of the court.
         26.7.2.6. In loco parentis (No USIP card privileges).
         26.7.2.7. Legally questionable claims/Purported Marriages.
      26.7.3. Upon completion of dependency determination, DFAS-JMOB/DE notifies the member, FSO,
      and MPF of determination results.
         26.7.3.1. When required, a DD Form 139 is completed by DFAS-JMOB/DE and sent to the mem-
         ber’s servicing FSO, to start, stop, or change BAH, as appropriate. Upon receipt of the DD Form
         139, the FSO:
             26.7.3.1.1. Annotates the DD Form 1863
             26.7.3.1.2. Processes the required action via DJMS
             26.7.3.1.3. Acknowledges receipt on, and returns, the AF Form 1209.
         26.7.3.2. The member receives a copy of the DD Form 139 and a letter advising of the determina-
         tion. In cases that require debt establishment, the letter begins the member’s due process.
         26.7.3.3. In cases that require a retroactive stop or reduction in entitlement, DJMS will establish a
         debt based on the retroactive nature of the reduction and suspend collection action pending due
         process. The FSO provides due process in accordance with Chapter 70 of this regulation and
         JFTR, paragraph 500104.A.2 prior to processing the DQ20 to resume debt collection.

26.8. Secondary Dependent BAH Dependency Re-determinations.
      26.8.1. DFAS-JMOB/DE, Dependent Entitlements Branch, performs the annual review of BAH
      re-determination applications for members who claim
         26.8.1.1. Parents, parents-in-law, stepparents, parents-by-adoption
         26.8.1.2. Incapacitated children over 21 years of age, including incapacitated students 21-22 years
         of age
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             417


     26.8.1.3. Full-time students, 21 and 22 years of age
     26.8.1.4. Ward of a court
     26.8.1.5. In loco parentis
  26.8.2. Note that on initial applications the member is stating current facts. The approval of an initial
  claim authorizes the FSO to start and make retroactive payment(s) of any BAH claimed. Although it
  authorizes the FSO to start this entitlement, it does not substantiate future payments or confirm that
  the “in fact” dependency requirements are still being met. This is accomplished via a required annual
  re-determination. In addition to annual re-determinations, re-determination s must also be accom-
  plished on PCS, or entry/exit from government quarters. Re-determinations are performed to ensure
  dependency existed and entitlement continued without interruption since the date of the initial or last
  re-determination. The re-determination also allows continued receipt of BAH. The member is
  advised at the time of approval when the annual re-determination must be performed. See Figure
  26.7. for the schedule of annual re-determinations.
  26.8.3. The month before the re-determination is due, a letter is sent to the member, by DFAS-JMOB/
  DE, instructing the member to resubmit the required forms for the dependency test.
  26.8.4. When a member submits his or her re-determination package, the FSO annotates the
  DFAS-DE Form 1863, and immediately mails the package to DFAS-JMOB/DE, using AF Form 1209.
  26.8.5. A member’s failure to provide required documents to the FSO will cause BAH to be termi-
  nated. If a member fails to submit the package by the end of the month in which the forms are due, the
  FSO:
     26.8.5.1. Stops BAH at the with-dependent rate, effective the last day of the month
     26.8.5.2. Starts BAH at the appropriate without-dependent entitlement, effective the next day.
         26.8.5.2.1. For example, if a member's re-determination is due in September, stop the higher
         rate of the allowances effective 30 September. Start the appropriate lower rate effective 1
         October.
     26.8.5.3. Prepares an AF Form 594 to substantiate the change, and annotates on the form, “mem-
     ber failed to submit a re-determination package”. Normal AF Form 594 distribution and retention
     procedures apply.
     26.8.5.4. Notifies the member that collection action will be taken effective the date of the last
     re-determination.
     26.8.5.5. Provides the member due process; if after 60 days, if the FSO has nothing to indicate the
     collection would be incorrect, processes a DQ to collect the overpayment over 12 months.
  26.8.6. If the member provides the re-determination package late, the FSO:
     26.8.6.1. Ensures the procedures outlined in Paragraph 26.8.3. and 26.8.4. were followed.
     26.8.6.2. Does not restart the higher rate of the allowance.
  26.8.7. If the delay was due to circumstances beyond the member's control, a statement from his or
  her commander must be included with the re-determination package for consideration by
  DFAS-JMOB/DE.
418                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      26.8.8. An AF Form 594 is required on every re-determination sent to DFAS-JMOB/DE. Failure to
      include this form could result in collection action.
      26.8.9. Upon completion of the re-determination, DFAS-JMOB/DE notifies the member, FSO, and
      MPF of determination results as outlined in paragraph 26.7.3.

26.9. Re-certification. For re-certification policy and procedures see Chapter 32.

26.10. Verification of Family-Type Government Quarters Assignments. To prevent erroneous pay-
ments of BAH to members assigned to adequate and inadequate family-type government quarters:
      26.10.1. Upon receipt of notification that the quarterly BAH/ACES bump is available on Report.Web,
      the MAJCOM distributes the various base-level reports to each of its bases. Finance provides a copy
      of appropriate reports/lists to the local housing office for review.
      26.10.2. Within 5 business days, the housing office validates the data and submits whatever changes
      are needed, either to their records, or to DJMS. If DJMS requires change, the housing office provides
      the original AF IMT 594 and transmittal log or a new AF IMT 594 will be retroactive to the date BAH
      payments should have been stopped. Once the reviews are complete, necessary pay adjustments are
      made.
      26.10.3. By the established suspense date, MAJCOM notifies AFAFO that the reconciliation is com-
      plete.
      26.10.4. The HMO's listing of housing assignment includes the name of both members when husband
      and wife are military members.
      26.10.5. If a member appearing on the HMO listing is not serviced by the local FSO and has depen-
      dents living in government quarters at the local base, the local FSO determines the member's current
      servicing FSO and if BAH was paid during the time period that government quarters were provided to
      the dependents.
         26.10.5.1. If the member received BAH during the time the dependents were provided govern-
         ment quarters:
             26.10.5.1.1. The local FSO notifies the member's servicing FSO by message, identifying the
             member, the date government quarters were provided the dependents, and the correct fair
             rental value when inadequate government quarters were provided.
             26.10.5.1.2. The servicing FSO determines whether the BAH should be discontinued, and if
             so, stops the BAH.
             26.10.5.1.3. The servicing FSO establishes a debt to recoup overpayments when necessary.
             The FSO provides due process in accordance with Chapter 70 of this regulation and JFTR,
             paragraph 500104.A.2 prior to processing the DQ20 to resume debt collection.
      26.10.6. Fair rental value automatically updates when BAH rates change, unless member-to-member
      marriage is involved. In that case, a UG management notice is issued for rate changes
      (CLOST-BAH-DEPN-CODE= I and W) and the FSO verifies and adjusts fair rental value for both
      members.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            419


   26.10.7. Upon completion of the verification (at the 45-day suspense date or earlier if directed by the
   MAJCOM) the FSO notifies their MAJCOM that the verification is complete and necessary correc-
   tions were made.

26.11. Verification of Single-Type Government Quarters Assignments. To prevent erroneous pay-
ments of BAH to members assigned to single-type government quarters, FSO works with HMO to ensure
members who are assigned to single-type quarters are receiving partial rate BAH.
   26.11.1. For those members identified by housing as no longer assigned to single-type quarters, the
   HMO provides an AF Form 594 showing termination date. Similarly, for those members HMO iden-
   tifies as being assigned to single-type quarters, HMO provides the FSO with AF Form 594 including
   assignment date.
   26.11.2. The FSO provides the Housing office chief a list of personnel residing in UPH: Not receiving
   Partial Rate BAH, Receiving BAH DIFF, Receiving BAH (FID 68), Assigned Family Housing; this is
   the "Base Dormitory Report". Within 5 business days, the Housing office chief will validate the data
   and submit changes in BAH authorization, using the original AF IMT 594 and transmittal log. If an
   AF IMT 594 does not exist, the action dates on the new AF IMT 594 will be retroactive to the date
   BAH payments should have been stopped.
   26.11.3. The HMO and the units are jointly responsible to ensure that members on the without-depen-
   dent rate list are not assigned single-type government quarters. The HMO prepares an AF Form 594,
   and forwards it to the FSO, when members are erroneously paid BAH at the without-dependent rate.
   The HMO should process all quarters assignments or terminations within 5 days.
   26.11.4. The FSO verifies Partial BAH manually. The FSO uses the lists to identify members not
   receiving Partial BAH and not living in family-type government quarters. The members that are not
   assigned to family-type government quarters (see above) may be eligible for Partial BAH. Mis-
   matched SSNs are researched and an AF Form 594 is prepared for each member entitled to Partial
   BAH.

26.12. Dependency Discrepancy Reconciliation. A reconciliation between data contained in DJMS and
the Military Personnel Data System (MILPDS) is conducted semi-annually to identify discrepancies. The
reconciliation produces three reports that are used to verify members' BAH entitlements. The reports are:
PCN: UH099C0471 - Officer/Enlisted Dependency discrepancies (Figure 26.8.); PCN: UH099C081 -
Mil-Mil BAQ Same ADSN-Central-Site Match (Report No.1) (Figure 26.9.); and Mil-Mil BAQ Differ-
ent ADSN-Central-Site Match (Report No. 2) (Figure 26.10.).
   26.12.1. Receipt of the reports. The reports are made available to each FSO via SAR. DFAS-JMPBC/
   DE sends a message to the network once the reports are available. A report of the members who
   appeared on the prior report is also included. The date on the message is used to set a 45-day suspense
   date for completion and return to DFAS-JMPBC/DE. The FSO forwards one copy of these reports to
   the MPF for action. These reports are a priority and the discrepancies must be corrected as soon as
   possible.
   26.12.2. Performing the Review.
       26.12.2.1. PCN: UH099C0471. Discrepancies between the Closest Dependent Code for BAH in
       DJMS-AC and the Marital Status Code in Military Personnel Date System (MilPDS).
420                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             26.12.2.1.1. Compare the PCN: UH099C0471 to available information and annotate the
             report with the information found, indicating which database needs to be corrected (i.e.,
             DJMS, MILPDS, neither). For example, if one member is coded with a BAH Closest Depen-
             dent Code of A and MILPDS shows a code of annulled (A), divorced (D), legally separated
             (L), single (S) or widowed (W), then suspect that there has been an overpayment of BAH to
             this household.
             26.12.2.1.2. Entries with an MPF Dependency Code of “S” and DJMS Closest Dependent
             Code of “C” are not valid discrepancies and should be disregarded.
         26.12.2.2. PCN: UH099C081 Report No. 1 and Report No. 2. These reports identify possible
         overpayments of BAH at the with-dependent rate.
             26.12.2.2.1. Stop the BAH for members whose records indicate possible overpayments. For
             example, when one member is coded with a BAH closest dependent code of A, B, C or W and
             the spouse is coded A, B, W or BAH-DIFF, then suspect that there has been an overpayment
             of BAH, even though the members do not reside together. If both members are residing
             together and receiving BAH at the with-dependent rate for the same household, stop only the
             junior member's entitlement. When a member's entitlement is stopped, the regular supporting
             documentation is required to restart the BAH.
      26.12.3. Follow-up to determine if a debt should be established due to overpayment.
         26.12.3.1. Obtain the information necessary to resolve the discrepancy in the usual ways - per-
         sonal interview, telephone, FAX, letter, or by having the member complete an AF Form 594 or AF
         Form 987, Re-certification of Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ), Overseas Housing Allowance
         (OHA), Family Separation Allowance (FSA), and Cost-of-Living Allowance (COLA) (Figure
         32.1.). If a member does not respond to the initial inquiry within 10 days, contact the member’s
         unit. If advised that the member is unable to report to the FSO (on leave, temporary duty (TDY),
         etc.), request the unit provide an expected return date.
         26.12.3.2. Minor, non pay-affecting discrepancies do not require immediate action against the
         Master Military Pay Account (MMPA). Annotate the report and count the discrepancy as a DJMS
         error. Ensure follow-up is done to correct them in a timely manner.
         26.12.3.3. If members provide information or documentation to support the entitlements reflected
         in their pay accounts, instruct the members (to include both spouses when military members are
         married) to go to the MPF to have the necessary changes made, annotate the report accordingly,
         and count the discrepancy as a MILPDS error.
         26.12.3.4. If member resides in government quarters and his or her Closest BAH Dependent Code
         is incorrect, prepare and process a DD Form 114 with a statement explaining the changes needed,
         ensure the member's name, SSN, incorrect (current) code and the correct code is included. (See
         Figure 26.15. for change transaction.)
      26.12.4. Preparation of DFAS-DE Form 2429 (HAF-ACF (SA) 8502) (Figure 26.11.). Account for
      the total number of errors identified by the reports, by category, on the DFAS-DE Form 2429 (i.e.,
      DJMS, MILPDS, other). Errors include those that cannot be corrected immediately because the mem-
      ber is unavailable as well as those identified in paragraph 26.12.2.
      26.12.5. Distribution of Reports and DFAS-DE Form 2429. After the reports have been annotated
      with all discrepancies discovered, the FSO forwards the DFAS-DE Form 2429, with the list of names
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             421


   and SSN of those members whose records in MILPDS require correction, to the MPF for action. The
   MPF corrects the MILPDS records, countersigns the DFAS-DE Form 2429, and returns it to the FSO.
   Upon receipt of the DFAS-DE Form 2429 from the MPF, the FSO makes a copy of the annotated list-
   ings and the DFAS-DE Form 2429 for FSO retention, then mails the originals to DFAS-JMPBC/DE,
   6760 E. Irvington Pl., Denver CO 80279-3000, with a copy to the MAJCOM. Ensure DFAS-JMPBC/
   DE receives the annotated reports and the completed DFAS-DE Form 2429 by the suspense date.
       26.12.5.1. Advise the MPF of the purpose of this review and request the return of the listing, with
       Marital Status Code corrections annotated, in sufficient time for the FSO to meet the DFAS-DE
       suspense. It is essential that the FSO and MPF coordinate to resolve and prevent discrepancies. If
       a member reports to the FSO or MPF to change Marital Status or Dependency code, whichever
       office the member reports to opens a CMS case and refers it to the other for update to the other
       system.
       26.12.5.2. Each time a member makes a dependency status change in either DJMS or MILPDS, a
       notice is printed with MPF daily processing. If the change was in the MILPDS, a listing titled
       "MPF/FMF Marital Status Interface Transaction Register" is printed addressed to the FSO. Upon
       receipt, ensure a corresponding change is made to DJMS. If the change was in DJMS, a listing
       titled "Notice of Dependency or Marital Status Change” is printed. MPF should ensure a corre-
       sponding change is made to the MILPDS.

26.13. Assignment/Termination of TLF. TLF, or other transient type facilities are not considered gov-
ernment quarters for BAH purposes. Accordingly, they have no impact on a member’s BAH entitlement.

26.14. BAH Entitlement. Paragraphs 26.15. through 26.27. provide explanation of entitlement condi-
tions for some commonly misunderstood scenarios. These paragraphs do not supersede, but are intended
for use in conjunction with, the JFTR, chapter 10. For complete explanation of these and other BAH enti-
tlement conditions see JFTR, chapter 10.

26.15. BAH Entitlement-New Accessions. Newly inducted, enlisted or re-enlisted members, officers,
and officer candidates with dependents are entitled to BAH-I effective the date of enlistment or entry on
active duty and continuing through the day before the member arrives at his/her initial PDS. The rate is
based on the location of the dependents. In instances where the member’s dependents reside at a location
outside the U.S., the rate is based on the member’s training location. A member without dependents is
authorized BAH-T, and only during periods of travel between duty/training sites and his/her initial PDS.

26.16. BAH Entitlement-Dependent Child in Custody of Someone Other Than Member (Entitle-
ment Started before 5 Dec 1991). Members assigned to single-type government quarters and receiving
BAQ at the with-dependent rate on December 4, 1991, solely by reason of child support payment, con-
tinue to be entitled to such entitlement on behalf of this dependent until another dependent is acquired on
whose behalf BAH may be claimed or the member completes a PCS move on or after 1 Jan 1998, which-
ever is first.

26.17. BAH Entitlement-Member in a Non-pay Status. See JFTR, chapter 10, for payment standards
and limitations.
422                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      26.17.1. Unauthorized Absence. The dependents of a member in pay grade E4 (4 years or less ser-
      vice) or lower are entitled to continue receipt of the member’s BAH entitlement while the member is
      in a non-pay status for a maximum of 60 days.
         26.17.1.1. Request for Payment. Request for payment of BAH may be made by the dependent on
         whose behalf BAH is claimed or by dependent's fiduciary or custodian. Such request must be in
         writing and worded essentially: "I, (name), (capacity in which request is made--spouse, fiduciary,
         custodian) (if fiduciary or custodian show name on whose behalf payment is requested), request
         payment of Basic Allowance for Housing against the account of (member's name, grade, SSN)
         who entered an unauthorized absence status (describe status) on (date)." The FSO assists claimant
         to the extent possible in preparing the request for payment. Upon receipt of a request for payment,
         which is, in the FSO opinion, of doubtful propriety, full particulars should be furnished to AF/
         DPDF via the MAJCOM by priority email. AF/DPDF determines the validity of the request for
         payment and advises the FSO by priority email.
         26.17.1.2. Documentation Required. The request itself is the only documentation required to
         establish dependent's entitlement provided official Air Force records indicate the requestor is the
         dependent or acting on the dependent’s behalf. Official Air Force records include, but are not lim-
         ited to, AF Form 594 and/or enrollment in Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
         (DEERS).
         26.17.1.3. Amount Payable. Payment is made at the rate credited to the member at the time the
         absence commenced. Payments include accrual from the first day of unauthorized absence
         through date of payment, not to exceed 2 months total. Subsequent payments are made, if neces-
         sary, as of the end of the 2 month period or the date the member returned to military control,
         whichever comes first.
         26.17.1.4. Payment Procedures. The FSO:
             26.17.1.4.1. Computes payment due dependent
             26.17.1.4.2. Prepares DD Form 1351-6.
             26.17.1.4.3. Submit a PD03 for each payment.
             26.17.1.4.4. Submits a 3503 for each period paid, along with the appropriate housing transac-
             tion (6803 or 4303) to reinstate BAH for the period of unauthorized absence covered by the
             above payment. One or two 3503s may be submitted. When one 3503 is submitted, it must be
             for at least 30 days and cannot exceed 60 days. When two 3503s are submitted, each must be
             for 30 days.
      26.17.2. Members in Pretrial Confinement in a Foreign Country:
         26.17.2.1. For enlisted members in pay grade E4 (4 years or less service) or lower, payment is
         authorized for a period not to exceed 2 months. For any additional months, there must be a show-
         ing of hardship on the dependent and approval is on a case-by-case basis by AF/DPPC.
         26.17.2.2. For enlisted members in pay grade E4 (over 4 years of service) and above, there must
         be demonstrated hardship on the dependent and approval is on a case-by-case basis by AF/DPPC.
         26.17.2.3. See 26-17.a subparagraphs (1) through (4) for request, documentation, and payment
         requirements.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             423


   26.17.3. Member in Excess Leave Status. BAH may be paid to a member in pay grade E4 (4 years or
   less service) or below, with dependents, for a period not to exceed 2 months during which an excess
   leave status exists, unless member is not expected to return to duty (examples: appellate leave or
   commandant's parole). Management Notice-X803, Notice of BAQ Stop--Excess Leave, is sent to the
   FSO via JDC when a member enters an excess leave status. The FSO computes 2-month period from
   first day of excess leave. To authorize BAH for period of excess leave, the FSO submits a 3503 for
   each period of entitlement.

26.18. BAH Entitlement-BAH Rate Protection. BAH Rate Protection is designed to avoid reductions
in a member's housing allowance when the member's actual costs remain unchanged.
   26.18.1. While on station within the continental United States (CONUS): BAH Rate Protection is
   maintained and BAH-I shall not be reduced as a result of changes in MHA costs, national costs or pro-
   motion of the member. BAH Rate Protection is lost if a member is demoted, moves out of the current
   MHA, or when there is a change in dependency status.
   26.18.2. Upon PCS: A member may request BAH Rate Protection via waiver. BAH Rate Protection
   waivers must be applied for through the servicing MPF and approved by AF/A1SF. The following
   conditions warrant waiver consideration:
      26.18.2.1. Low Cost/No Cost Moves. A member with dependents reassigned incident to a low
      cost/no cost move within the U.S. is entitled to continue receipt of BAH-I at the old PDS rate if the
      member and dependents reside separately.
      26.18.2.2. PCS to Attend Professional Military Education (PME). A member with dependents,
      assigned PCS to attend PME, technical training, or career education for 12 months or less, may
      request a waiver to the normal BAH policy. This waiver, if approved, allows the member to
      receive BAH-I for a location other than the PDS (PME location). The member may elect to
      receive BAH-I at the rate for the new PDS, old PDS or the dependent's location if the member
      does not have an old PDS. A waiver is not required if the member elects to receive the new PDS
      rate, as it is the rate payable upon arrival in the absence of an approved waiver. If approved, the
      FSO uses the approval letter, amended orders indicating limited PCS entitlements, and AF Form
      594 as support for payment. If approved, the FSO ensures reimbursement for TLE, DLA and per
      diem are still paid at the single rate.
      26.18.2.3. Dependent Restricted/Unaccompanied Tours. A member with dependents, assigned
      PCS to an unaccompanied tour overseas, is entitled to continued receipt of BAH-I at the old PDS
      rate if all of the following conditions exist:
          26.18.2.3.1. Prior to PCS, member and dependent(s) occupied a residence within a MHA
          other than that of the old PDS.
          26.18.2.3.2. The dependent(s) do not relocate.
          26.18.2.3.3. The MHA rate for this area is lower than the old PDS rate.
   26.18.3. If the member is entitled to rate protection under this paragraph, the gaining FSO processes
   a 6801 using the ZIP Code of the old PDS after the SG03 transaction has processed. If the member is
   not entitled, the gaining FSO processes a 6801 or 6804 using the ZIP Code of the dependent’s resi-
   dence.
424                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


26.19. BAH Entitlement-Dependents Remain Overseas (DRO)/Housing Waivers. A n a p p r o v e d
DRO, or housing waiver (JFTR, U10208), authorizes continued receipt of overseas housing allowances
(OHA) or BAH for Hawaii or Alaska. It does not authorize a second, separate or “dual” housing allow-
ance. An approved DRO is for a specified time period. Continued receipt of overseas allowances, BAH
and/or COLA stop at the end of this specified period. NOTE: An approved DRO does not supersede, or
otherwise make obsolete, the entitlements authorized as a result of a dependent-restricted assignment and
certain unaccompanied assignments.
      26.19.1. Example 1: A member with an assignment to Lakenheath AFB (OCONUS) received an
      approved DRO for his dependents in Germany. The member would continue to receive with-depen-
      dent OHA for Germany while on assignment to England, and would not receive a separate (or dual)
      entitlement for himself.
      26.19.2. Example 2: A member with an assignment to Bolling AFB (CONUS) has received an
      approved DRO for his dependents in Germany. The member would continue to receive with-depen-
      dent OHA, and would not receive a separate (or dual) entitlement for himself.
      26.19.3. Example 3: A member with an assignment to Bolling AFB (CONUS) has received an
      approved DRO for his dependents in Hawaii or Alaska. The member would continue to receive
      with-dependent BAH for Hawaii or Alaska, and would not receive a separate (or dual) entitlement for
      himself.

26.20. BAH Entitlement-Early Return of Dependents (ERD).
      26.20.1. ERD. An approved ERD authorizes movement of command-sponsored dependents from a
      location OCONUS prior to the issuance of PCS orders. An ERD may be requested by the member or
      directed by the member’s command. If an ERD is approved, and transportation costs are paid by the
      government, the ERD authorizes BAH-I or OHA at the with-dependent rate based upon the depen-
      dent’s location in addition to any without-dependent rate BAH entitlements the member is authorized.
      This includes FSH-O or FSH-B if otherwise eligible. If the government does not pay transportation
      costs, the dependents movement is not considered an ERD for entitlement purposes. Accordingly,
      with-dependent OHA for the PDS continues.

26.21. BAH Entitlement-Designated Location Moves (DLM). A DLM may be requested in conjunc-
tion with a member’s assignment to a dependent restricted/unaccompanied assignment. An approved
DLM authorizes dependent relocation at government expense. This is in addition to any without-depen-
dent rate BAH entitlements the member may be authorized as a result of the dependent restricted/unac-
companied assignment. If dependents relocate at personal expense from a designated place in a BAH area
to a different location in a BAH area that is not at or near the member’s PDS, continue BAH based on the
previously authorized location (either old PDS or dependent location before the move). If the dependents
relocate from a designated place in an OHA area to a location in a BAH area, start BAH based on the new
location on the dependents’ arrival date and stop the OHA the day prior to dependents’ departure.

26.22. BAH Entitlement-Member in TDY or PCS Status.
      26.22.1. TDY station changed to PDS. This includes members hospitalized or on terminal leave.
      When a member receives PCS orders while hospitalized, on emergency leave, or TDY, the member’s
      entitlement to BAH-I at the new PDS is based upon the effective date of orders.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                425


   26.22.2. TDY (PCS not involved). A member on TDY receives BAH-I or OHA based on the PDS.
   26.22.3. TDY En Route PCS. These rules apply to members with or without dependents.
       26.22.3.1. A member departing a PDS within the U.S., with TDY en route, is entitled to the
       BAH-I rate paid at the member’s old PDS until the member reports at the new PDS.
       26.22.3.2. A member departing a PDS outside the U.S., with TDY en route, is entitled to BAH-T
       until the member reports at the new PDS.

26.23. BAH Entitlement-New Claims Prior to Separation. If a member acquires a dependent within
90 days prior to separation and attempts to claim BAH, but is unable to produce the necessary supporting
documents, the member may later submit a claim (Chapter 74).

26.24. BAH Entitlement-Terminal Leave.
   26.24.1. A member who enters terminal leave status is authorized BAH-I for the full period of termi-
   nal leave at the old PDS rate. Exceptions to this rule include:
       26.24.1.1. A member on an unaccompanied tour, with dependents in the U.S., who enters terminal
       leave from a PDS outside the U.S., is authorized BAH-I at the rate for the dependent’s location for
       the period of terminal leave.
       26.24.1.2. A member in the U.S., with dependents authorized by Secretarial determination to live
       away from the member’s PDS, who enters terminal leave status is authorized BAH-I at the rate for
       the dependents location for the period of the terminal leave.
       26.24.1.3. A member on an accompanied tour or a member without dependents, who returns to
       the U.S. for separation/retirement processing is authorized BAH-I at the rate for the separation
       activity. This rate continues for the period of terminal leave, starting with arrival at the separation
       activity. This also applies to members under the same circumstances, who are authorized BAH at
       the with-dependent rate because they are paying child support.
       26.24.1.4. A member who returns to the U.S. after completing separation/retirement processing
       OCONUS is authorized BAH-I for the leave address.
       26.24.1.5. A member who remains OCONUS is authorized OHA provided the member obtained
       private sector housing.

26.25. BAH Entitlement-Death of Member. When a member dies while on active duty, BAH may be
authorized on behalf of dependents for up to 365 days after the member’s death (paragraph 54.6.).

26.26. BAH Entitlement-Inadequate Quarters. Effective January 1, 2006, members assigned to inade-
quate quarters are paid BAH-I at the applicable with or without dependent rate; however, regardless of the
amount or type of BAH-I received, the fair rental charge will not exceed 75% of the BAH-I with-depen-
dent rate. NOTE: As a result, the fair rental charge may exceed the member’s actual BAH-I entitlement.

26.27. BAH Entitlement-Members of Reserve Components. Effective January 6, 2006, members of
the reserve components called to active duty, for other than contingency operations, and for more than 30
days are entitled to BAH-I at the rate prescribed for the location from which they are called to active duty
426                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


beginning on the first active duty day. A member called to active duty, for other than a contingency oper-
ation and for 30 days or less is entitled to BAH-RC

26.28. FSH-O and FSH-B. FSH-O/FSH-B is payable under the following conditions: adequate govern-
ment quarters are not available for the member’s assignment, the member’s dependents do not live at or
near the PDS and dependent travel was not authorized at government expense to the PDS or a nearby
location.
      26.28.1. DD Form 1561. The back of the DD Form 1561 may be used to provide required informa-
      tion and certificates as outlined within this paragraph. When using the back of the form, the member
      or FSO, notes on the front that data appears on the back. The FSO ensures one copy of the member’s
      signed tour election is attached when starting or continuing FSH-O/FSH-B.
         26.28.1.1. Member requests transportation of dependents before departure.
             26.28.1.1.1. Submit DD Form 1561, modified as appropriate, to substantiate payment of
             FSH-O/FSH-B when a member requests transportation of dependents before member’s depar-
             ture, and:
                 26.28.1.1.1.1. Request is approved but dependents do not travel with member, or
                 26.28.1.1.1.2. Member’s request is temporarily denied. File denial in management file for
                 future reference.
                    26.28.1.1.1.2.1. In the case of denial, the member indicates on the back of the form the
                    date of new application for transportation of dependents, or reason(s) why member has
                    not applied. FSO includes reason for, and date of, denial of member’s prior request.
                    26.28.1.1.1.2.2. When applicable, fully explain on back why delay in furnishing
                    dependents’ transportation exceeds 60 days from date of approval for entry.
         26.28.1.2. Temporary Absence of Dependents. If member maintained a common household with
         dependents before PCS or TDY, but all dependents were or are temporarily away from that resi-
         dence for vacation, hospitalization, to attend school, etc., member must furnish complete explana-
         tion. Include length of absence and whether member continued to maintain residence. If a sole
         dependent is in an institution, include a copy of the court order or appropriate medical statement
         showing that period in such institution is not expected to exceed one year.
         26.28.1.3. Dependents Visit Member receiving FSH-O/FSH-B. If a member is visited at the PDS
         by all dependents, member must certify date of their arrival, purpose, and expected length of visit.
         After they depart, member must certify date of departure and, if more than three months from date
         of their arrival, reason for extension of visit.
         26.28.1.4. Evacuation. When dependents are evacuated under provision of the JFTR U5246,
         officer directing the evacuation must certify that it was not caused by dependents’ misconduct in
         order for FSH-O/FSH-B to accrue.
         26.28.1.5. ERD. See paragraph 26-20.
         26.28.1.6. Overseas Separation. When a member separating overseas starts terminal leave within
         CONUS and it is questionable that the member will return to the point of separation, stop FSH-O.
         If the member returns, the FSO submits a 6503 to adjust member’s pay.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             427


   26.28.2. DD Form 114. When stopping FSH-O for a member who changes election to “with com-
   mand-sponsored dependents” after arrival at PDS, attach one copy of the Headquarters (HQ) United
   States Air Force (USAF) determination, that change of election is in the best interest of the Air Force.
   26.28.3. See JFTR, U10414 for further conditions of entitlement to FSH-O/FSH-B.

26.29. Advance Payment of BAH. An AF Form 1039 is prepared by the member to request an advance
payment of BAH.
   26.29.1. Conditions of Entitlement:
       26.29.1.1. An advance payment of BAH is payable upon request of a member when approved by
       the member's unit commander or the housing officer. The advance is paid to an eligible member
       to meet extraordinary expenses in obtaining or occupying other than Government housing.
       Extraordinary expenses include the following:
          26.29.1.1.1. Advance rent.
          26.29.1.1.2. Security deposits.
          26.29.1.1.3. Installation fees.
NOTE: Extraordinary "moving in" expenses should be reflected in applicable blocks 4a, 4b, and 4c of
AF Form 1039. Block 4d "other" should not be used.
       26.29.1.2. The purchase of personal property needed to occupy non-government housing may be
       authorized for an advance payment of BAH, but is limited to those items necessary for occupancy
       and must be reasonable in nature. The guide to be used to determine the amount of the advance a
       member may receive for the purchase of personal property is Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-6004,
       Attachment 8, plus major appliances. Attachment 8 lists the items that the government would fur-
       nish if the items were available or if government housing were assigned.
       26.29.1.3. Additional advances covering housing needs may be approved at any time for valid
       reasons as determined by the approving authority. Outstanding or unpaid advances remaining
       upon authorization of an additional advance may be added to the new advance amount and a new
       repayment schedule established.
       26.29.1.4. The amount of the advance must not exceed the anticipated housing expenses, or the
       total of three months BAH expected to be accrued by the member, whichever is less. When mak-
       ing determinations involving member to member marriage or other members sharing arrange-
       ments, the combined advance requests, allowances, and expenses of the occupants must be
       considered.
       26.29.1.5. Home Buyers. An advance for home purchase is limited to expenses anticipated or
       required for utilities and initial expense. It is not authorized for home purchases, a down payment
       toward buying a house, closing costs, upgrades or similar costs. Authorized expenses include
       costs for installing 220 volt electrical wiring necessary for stoves or clothes dryer and utility
       deposits required to acquire service.
   26.29.2. Disbursement of the Advance. Except in extenuating circumstances (determined by mem-
   ber's unit commander or designee), disbursement of the advance normally must not be made more
   than three workdays before the date payment must be made under a lease or rental agreement. For
   personnel at a duty location not having a local payment office, the advance may be paid earlier than
428                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      three days before lease or rental payment is due because of mail or transportation schedules. The dis-
      bursement must be made within 30-days after occupancy. This 30-day period allows a member suffi-
      cient time to move in and determine any extra cost associated with the new quarters that was not
      readily apparent before taking occupancy. When circumstances warrant, a waiver of the 30-day
      period may be approved by the unit commander upon written request from the member. The request
      must state the reason for the delayed advance and show that the funds are needed to meet advance
      rent, security deposits or initial expenses. Approved request is attached to the payment voucher.
      26.29.3. Repayment of the Advance:
         26.29.3.1. Repayment of the advance will usually be required in 12 equal monthly installments.
         When justified by the member and approved by the member’s commander, the payment may be
         extended beyond 12 months to preclude any undue hardship on the member. If a member is on a
         controlled tour, the repayment period may equal the tour length, but may not exceed it. If a mem-
         ber is not serving a controlled tour, the repayment period may not exceed 24 months. The member
         must provide an AF Form 2451, Financial Statement, to substantiate the hardship.
         26.29.3.2. In all cases, the repayment period must not exceed the member's DOS. When a lease
         is not completed for which an advance has previously been paid, the advance must be repaid in
         full immediately.
         26.29.3.3. Collection of the advance will begin on the first day of the month after payment of the
         advance has been made. When justified by the member and authorized by the member's com-
         manding officer or designee, start of collection action may be postponed for up to three months.
      26.29.4. The FSO uses AF Form 265, FSO Payment Authorization (JUMPS), to authorize payment
      for local payees (Figure 35.1.). The Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) payment request/authorization
      form will be used to authorize payments for central payees. The AF Form 1039 is attached to the orig-
      inal AF Form 265 or a copy of EFT payment request/authorization form depending on which one was
      used. For requests to extend repayment periods, made subsequent to the advance, the AF Form 1039
      is attached to the Document Transmittal Listing (DTL) for submission to the Federal Records Center
      as support for the request. Copies of the AF Form 1039 are distributed as follows:
         26.29.4.1. Original - attached to payment voucher/EFT form or DTL (as applicable).
         26.29.4.2. Second copy - member.
         26.29.4.3. Third copy - approving official.
         26.29.4.4. Fourth copy - FSO hold copy.
      26.29.5. Special actions required by the FSO:
         26.29.5.1. When a repayment postponement has been authorized by the member’s commander,
         the number of months delay is entered in the PA03 transaction.
         26.29.5.2. When a member receives an advance for dependent housing expenses and also for his
         or her housing expenses at an unaccompanied overseas location, the FSO must process a separate
         voucher and PA03 or JPBB for each advance. If delayed repayment is approved, include that
         information in the appropriate transactions. These transactions will send the member’s money to
         his or her bank account and report the payment on his or her MMPA systematically. Transactions
         in both cases (local and central payees) must reflect the proper ADV-PAY-CTGYS codes as con-
         tained in Attachment 4 of this manual.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            429


       26.29.5.3. The FSO at bases where a member has received an advance and dependents are resid-
       ing (member leaves family at old station for which an advance was received) while member is
       serving an unaccompanied tour overseas should be aware when such situations exist and make
       lump sum collection of any unpaid advance if member does not return to duty station where
       dependents are located upon completion of unaccompanied tour. Take lump sum collection action
       if notified that dependents change locations or if member is scheduled for separation prior to
       repayment of the advance.
       26.29.5.4. Review approved AF Form 1039 to ensure that the number of months approved for
       repayment will not exceed the member's tour length or date of separation (DOS). Review mem-
       ber's MMPA when receiving PCS notice or during out-processing and take necessary action to col-
       lect any unpaid advance prior to PCS or separation. For additional information on repayment
       schedules and extending or postponing collections, see JFTR, Volume I, chapter 8, and Table 31-1
       of this volume.

26.30. BAH Transaction Format Identifiers and Action Indicators. Transactions may be input by
member's servicing Input Station Identifier (ISI), TDY ISI, or losing ISI (if Date Departed Last Duty Sta-
tion (DDLDS) in the SH is within the last 35 days of DFAS-DE processing date). BAH is paid using com-
binations of the following FIDs: 35 (BAH-I, BAH-T, and BAH-RC, Figure 26.12. through Figure
26.17.), 36 (BAH-DIFF, Figure 26.18. through Figure 26.21.), 43 (OHA, Figure 30.4. and Figure 30.5.),
45 (FSH-O, Figure 30.8. and Figure 30.9.), 67 (FSH-B, Figure 26.22. through Figure 26.25.), and 68
(BAH-I, Figure 26.26. through 26.30.). The following Action Indicators can be used with these FIDs:
   26.30.1. START (01). Starts entitlement for an indefinite period
   26.30.2. STOP (02). Stops entitlement when a member becomes ineligible to receive entitlement.
   26.30.3. REPORT (03). Pays entitlement for a definite period with inclusive dates of entitlement.
   26.30.4. CHANGE (04). Changes any field(s) in the entitlement open-entry, which were formerly
   correct. This transaction is not used to correct erroneous entries, it should be used to merely update
   the member’s account as his/her dependency status or quarters assignment type changes.
   26.30.5. CORRECT (05). Corrects erroneous field(s) in the entitlement open entry.
   26.30.6. CANCEL (06). Cancels a prior start, stop, or report entitlement transaction and any subse-
   quent entries based on them.

26.31. BAH Management Notices and Leave and Earnings Statement (LES) Remarks. B A H a n d
BAH-DIFF automatically stop the day prior to the youngest child’s 21st birthday (BAH-Depen-
dency-Code = B, C, G, or W). In the case of a student (BAH-Dependency-Code S), BAH stops the day
prior to the youngest student’s 23rd birthday. Various management notices and LES remarks are pro-
duced to provide the FSO and the member advance notice that the entitlement is about to stop.
   26.31.1. BAH with-dependents. Three 35-suspense entries and one 35-future are created when a
   3501 is processed. These suspense entries generate management notices and LES remarks, and the
   future generates the stop action.
       26.31.1.1. XG06 (XG07 if student) is generated 90 days prior to the child’s/student’s birthday
       notifying the FSO that BAH will stop in 90 days if a 3604 is not received changing the birthday.
430                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         26.31.1.2. XG03 (XG08 if a student) is generated 30 days prior to the child’s/student’s birthday
         notifying the FSO that BAH will stop in 30 days if a 3604 is not received changing the birthday.
         (NOTE: There is not a Management Notice 60 days prior.)
         26.31.1.3. An LES remark is generated 30, 60, and 90 days prior to the child’s 21st birthday. The
         remark states “Child will reach 21 years of age in (30, 60, or 90) days; BAH stops day prior to
         child’s birthdate”.
         26.31.1.4. An LES remark is generated 30, 60, and 90 days prior to the student’s 23rd birthday.
         The remark states “Child will reach 23 years of age in (30, 60, or 90) days; BAH stops day prior
         to child’s birthdate”.
      26.31.2. BAH-DIFF. Three 36-suspense entries and one 36-future entry are created when a 3601 is
      processed. The suspense entries generate the following management notices and LES remarks, and
      the future generates the stop action.
         26.31.2.1. XG04 is generated 90 days prior to the child’s birthday notifying the FSO that BAH
         will stop in 90 days if a 3504 is not received changing the birthday.
         26.31.2.2. XG05 is generated 30 days prior to the child’s birthday notifying the FSO that BAH
         will stop in 30 days if a 3504 is not received changing the birthday. (NOTE: There is no Manage-
         ment Notice 60 days prior.)
         26.31.2.3. LES remarks are generated 30, 60, and 90 days prior to the child’s 21st birthday. The
         remark states “Child will reach 21 years of age in (30, 60, or 90) days; BAH stops day prior to
         child’s birthdate”.
      26.31.3. A 3602 or 3606 will delete all 36-suspense and 36-future entries on the MMPA when the
      transaction is processed.

26.32. BAH Closest Dependent Codes. The closest dependent codes for members receiving BAH are
defined as follows:
      26.32.1. Code A - Spouse.
      26.32.2. Code B – Child Support (now BAH-DIFF). Used on or before 4 December 1991. No longer
      used. Provided for historical purposes.
      26.32.3. Code C - Child in custody of member.
      26.32.4. Code D – Parent (secondary dependent).
      26.32.5. Code F - Stepchild. Used on or before 4 December 1991. No longer used. Provided for his-
      torical purposes.
      26.32.6. Code G – "Grandfathered" (paragraph 26-16).
      26.32.7. Code I - Member, married to another member, with no dependents.
      26.32.8. Code K - Ward of the court (secondary dependent).
      26.32.9. Code L - Parent-in-law (secondary dependent).
      26.32.10. Code Q - Adopted child. Used on or before 4 December 1991. No longer used. Provided
      for historical purposes.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          431


   26.32.11. Code R - Own Right or Partial BAH. Replaces “space” as closest dependency code.
   26.32.12. Code S - Student, age 21 or 22 (secondary dependent).
   26.32.13. Code T - Incapacitated child, over 21 years of age (secondary dependent).
   26.32.14. Code V - Illegitimate child. Used on or before 4 December 1991. No longer used. Pro-
   vided for historical purposes.
   26.32.15. Code W - Member, with a child, married to another member.
   26.32.16. Code X - Custodial parent receiving child support, whose divorce decree or written agree-
   ment was dated between 1 August 1991 and 30 June 1992. The member received BAQ at the with-
   out-dependent rate and VHA as a member with dependents. This code was used only until the divorce
   decree or written agreement was changed with an effective date after 30 June 1992. At the time of
   decree/agreement change, the custodial member became entitled to BAH-I as a member with depen-
   dents, closest dependency code C. Provided for historical purposes; code X should no longer be
   required.

26.33. Additional FSO Requirements. The FSO or designated representative must counsel all members
during in -processing and re-certification regarding when each member is entitled to BAH and the rate(s)
payable. The member must also be informed that:
   26.33.1. All members must immediately notify the FSO and MPF of all dependency status changes
   (marriage, divorce, child support, death, birth, quarters assignment/termination, etc.).
   26.33.2. Failure to support a dependent, on whose behalf BAH is claimed, will result in non-entitle-
   ment to BAH.
   26.33.3. A member is not entitled to BAH on behalf of a dependent whose whereabouts are unknown.
   26.33.4. A false claim or statement against the United States Government is punishable by court mar-
   tial. The penalty for willfully making a false statement or claim is a maximum of $10,000 or maxi-
   mum imprisonment of 5 years or both (18 U.S.C. 287). NOTE: If a member is uncertain about
   support requirements, the member should seek advise from the local Staff Judge Advocate.
432                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.1. AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic Allow-
ance for Quarters (BAQ) or Dependency Redetermination.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               433


Figure 26.2. DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation Allowance.
434                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.3. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              435


Figure 26.4. AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment of an Advance Housing
Allowance.
436                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.5. DFAS-DE Form 1856, Statement of Understanding Basic Allowance for Quarters –
Dependents.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              437


Figure 26.5 (Continued). DFAS-DE Form 1856, Statement of Understanding Basic Allowance for
Quarters – Dependents.
438                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.6. DFAS-DE Form 1863, Dependency Determinations Control Log.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                            439


Figure 26.7. Schedule of Annual BAH Secondary Dependent Re-Determinations.


      SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL BAH SECONDARY DEPENDENT RE-DETERMINATIONS


                                                                Secondary Dependent
     Last Digit                                                 Re-Determination
     of SSN is    Statements Mailed   LES Remarks Sent EOM      Due by the 15th of
     1            January             January                   February
     2            February            February                  March
     3            March               March                     April
     4            April               April                     May
     5            May                 May                       June
     6            June                June                      July
     7            July                July                      August
     8            August              August                    September
     9            September           September                 October
     0            October             October                   November
440                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.8. PCN: UH099C0471, Officer/Enlisted Dependency Discrepancies.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          441


Figure 26.9. UH099C081, Mil-Mil BAQ Same ADSN-Central Site Match.
442                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.10. AF Form 2429, Dependency Discrepancy Report.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                 443


Figure 26.11. Format to Start BAH.


I    TITLE               POS     ALLOWABLE               EDIT CRITERIA
T                                ENTRIES
E
M
1    Trailer Record      1       0
2    Format Identifier   2-3     35
3    Action Indicator    4-5     01
4    Member’s SSN        6-14
5    Member’s Last       15-19
     Name (1st Five
     Letters)
6    Effective Date      20-25   Valid date in           Must be valid date, and = or < current date
                                 YYMMDD format
7    Filler          26-31
8    Government      32          1-Assigned              Must be 1 or 2
     Quarters                    2-Not assigned
     Assignment Code
9    Government      33          0-Not applicable        If Item 8 = 2 must = 0; else must = 2, 3, or 4
     Quarters                    2-Inadequate quarters
     Adequacy Code
                                 3-Partial BAH
                                 4-UPH, entitled to
                                 BAH w/dependent
10 Number of      34             0-Without               If Item 9 = 3 must = 0
   Dependents BAH                dependents              If Item 9 = 4 must = 1
   Code                          1-With dependents
11   Closest BAH    35           See paragraph 26-33 If G, L, or S must = or > 911205
     Dependent Code                                      If Item 10 = 0 must = I, R or X
                                                         If Item 10 = 1 must = A, C, D, G, K, L, S, T or
                                                         W
                                                         If X, Item 6 must = or > 910801
444                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


I  TITLE              POS     ALLOWABLE          EDIT CRITERIA
T                             ENTRIES
E
M
12 Date of Birth of   36-41   Valid date in      If Item 11 = C, G, K, W or X must be valid
   Youngest Child             YYMMDD format      date,
                               or 000000          and = or < current date
                                                 If Item 11 = S must be valid date,
                                                  and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                  and > current date – 23 years
                                                 If Item 11 = T must be valid date,
                                                  and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                 If Item 11 = A, D, I, L or R must = 000000
13 Monthly           42-46    Numeric (left      If Item 9 = 2 must be > 0
   Percentage                 zero-fill as       If Item 9 = 0, 3, or 4 must = 000000
   Rental Fair Value          appropriate)
14 Filler            47-52
15 BAQ Rate          53       T-BAH-RC or        If T Item 6 must = or > 990101,
                              BAH-T               and Item 8 must = 2 or Item 9 must = 4
                              Space-All others
16 Filler             54-67
17 Common Data        68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   445


Figure 26.12. Format to Stop BAH.


I   TITLE               POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES               EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1   Trailer Record      1       0
2   Format Identifier   2-3     35
3   Action Indicator    4-5     02
4   Member’s SSN        6-14
5   Member’s Last       15-19
    Name (1st Five
    Letters)
6   Effective Date      20-25   Valid date in YYMMDD format Must be valid date, and = or <
                                                            current date
7   Filler          26-31
8   Government      32          0-Not assigned (use when reason Must be 0 or 1
    Quarters                    for stop is
    Assignment Code               other than assignment to
                                adequate quarters)
                                1-Assigned adequate quarters
9  Government           33      See Item 8                      If Item 8 = 0 must = 0
   Quarters                                                     If Item 8 – 1 must = 1
   Adequacy Code
10 Filler               34
11 Closest BAH          35      See paragraph 26-33
   Dependent Code
12 Filler               36-67
13 Common Data          68-80
446                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.13. Format to Report BAH.


I     TITLE               POS   ALLOWABLE ENTRIES EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1     Trailer Record      1     0
2     Format Identifier   2-3   35
3     Action Indicator    4-5   03
4     Member’s SSN        6-14
5     Member’s Last       15-19
      Name (1st Five
      Letters)
6     Date Start          20-25 Valid date in YYMMDD        Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                format                      date
7     Date Stop           26-31 Valid date in YYMMDD        Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                format                      date,
                                                             and = or . Item 6
8     Government      32        1-Assigned                  Must be 1 or 2
      Quarters                  2-Not assigned
      Assignment Code
9     Government      33        0-Not applicable            If Item 8 = 2 must = 0; else must = 2, 3,
      Quarters                                              or 4
                                2-Inadequate quarters
      Adequacy Code
                                3-Partial BAH
                                4-UPH, entitled to BAH w/
                                dependent
10 Number of      34            0-Without dependents        If Item 9 = 3 must = 0
   Dependents BAH               1-With dependents           If Item 9 = 4 must = 1
   Code
11 Closest BAH    35            See paragraph 26-33         If G, L, or S must = or > 911205
   Dependent Code                                           If Item 10 = 0 must = I, R or X
                                                            If Item 10 = 1 must = A, C, D, G, K, L,
                                                            S, T or W
                                                            If X, Item 6 must = or > 910801
                                                            If K, Item 6 must = or > 940701
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      447


I  TITLE              POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
12 Date of Birth of   36-41 Valid date in YYMMDD        If Item 11 = C, G, K, W or X must be
   Youngest Child           format                      valid date,
                               or 000000                 and = or < current date
                                                        If Item 11 = S must be valid date,
                                                         and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                         and > current date – 23 years
                                                        If Item 11 = T must be valid date,
                                                         and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                        If Item 11 = A, D, I, L or R must =
                                                        000000
13 Monthly           42-46 Numeric (left zero-fill as   If Item 9 = 2 must be > 0
   Percentage              appropriate)                 If Item 9 = 0, 3, or 4 must = 000000
   Rental Fair Value
14 BAQ AWOL/         47    1-Non Pay Status
   Excess Leave            2-Excess Leave
   Code
                           Space-All others
15 BAQ Input Rate 45-52 Numeric or spaces               If numeric must > 0; Else = spaces
                                                        If Item 14 = space must = spaces
                                                        If Item 14 = 1 or 2 must = numeric
15 BAQ Rate           53      T-BAH-RC or BAH-T         If T Item 6 must = or > 990101,
                              Space-All others           and Item 8 must = 2 or Item 9 must =
                                                        4
                                                        If Item 14 =1 or 2 must = T
16 Filler             54-67
17 Common Data        68-80
448                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.14. Format to Change BAH.


I     TITLE              POS   ALLOWABLE               EDIT CRITERIA
T                              ENTRIES
E
M
1     Trailer Record     1     0
2     Format             2-3   35
      Identifier
3     Action Indicator   4-5   04
4     Member’s SSN       6-14
5     Member’s Last      15-19
      Name (1st Five
      Letters)
6     Date Start         20-25 Valid date in           Must be valid date, and = or < current date
                               YYMMDD format
7     Date Stop          26-31 Zeros (System
                               generated)
8     Government         32    0-                      Must be 0, 1 or 2
      Quarters                 1-Assigned
      Assignment
      Code                     2-Not assigned
9     Government    33         0-Not applicable        If Item 8 = 2 must = 0
      Quarters                 1-Adequate quarters     If Item 8 = 1 must = 2, 3, or 4
      Adequacy Code
                               2-Inadequate quarters
                               3-Partial BAH
                               4-UPH, entitled to
                               BAH w/dependent
10 Number of      34           0-Without dependents If Item 9 = 3 must = 0
   Dependents                  1-With dependents       If Item 9 = 4 must = 1
   BAH Code
11 Closest BAH    35           See paragraph 26-33     If G, L, or S must = or > 911205
   Dependent Code                                      If Item 10 = 0 must = I, R or X
                                                       If Item 10 = 1 must = A, C, D, G, K, L, S, T
                                                       or W
                                                       If X, Item 6 must = or > 910801
                                                       If K, Item 6 must = or > 940701
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    449


I  TITLE            POS     ALLOWABLE            EDIT CRITERIA
T                           ENTRIES
E
M
12 Date of Birth of 36-41   Valid date in        If Item 11 = C, G, K, W or X must be valid
   Youngest Child           YYMMDD format        date,
                             or 000000            and = or < current date
                                                 If Item 11 = S must be valid date,
                                                  and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                  and > current date – 23 years
                                                 If Item 11 = T must be valid date,
                                                  and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                 If Item 11 = A, D, I, L or R must = 000000
13 Monthly         42-46 Numeric (left zero-fill If Item 9 = 2 must be > 0
   Percentage            as appropriate)         If Item 9 = 0, 3, or 4 must = 000000
   Rental Fair
   Value
14 Filler          47-52
15 BAQ Rate        53    T-Table Rate            If T Item 6 must = or > 990101,
                            Space-All others      and Item 8 must = 2 or Item 9 must = 4
16 Filler          54-67
17 Common Data     68-80
450                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.15. Format to Correct BAH.


I     TITLE               POS   ALLOWABLE              EDIT CRITERIA
T                               ENTRIES
E
M
1     Trailer Record      1     0
2     Format Identifier   2-3   35
3     Action Indicator    4-5   05
4     Member’s SSN        6-14
5     Member’s Last       15-19
      Name (1st Five
      Letters)
6     Start Date          20-25 Valid date in          Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                YYMMDD format or       date; Else 000000
                                000000
7     Stop Date           26-31 Valid date in          Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                YYMMDD format or       date; Else 000000
                                000000
8     Government          32    0-                     Must be 0, 1 or 2
      Quarters                  1-Assigned
      Assignment Code
                                2-Not assigned
9     Government          33    0-Not applicable      If Item 8 = 2 must = 0; else must = 2, 3,
      Quarters                  2-Inadequate quarters or 4
      Adequacy Code
                                3-Partial BAH
                                4-UPH, entitled to
                                BAH w/dependent
10 Number of      34            0-Without dependents If Item 9 = 3 must = 0
   Dependents BAH               1-With dependents      If Item 9 = 4 must = 1
   Code
11 Closest BAH    35            See paragraph 26-33    If G, L, or S must = or > 911205
   Dependent Code                                      If Item 10 = 0 must = I, R or X
                                                       If Item 10 = 1 must = A, C, D, G, K, L,
                                                       S, T or W
                                                       If X, Item 6 must = or > 910801
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  451


I  TITLE               POS     ALLOWABLE            EDIT CRITERIA
T                              ENTRIES
E
M
12 Date of Birth of    36-41 Valid date in          If Item 11 = C, G, K, W or X must be
   Youngest Child            YYMMDD format          valid date,
                                or 000000             and = or < current date
                                                    If Item 11 = S must be valid date,
                                                      and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                      and > current date – 23 years
                                                    If Item 11 = T must be valid date,
                                                      and = or < current date – 21 years
                                                   If Item 11 = A, D, I, L or R must =
                                                   000000
13 Monthly           42-46 Numeric (left zero-fill If Item 9 = 2 must be > 0
   Percentage Rental       as appropriate)         If Item 9 = 0, 3, 0r 4 must = 000000
   Fair Value
14 Filler            47-52
15 BAQ Rate          53    T-BAH-RC or BAH-T If T Item 6 must = or > 990101,
                               Space-All others      and Item 8 must = 2 or Item 9 must =
                                                    4
16 Filler              54-55
17 Prior Date Start    56-61 Valid date in    If valid date must be = or < current
                             YYMMDD format or date
                             000000           If valid date Item 6 must = valid date
                                                    If Item 18 = 000000 must = valid date
                                              If 000000, Item 6 must = 000000
18 Prior Date Stop     62-67 Valid date in    If valid date must be = or < current
                             YYMMDD format or date
                             000000           If valid date Item 7 must = valid date
                                                    If Item 17 = 000000 must = valid date
                                                    If 000000, Item 7 must = 000000
19 Common Data         68-80
452                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.16. Format to Cancel BAH.


I     TITLE               POS     ALLOWABLE              EDIT CRITERIA
T                                 ENTRIES
E
M
1     Trailer Record      1       0
2     Format Identifier   2-3     35
3     Action Indicator    4-5     06
4     Member’s SSN        6-14
5     Member’s Last       15-19
      Name (1st Five
      Letters)
6     Date Start          20-25   Valid date in YYMMDD   Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                  format or 000000       date; Else 000000
                                                         If Item 7 = 000000 must be valid date
7     Date Stop           26-31   Valid date in YYMMDD   Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                  format or 000000       date,
                                                          and = or > Item 6; Else 000000
                                                         If Item 8 = 000000 must be valid date
8     Filler              32-67
9     Common Data         68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             453


Figure 26.17. Formats to Start BAH-DIFF and Stop BAH-DIFF.


I    TITLE               POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES            EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1    Trailer Record      1       0
2    Format Identifier   2-3     36
3    Action Indicator    4-5     01
4    Member’s SSN        6-14
5    Member’s Last       15-19
     Name (1st Five
     Letters)
6    Effective Date      20-25   Valid date in YYMMDD         Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                 format                       date,
                                                               and > 911204
7    Filler          26-31
8    Government      32          1-Assigned                   Must be 1 or 2
     Quarters                    2-Not assigned
     Assignment Code
9    Closest BAH     33          B-BAH-DIFF (use FID 35       If = space, system generates B
     Dependent Code              for entitlement prior to
                                 911204)
10 Date of Birth of      34-39   Valid date in YYMMDD         Must be valid date, and = or < current
   Youngest Child                format                       date,
                                  or 000000                    and = or < Item 6,
                                                               and = or > current date – 21 years
11 Monthly Support 40-46         Numeric (left zero-fill as   Must be > 0
   Payment                       appropriate)
12 Filler          47-67
13 Common Data     68-80
454                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



I     TITLE               POS     ALLOWABLE              EDIT CRITERIA
T                                 ENTRIES
E
M
1     Trailer Record      1       0
2     Format Identifier   2-3     36
3     Action Indicator    4-5     02
4     Member’s SSN        6-14
5     Member’s Last       15-19
      Name (1st Five
      Letters)
6     Effective Date      20-25   Valid date in YYMMDD   Must be valid date, and = or < current
                                  format                 date
7     Filler              26-67
8     Common Data         68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         455



I    TITLE                 POS     ALLOWABLE                    EDIT CRITERIA
T                                  ENTRIES
E
M
1    Trailer Record        1       0
2    Format Identifier     2-3     36
3    Action Indicator      4-5     03
4    Member’s SSN          6-14
5    Member’s Last Name    15-19
     (1st Five Letters)
6    Date Start            20-25   Valid date in YYMMDD         Must be valid date, and = or <
                                   format                       current date,
                                                                 and > 911204
7    Date Stop             26-31   Valid date in YYMMDD         Must be valid date, and = or <
                                   format                       current date,
                                                                 and = or > Item 6
8    Government Quarters   32      1-Assigned                   Must be 1 or 2
     Assignment Code               2-Not assigned
9    Closest BAH           33      B-BAH-DIFF (use FID 35 If = space, system generates B
     Dependent Code                for entitlement prior to
                                   911204)
10 Date of Birth of        34-39   Valid date in YYMMDD Must be valid date, and = or <
   Youngest Child                  format                   current date,
                                    or 000000                    and = or < Item 6,
                                                                 and = or > current date – 21
                                                                years
11 Monthly Support         40-46   Numeric (left zero-fill as   Must be > 0
   Payment                         appropriate)
12 BAQ AWOL/Excess         47      Space                        Must be 1, 2 or space
   Leave Code                      1-Non-pay status
                                   2-Excess leave
13 BAQ Input Rate          48-52   Numeric (left zero-fill as   Must be numeric or spaces
                                   appropriate) or spaces
                                                                If Item 12 = space, must = space
                                                                If Item 12 = 1 or 2, must be
                                                                numeric
                                                                If numeric must be > 0
456                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


I  TITLE         POS     ALLOWABLE   EDIT CRITERIA
T                        ENTRIES
E
M
14 Filler        53-67
15 Common Data   68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    457


Figure 26.18. Formats to Report and Change BAH-DIFF.


I    TITLE                 POS     ALLOWABLE                 EDIT CRITERIA
T                                  ENTRIES
E
M
1    Trailer Record        1       0
2    Format Identifier     2-3     36
3    Action Indicator      4-5     04
4    Member’s SSN          6-14
5    Member’s Last Name    15-19
     (1st Five Letters)
6    Date Start            20-25   Valid date in YYMMDD Must be valid date, and = or <
                                   format               current date, and > 911204
7    Filler                26-31
8    Government Quarters   32      1-Assigned                Must be 1 or 2
     Assignment Code               2-Not assigned
9    Closest BAH           33      B-BAH-DIFF (use FID If = space, system generates B
     Dependent Code                35 for entitlement prior
                                   to 911204)
10 Date of Birth of        34-39   Valid date in YYMMDD Must be valid date, and = or <
   Youngest Child                  format                   current date,
                                    or 000000                 and = or < Item 6,
                                                               and = or > current date – 21
                                                              years
11 Monthly Support         40-46   Numeric (left zero-fill as Must be > 0
   Payment                         appropriate)
12 Filler                  47-67
13 Common Data             68-80
458                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.19. Format to correct BAH-DIFF.


I     TITLE                POS    ALLOWABLE ENTRIES            EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1     Trailer Record       1     0
2     Format Identifier    2-3   36
3     Action Indicator     4-5   05
4     Member’s SSN         6-14
5     Member’s Last Name   15-19
      (1st Five Letters)
6     Date Start           20-25 Valid date in YYMMDD          Must be valid date or 000000
                                 format or 000000              If valid date must = or < current
                                                               date,
                                                                and > 911204
                                                               If Item 7 = 000000 must = valid
                                                               date
7     Date Stop            26-31 Valid date in YYMMDD          Must be valid date or 000000
                                 format or 000000              If valid date must = or < current
                                                               date,
                                                                and > 911204
                                                               If valid date and Item 6= valid
                                                               date, must be = or > Item 6
                                                               If Item 6 = 000000 must = valid
                                                               date
8     Government Quarters 32      1-Assigned                   Must be 1 or 2
      Assignment Code            2-Not assigned
9  Closest BAH             33    B-BAH-DIFF (use FID 35 for If = space, system generates B
   Dependent Code                entitlement prior to 911204)
10 Date of Birth of        34-39 Valid date in YYMMDD         Must be valid date, and = or <
   Youngest Child                format                       current date,
                                   or 000000                     and = or > current date – 21
                                                               years
11 Monthly Support         40-46 Numeric (left zero-fill as    Must be = or > 0
   Payment                       appropriate)
12 Filler                  47-55
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              459


I  TITLE              POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES    EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
13 Prior Date Start   56-61 Valid date in YYMMDD   Must be valid date or 000000
                            format                 If valid date, must be = or <
                              or 000000            current date
                                                   If valid date, Item 6 must = valid
                                                   date
                                                   If valid date and Item 14 = valid
                                                   date,
                                                    must be = or < Item 14
                                                   IF 000000, Item 6 must = valid
                                                   date
                                                   IF Item 14 = 000000, must be
                                                   valid date
14 Prior Date Stop    62-67 Valid date in YYMMDD   Must be valid date or 000000
                            format                 If valid date, must be = or <
                              or 000000            current date
                                                   If valid date, Item 7 must = valid
                                                   date
                                                   If valid date and Item 13 = valid
                                                   date,
                                                    must be = or > Item 13
                                                   IF 000000, Item 7 must = valid
                                                   date
                                                   IF Item 13 = 000000, must be
                                                   valid date
15 Common Data        68-80
460                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.20. Format to Cancel BAH-DIFF.


I     TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE               EDIT CRITERIA
T                                  ENTRIES
E
M
1     Trailer Record       1       0
2     Format Identifier    2-3     36
3     Action Indicator     4-5     06
4     Member’s SSN         6-14
5     Member’s Last Name   15-19
      (1st Five Letters)
6     Date Start           20-25   Valid date in YYMMDD Must be valid date or 000000
                                   format or 000000     If valid date must = or < current
                                                        date,
                                                            and > 911204
                                                        If Item 7 = 000000 must = valid
                                                        date
7     Date Stop            26-31   Valid date in YYMMDD Must be valid date or 000000
                                   format or 000000     If valid date must = or < current
                                                           date,
                                                            and > 911204
                                                           If valid date and Item 6 = valid
                                                           date, must be = or > Item 6
                                                           If Item 6 = 000000 must = valid
                                                           date
8     Filler               32-67
9     Common Data          68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     461


Figure 26.21. Formats to Start and Stop FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA).


I    TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                       EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1    Trailer Record       1       0
2    Format Identifier    2-3     67
3    Action Indicator     4-5     01
4    Member’s SSN         6-14
5    Member’s Last Name   15-19
     (1st Five Letters)
6    Effective Date       20-25   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format             Must be valid date, and
                                                                          = or < current date
7    Filler               26-31
8    Zip Code             32-36   00601 through 99950                     Must be valid Zip Code
9    Filler               37
10   Accompanied Status   38      0-BAH-I Without Dependent               If = space system
                                                                          generates 0
11 Rent Paid              39-44   Numeric (Left zero-fill as appropriate)
12 Share Number           45      1-Not Sharing                           Must be > 0 and = 1, 2,
                                                                          3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
                                  2-Sharing with one other military
                                  member
                                  3-Sharing with two other military
                                  members
                                  4-Sharing with three other military
                                  members, etc.
                                  5-9
13 Rent Status            46      R-Renting
                                  H-Homeowner
14 Filler                 47-67
15 Common Data            68-80
462                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



I     TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES             EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1     Trailer Record       1       0
2     Format Identifier    2-3     67
3     Action Indicator     4-5     02
4     Member’s SSN         6-14
5     Member’s Last Name   15-19
      (1st Five Letters)
6     Effective Date       20-25   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format   Must be valid date, and
                                                                 = or < current date
7     Filler               26-67
8     Common Data
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       463


Figure 26.22. Formats to Report and Change FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA).


I   TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                         EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1   Trailer Record       1       0
2   Format Identifier    2-3     67
3   Action Indicator     4-5     03
4   Member’s SSN         6-14
5   Member’s Last Name   15-19
    (1st Five Letters)
6   Date Start           20-25   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format               Must be valid date, and
                                                                           = or < current date
7   Date Stop            26-31   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format               Must be valid date,
                                                                            and = or < current date
                                                                            and = or > Item 6
8 Zip Code            32-36      00601 through 99950                       Must be valid Zip Code
9 Filler              37
10 Accompanied Status 38         0-BAH-I Without Dependent                 If = space system
                                                                           generates 0
11 Rent Paid             39-44   Numeric (Left zero-fill as appropriate)
12 Share Number          45      1-Not Sharing                             Must be > 0 and = 1, 2,
                                                                           3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
                                 2-Sharing with one other military
                                 member
                                 3-Sharing with two other military
                                 members
                                 4-Sharing with three other military
                                 members, etc.
                                 5-9
13 Rent Status           46      R-Renting
                                 H-Homeowner
14 Filler                47-67
15 Common Data           68-80
464                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.22 (Continued). Formats to Report and Change FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA).


I     TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                      EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1     Trailer Record       1       0
2     Format Identifier    2-3     67
3     Action Indicator     4-5     04
4     Member’s SSN         6-14
5     Member’s Last Name   15-19
      (1st Five Letters)
6     Date Start           20-25   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format            Must be valid date, and
                                                                          = or < current date
7     Filler               26-31
8     Zip Code             32-36   00601 through 99950                    Must be valid Zip Code
9     Filler               37
10    Accompanied Status   38      0-BAH-I Without Dependent              If = space system
                                                                          generates 0
11 Rent Paid               39-44   Numeric (Left zero-fill as appropriate)
12 Share Number            45      1-Not Sharing                           Must be > 0 and = 1, 2,
                                                                           3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
                                   2-Sharing with one other military
                                   member
                                   3-Sharing with two other military
                                   members
                                   4-Sharing with three other military
                                   members, etc.
                                   5-9
13 Rent Status             46      R-Renting
                                   H-Homeowner
14 Filler                  47-67
15 Common Data             68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       465


Figure 26.23. Format to Correct FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA).


I   TITLE            POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                         EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1   Trailer Record   1       0
2   Format           2-3     67
    Identifier
3   Action           4-5     05
    Indicator
4   Member’s         6-14
    SSN
5   Member’s Last    15-19
    Name (1st Five
    Letters)
6   Date Start       20-25   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or 000000 Must = 000000 or valid date,
                                                                        If valid date must be = or <
                                                                         current date
                                                                   If Item 7 = 000000 must =
                                                                   valid date
7   Date Stop        26-31   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or 000000 Must = 000000 or valid date,
                                                                       If valid date must be = or <
                                                                        current date,
                                                                        and be = or > Item 6
                                                                       If Item 6 = 000000,
                                                                        must = valid date
8   Zip Code         32-36   00601 through 99950                       Must be valid Zip Code
9 Filler       37
10 Accompanied 38            0-BAH-I Without Dependent                 If = space system generates 0
   Status
11 Rent Paid   39-44         Numeric (Left zero-fill as appropriate)
466                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


I  TITLE        POS      ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                           EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
12 Share Number 45       1-Not Sharing                               Must be > 0 and = 1, 2, 3, 4,
                                                                     5, 6, 7, 8, 9
                         2-Sharing with one other military member
                         3-Sharing with two other military members
                         4-Sharing with three other military
                         members, etc.
                         5-9
13 Rent Status   46      R-Renting
                         H-Homeowner
14 Filler        47-55
15 Prior Date    56-61   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format of 000000 Must = 000000 or valid date,
   Start                                                             If valid date must = or <
                                                                     current date
                                                                     If Item 6 = 000000, must =
                                                                     000000
                                                               If Item 6 = valid date, must =
                                                               valid date
16 Prior Date    62-67   Valid Date in YYMMDD Format of 000000 Must = 000000 or valid date,
   Stop                                                              IF valid date must = or <
                                                                     current date
                                                                      and = or > Item 18
                                                                     If Item 7 = 000000 must =
                                                                     000000
                                                                     If Item 7 = valid date, must =
                                                                     valid date
17 Common Data 68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    467


Figure 26.24. Format to Cancel FSH-B (formerly Dual VHA).


I   TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE              EDIT CRITERIA
T                                ENTRIES
E
M
1   Trailer Record       1     0
2   Format Identifier    2-3   67
3   Action Indicator     4-5   06
4   Member’s SSN         6-14
5   Member’s Last Name   15-19
    (1st Five Letters)
6   Date Start           20-25 Valid Date in YYMMDD     Must = 000000 o r valid date, If
                               Format Or 000000         valid date must = or < current date
                                                        If Item 7 = 000000 must = valid
                                                        date
7   Date Stop            26-31 Valid Date in YYMMDD     Must = 000000 or valid date,
                               Format Or 000000         If valid date must = or < current
                                                        date and = or > Item 6
                                                        If Item 6 = 000000 must = valid
                                                        date
8   Filler               26-67
9   Common Data          68-80
468                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.25. Formats to Start or Stop BAH-I (formerly VHA).


I     TITLE                POS    ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                        EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1     Trailer Record       1     0
2     Format Identifier    2-3   68
3     Action Indicator     4-5   01
4     Member’s SSN         6-14
5     Member’s Last Name   15-19
      (1st Five Letters)
6     Effective Date       20-25 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format               Must be valid date, and
                                                                           = or < current date
                                                                           (cc 24-25 must be
                                                                           01-30)
7     Filler               26-31
8     Zip Code             32-36 00601 through 99950                       Must be valid Zip Code
9     Filler               37
10    Accompanied Status   38    0-BAH-I Without Dependent
                                 1-BAH-I With Dependent
11 Rent Paid               39-44 Numeric (left zero-fill as appropriate)
12 Share Number            45    1-Not Sharing                             Must be > 0 and = 1, 2,
                                                                           3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
                                  2-Sharing with one other military
                                  member
                                  3-Sharing with two other military
                                  members
                                  4-Sharing with three other military
                                  members, etc.
                                  5-9
13 Rent Status             46     R-Renting
                             H-Homeowner
14 Military Spouse Pay 47-48 Spaces, 00, 01-10, 21-25, 31-39               IF = spaces system
   Grade                                                                   generates 00
                             (Left zero-fill as appropriate)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   469


I  TITLE                 POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                   EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
15 Military Spouse       49      Space                               If = space system
   Location                                                          generates 0
                                 0
                                 1
16 Military Spouse       50      0                                   If = space system
   BAQ Rate                                                          generates 0
                                 1
                                 2
17 Filler                51-67
18 Common Data           68-80


Figure 26.25. (Continued). Formats to Start or Stop BAH-I (formerly VHA).


I   TITLE                 POS        ALLOWABLE ENTRIES        EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1   Trailer Record        1     0
2   Format Identifier     2-3   68
3   Action Indicator      4-5   02
4   Member’s SSN          6-14
5   Member’s Last Name    15-19
    (1st Five Letters)
6   Effective Date        20-25 Valid Date in YYMMDD          Must be valid date, and = or
                                Format                        < current date
7   Filler                26-67
8   Common Data           68-80
470                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.26. Format to Report BAH-I (formerly VHA).


I     TITLE                POS    ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                         EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1     Trailer Record       1     0
2     Format Identifier    2-3   68
3     Action Indicator     4-5   03
4     Member’s SSN         6-14
5     Member’s Last Name   15-19
      (1st Five Letters)
6     Date Start           20-25 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format                Must be valid date,
                                                                            and = or < current date
7     Date Stop            26-31 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format                Must be valid date,
                                                                             and = or < current date
                                                                             and = or > Item 6
8 Zip Code                 32-36 00601 through 99950                        Must be valid Zip Code
9 Filler                   37
10 Accompanied Status      38    0-BAH-I Without Dependent
                                 1-BAH-I With Dependent
11 Rent Paid               39-44 Numeric (left zero-fill as appropriate)
12 Share Number            45    1-Not Sharing                             Must be > 0 and = 1, 2,
                                  2-Sharing with one other military member 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
                                  3-Sharing with two other military
                                  members
                                  4-Sharing with three other military
                                  members, etc.
                                  5-9
13 Rent Status             46     R-Renting
                                 H-Homeowner
14 Military Spouse Pay     47-48 Spaces, 00, 01-10, 21-25, 31-39            IF = spaces system
   Grade                                                                    generates 00
                                  (Left zero-fill as appropriate)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               471


I  TITLE                 POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES   EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
15 Military Spouse       49      Space               If = space system
   Location                                          generates 0
                                 0
                                 1
16 Military Spouse BAQ   50      0                   If = space system
   Rate                                              generates 0
                                 1
                                 2
17 Filler                51-67
18 Common Data           68-80
472                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 26.27. Format to Change BAH-I (formerly VHA).


I     TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                       EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1     Trailer Record       1     0
2     Format Identifier    2-3   68
3     Action Indicator     4-5   04
4     Member’s SSN         6-14
5     Member’s Last Name   15-19
      (1st Five Letters)
6     Effective Date       20-25 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format               Must be valid date, and
                                                                           = or < current date
7     Filler               26-31
8     Zip Code             32-36 00601 through 99950                       Must be valid Zip Code
9     Filler               37
10    Accompanied Status   38    0-BAH-I Without Dependent
                                 1-BAH-I With Dependent
11 Rent Paid               39-44 Numeric (left zero-fill as appropriate)
12 Share Number            45    1-Not Sharing                             Must be > 0 and = 1, 2,
                                                                           3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
                                   2-Sharing with one other military
                                   member
                                   3-Sharing with two other military
                                   members
                                   4-Sharing with three other military
                                   members, etc.
                                   5-9
13 Rent Status             46      R-Renting
                                   H-Homeowner
14 Filler                  47-67
15 Common Data             68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         473


Figure 26.28. Format to Correct BAH-I (formerly VHA).


I   TITLE               POS    ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                       EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1   Trailer Record      1     0
2   Format Identifier   2-3   68
3   Action Indicator    4-5   05
4   Member’s SSN        6-14
5   Member’s Last       15-19
    Name (1st Five
    Letters)
6   Date Start          20-25 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or           Must be valid date,
                              000000                                    and = or < current date
                                                                       If Item 7 = 000000 must = valid
                                                                       date
7   Date Stop           26-31 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or           Must be valid date,
                              000000                                    and = or < current date
                                                                        and = or > Item 6
                                                                       If Item 6 = 000000 must = valid
                                                                       date
8 Zip Code              32-36 00601 through 99950                      Must be valid Zip Code
9 Filler                37
10 Accompanied          38    0-BAH-I Without Dependent
   Status                     1-BAH-I With Dependent
11 Rent Paid            39-44 Numeric (left zero-fill as appropriate)
12 Share Number         45    1-Not Sharing                           Must be > 0 and = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
                                                                      6, 7, 8, 9
                              2-Sharing with one other military
                               member
                               3-Sharing with two other military
                               members
                               4-Sharing with three other military
                               members, etc.
                               5-9
474                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


I  TITLE              POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES                    EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
13 Rent Status        46      R-Renting
                            H-Homeowner
14 Military Spouse    47-48 Spaces, 00, 01-10, 21-25, 31-39        IF = spaces system generates
   Pay Grade                                                       00
                              (Left zero-fill as appropriate)
15 Military Spouse    49      Space                                If = space system generates 0
   Location                   0
                              1
16 Military Spouse    50      0                                    If = space system generates 0
   BAQ Rate                   1
                              2
17 Filler             51-55
18 Prior Date Start   56-61 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or         Must = 000000 or valid date
                            000000                                 If valid date must = or < current
                                                                   date
                                                                   If Item 6 = 000000 must =
                                                                   000000
                                                                   If Item 6 = valid date must =
                                                                   valid date
19 Prior Date Stop    62-67 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or         Must = 000000 or valid date
                            000000                                 If valid date must = or < current
                                                                   date and = or > Item 18
                                                                   If Item 7 = 000000 must =
                                                                   000000
                                                                   If Item 7 = valid date must =
                                                                   valid date
20 Common Data        68-80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                475


Figure 26.29. Format to Cancel BAH-I (formerly VHA).


I   TITLE                POS     ALLOWABLE ENTRIES              EDIT CRITERIA
T
E
M
1   Trailer Record       1     0
2   Format Identifier    2-3   68
3   Action Indicator     4-5   06
4   Member’s SSN         6-14
5   Member’s Last Name   15-19
    (1st Five Letters)
6   Date Start           20-25 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or Must be valid date,
                               000000                         and = or < current date
                                                              If Item 7 = 000000 must
                                                              = valid date
7   Date Stop            26-31 Valid Date in YYMMDD Format Or Must be valid date,
                               000000                          and = or < current date
                                                                 and = or > Item 6
                                                                If Item 6 = 000000 must
                                                                = valid date
8   Filler               26-67
9   Common Data          68-80
476                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 27

                             FAMILY SEPARATION ALLOWANCE (FSA)

27.1. Description. Entitlement provisions and types are contained in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter
27.

27.2. Substantiating Documents:
      27.2.1. Member is required to complete DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family
      Separation Allowance (Figure 27.1.).
      27.2.2. FSO personnel complete certifying officer portion of the DD Form 1561, based on review of
      the required evidence. Attach copies of documentation as indicated below. Include or annotate, in the
      certifying officer's signature block of the DD Form 1561, the voucher number, voucher date and
      DSSN. Delays of more than 24 hours at port of departure such as passport hold, early arrival, etc.,
      should be considered when computing the effective start date. DD Form 1561 is submitted with the
      normal document submission to DFAS-DE/PMLR (See Chapter 2). There are three types of FSA:
      FSA-R, FSA-S, and FSA-T. Payment of each type requires specific evidence attached to the DD
      Form 1561.
         27.2.2.1. FSA-R.
             27.2.2.1.1. Members with dependents. Transportation of dependents is not authorized at gov-
             ernment expense and the dependents do not live at or near the member's PDS. Attach a copy
             of the member's PCS order and travel voucher (DD form 1351-2). See paragraph 27.5. for
             additional guidance pertaining to FSA-R.
             27.2.2.1.2. Member married to another member, no dependents. Generally, a member married
             to another member with no other dependents is entitled to FSA-R under the same conditions as
             a member with dependents. The members must have resided together immediately before
             being separated and the separation must be a result of execution of military orders.
                 27.2.2.1.2.1. Not more than 1 monthly allowance may be paid for any one month. Both
                 may be entitled during the same month, but only one may be paid at a time. Payment will
                 be made to the member whose orders resulted in the separation. If both members receive
                 orders requiring departure on the same day, the entitlement goes to the senior member.
                 27.2.2.1.2.2. In cases where both members meet entitlement criteria, the second spouse
                 may receive the entitlement upon termination of the original spouse’s entitlement. The
                 couple may qualify for sequential entitlement to FSA-R provided their orders keep them
                 continuously separated.
                 27.2.2.1.2.3. In order to qualify for a subsequent entitlement to FSA-R, a member to mem-
                 ber couple must, once they are no longer separated by orders, reestablish a joint residence.
         27.2.2.2. FSA-S. The member is on duty aboard a ship, away from the home port of the ship, con-
         tinuously for more than 30 days.
         27.2.2.3. FSA-T. The member is on TDY away from the PDS continuously for more than 30
         days, and the dependents do not reside at or near the TDY station. This includes members who are
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            477


       required to perform a period of TDY before reporting to their initial station of assignment.
       Review the member's travel order to determine location and days of TDY.
   27.2.3. To stop FSA, other than at permanent change of station (PCS) departure, use DD Form 114,
   Military Pay Order (Figure 27.2.). Submit the original to DFAS-DE in accordance with Chapter 2.

27.3. Transportation of Dependents. Member requests transportation of dependents before departure.
Submit DD Form 1561, modified as appropriate, to substantiate payment of FSA when a member requests
transportation of dependents before member's departure, and:
   27.3.1. Request is approved but dependents do not travel with member, or
   27.3.2. Member's request is temporarily denied. File denial in management file for future reference.
       27.3.2.1. In case of denial, member indicates on DD Form 1561 the date of new application for
       transportation of dependents, or reason(s) why member has not applied. FSO includes reason for,
       and date of, denial of member's prior request. When applicable, fully explain on reverse why
       delay in furnishing dependents' transportation exceeds 60 days from date of approval for entry.
       When using reverse of DD Form 1561, note on face of form that data appears on reverse.

27.4. Elections and Reelections. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, tables 27-1 and 27-4.
   27.4.1. DD Form 1561. Attach one copy of member's signed election to serve "all others" overseas
   tour to DD Form 1561 starting or continuing FSA credit.
   27.4.2. DD Form 114. When stopping FSA credit for a member who changes election to "with com-
   mand-sponsored dependents" after arrival at permanent duty station, attach one copy of the HQ USAF
   determination, that change of election is in the best interest of the Air Force, to the DD Form 114.
   27.4.3. Certificates Required. Reverse of DD Form 1561 may be used for certificates.
       27.4.3.1. Member maintained common household with dependents before PCS or TDY but
       dependents were temporarily absent. If member maintained a common household with depen-
       dents before PCS or TDY, but all dependents were or are temporarily away from that residence for
       vacation, hospitalization, to attend school, etc., member must furnish complete explanation.
       Include length of absence and whether member continued to maintain residence. If a sole depen-
       dent is in an institution, include a copy of court order or appropriate medical statement showing
       that period in such institution is not expected to exceed 1 year. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chap-
       ter 27, for further conditions of entitlement to FSA.
       27.4.3.2. Member receiving FSA away from permanent station more than 60 days. If a member
       receiving FSA is away from permanent station for more than 60 days in a TDY, hospital, leave, or
       confined status, member must certify period (inclusive dates) he or she continued to maintain pri-
       vate quarters at permanent station while away. NOTE: FSO may require additional documents,
       such as rent receipts, in questionable cases.
       27.4.3.3. Member receiving FSA-I or FSA-II (PCS) visited at permanent station by dependents.
       If a member receiving FSA-I or FSA-II (FSA-R) is visited at the permanent station by all depen-
       dents, member must certify date of their arrival, purpose, and expected length of visit. After they
       depart, member must certify date of departure and, if more than 3 months from date of their
       arrival, reason for extension of visit.
478                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         27.4.3.4. Member entitled to FSA-II (TDY) and dependents visit at TDY station for 30 days or
         less. If member is otherwise entitled to FSA-II (FSA-T) and all dependents visit at TDY station
         for 30 days or less, member must certify date of their arrival, departure, and that they were merely
         visiting with no intent to establish a residence.
         27.4.3.5. Advance Return of Dependents. When dependents are evacuated under provisions of
         the JFTR, paragraph U5246, officer directing the evacuation must certify that it was not caused by
         dependents' misconduct in order for FSA entitlement to accrue.
         27.4.3.6. Overseas Separation. When a member separating overseas starts terminal leave in
         CONUS and it is questionable that member will return to point of separation, stop FSA. If mem-
         ber returns, submit a report transaction to adjust member's pay.
         27.4.3.7. Members in a Pipeline Status. Effective 1 Oct 1980, basic trainees and students at a
         technical training school are entitled to FSA if:
             27.4.3.7.1. They are members with dependents.
             27.4.3.7.2. Dependents are not permitted to travel at Government expense.
             27.4.3.7.3. Dependents do not live at or near the member's training center.
         27.4.3.8. Members entitled to FSA not associated with a PCS move. When a member acquires a
         dependent not associated with a PCS move, the certifying officer must certify that member quali-
         fies for the FSA entitlement by stating the reason such as "member was married on ____________
         (date) while on leave" or other pertinent statement that is applicable. Place certification statement
         on the reverse of DD Form 1561. Annotate in Part II "not applicable, see reverse." If member
         acquires dependents while on leave, FSA entitlement does not start until the day the member
         returns to his or her PDS.

27.5. FSA-R:
      27.5.1. In the case where a member:
         27.5.1.1. acquires a dependent after the effective date of PCS orders (but before member's date of
         departure on subsequent PCS orders),
         27.5.1.2. is not authorized government transportation for the dependent,
         27.5.1.3. and the dependent does not live at or near the member's permanent duty station, the
         member's entitlement to FSA starts on the date the member acquires the dependent.
      27.5.2. Effective January 1, 2002, when transportation of dependents is authorized at government
      expense, but the member elects an unaccompanied tour because a dependent cannot accompany the
      member due to certified medical reasons, member is entitled to FSA-R. Secretarial waivers are not
      needed when documentation of certified medical reasons is provided, regardless of the date on which
      the member first made the election to serve an unaccompanied tour. Prior to January 1, 2002, FSA-R
      was payable in this situation only pursuant to a secretarial waiver (see DoDFMR, Vol 7A, subpara-
      graph 270301.d).

27.6. FSA-T. The FSA start transaction (6501) was modified for processing FSA-T. This transaction
will suspend the start of payment for 30 days after the effective start date and only applies for FSA-T for
a TDY over 30 days. The following procedures will be used when processing a 6501-T.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                479


   27.6.1. Using the member’s TDY orders as authority and backup documentation, the member will
   certify DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of FSA prior to departure.
   27.6.2. Process a 6501-T effective the departure date obtained from the TDY orders.
   27.6.3. DJMS-AC will recycle the transaction and create a futures and release the start payment 31
   days after the start date. The payment for the allowance will be from the effective start date and will
   continue until canceled or stopped by the FSO.
   27.6.4. See paragraph 27.7. below for FSO actions.
   27.6.5. DELETED
   27.6.6. DELETED
   27.6.7. DELETED.

27.7. FSO Action. Submit FSA transactions when member becomes entitled or when entitlement stops
per DoDFMR, Volume 7A, tables 27-1 through 27-4. FSA type T start transaction can not be submitted
until the member’s date of departure. FSA type S and T start transactions will not pay until the member
has been separated from his family for over thirty days, with entitlement back to date of departure. FSA-T
start transactions can not be submitted until the member’s date of departure. NOTE: due to the increas-
ing number of members who are entitled to FSA-T, Air Force policy now requires that the servicing FSO
(home station) input the start transaction (6501) at departure, based on the member’s orders to duty for
more than 30 days and the member’s completed certification on DD Form 1561.
   27.7.1. Members with dependents must report to finance prior to departing on a TDY projected for
   more than 30 days. The member must complete a DD Form 1561, mark the applicable blocks in sec-
   tion 8, read the certification statement, and sign and date in block 9. Based upon that certification and
   a copy of the member’s orders, FSO completes DD Form 114, including the following statement: "I
   certify that this members is in receipt of orders for a period of more than 30 days and that member has
   completed DD Form 1561."
   27.7.2. Attach a copy of the orders to the DD Form 114 and use that as the source document for the
   6501 transaction to start FSA. DJMS-AC will recycle the start until the member has been gone for
   more than 30 days and then generate the pay entitlement, retroactive to the date of departure.
   27.7.3. Attach a copy of the TDY order to the DD Form 1561 and file in a suspense file until the pro-
   jected date of return contained in the orders. On projected date of return, or actual date of return if the
   member comes back earlier, process the 6502 to stop the FSA and sign the certification statement on
   the DD Form 1561, using the DD 1561, travel voucher, and the attached order as the supporting doc-
   umentation for the stop.
       27.7.3.1. DELETED.
       27.7.3.2. DELETED
       27.7.3.3. DELTED
       27.7.3.4. DELETED
       27.7.3.5. DELETED
   27.7.4. If the member’s orders were amended, adjust the suspense date accordingly.
480                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      27.7.5. Brief departing members on this new policy, and inform them that FSA-T is based on being
      TDY for more than 30 days, reminding them that if they return before being gone for more than 30
      days, the FSA entitlement will be cancelled and any overpayment, due to late notification of return,
      will be collected. Also, ensure members are aware that all amendments must be provided to the FSO.
      27.7.6. Input is shown in Figure 27.3. Transactions are limited to one of these actions:
         27.7.6.1. Start (01). Establishes entitlement for an indefinite period.
         27.7.6.2. Stop (02). Terminates entitlement when a member becomes ineligible for FSA.
         27.7.6.3. Report (03). Credits member with one-time entitlement and is used only with inclusive
         dates.
         27.7.6.4. Correct (05). Corrects a previous action submitted with an error.
         27.7.6.5. Cancel (06). Completely voids a previous submission.

27.8. FSA-I was replaced by Family Separation Housing (FSH). For information on FSH, see Chap-
ter 26 of this volume.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               481


Figure 27.1. DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation Allowance.
482                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 27.2. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 483


Figure 27.3. Formats to Start/Stop, Report/Cancel or Correct FSA.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        06501/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR STOP


       32        FSA-TYPE CODE:
                 F--FSA-I (PCS)
                 R--FSA-II (PCS)
                 T--FSA-II (TDY)
                 S--FSA-II (SHIP)


      1-5        06503/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS OR ZEROS


     26-31       DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS OR ZEROS


       32        FSA-TYPE CODE:
                 F--FSA-I (PCS)
                 R--FSA-II (PCS)
                 T--FSA-II (TDY)
                 S--FSA-II (SHIP)


      1-5        06505
484                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS OR ZEROS


      26-31   DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS OR ZEROS


       32     FSA-TYPE CODE FOR NEW ENTITLEMENT:
              F--FSA-I (PCS)
              R--FSA-II (PCS)
              T--FSA-II (TDY)
              S--FSA-II (SHIP)




       55     FSA-TYPE CODE THAT WAS IN TRANSACTION THAT STARTED
              ENTITLEMENT:
              F--FSA-I (PCS)
              R--FSA-II (PCS)
              T--FSA-II (TDY)
              S--FSA-II (SHIP)


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD IN TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
              OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           485


CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    62-67    PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD IN TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED OR
             ZEROS
486                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                Chapter 28

                              COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA)

Section 28A—Overseas Cost of Living Allowance (COLA).

28.1. Description. Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) is designed to assist members in defraying the
excess costs incurred incident to assignment on permanent duty to a station outside CONUS. Conditions
of entitlement to COLA are contained in the Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR), Volume I, chapter 9,
part B.

28.2. Substantiating Document. FSO maintains a DD Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence
Certification, for prorated COLA to substantiate MMPA update. The FSO should use AF IMT 220,
Request Authorization and Pay Order Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS), to start or stop COLA if
these actions correspond with BAS. The AF IMT 220 will contain appropriate comments. The FSO uses
DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, for COLA when not corresponding with BAS (see Figure 28.1.),
requiring the member to certify number of dependents claimed for COLA purposes on the DD Form 114.

28.3. FSO Action:
      28.3.1. When the member departs PCS, COLA is stopped 1 day before the
      DATE-DEPART-LAST-DUTY-STATION in the PCS departure (SH03) transaction. The FSO at the
      new duty station must restart COLA entitlement when a member with dependents is reassigned (PCS)
      from a PDS outside CONUS to another station either overseas or CONUS and the dependents remain
      at the old duty station where COLA is authorized. Continuance of COLA at the old station may be
      authorized (up to 60 days) when delayed departure of dependents is necessary for reasons beyond the
      member or dependents' control. Delayed departure of dependents may be authorized for reasons such
      as illness or hospitalization of a dependent, completion of school term, lack of adequate housing or
      obtaining housing at new PDS, and so forth. The CONUS FSO must process a stop transaction upon
      departure of the dependents from the overseas station.
      28.3.2. When member is entitled to COLA under provisions of JFTR, paragraph U9100-C4, a sepa-
      rate start transaction, FORMAT-ID 47, is required.
      28.3.3. When a member separating overseas starts terminal leave in CONUS and it is questionable
      that member will return to point of separation, stop COLA. If member does return to point of separa-
      tion, submit a report transaction to adjust member's pay.
      28.3.4. The FSO must have the member certify the number of dependents claimed for COLA on PCS
      departure. Adjust member's COLA when applicable.
      28.3.5. Enlisted members, without dependents, who reside in unaccompanied personnel housing (the
      dorm) at a PDS outside CONUS. If these members have an impracticability or non-availability deter-
      mination by the commander, are entitled to the full COLA rate, which is 100 percent of the without
      dependent rate. FSO is provided a copy of the determination of impracticability or non-availability
      for use as supporting documentation for the 0 dependent rate of COLA. If no such determination has
      been made, the member is entitled to the barracks rate, or 47% rate, of COLA, because government
      dining facilities are considered available.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              487


   28.3.6. Members without dependents who reside in dormitories and are on ESM are entitled to the 47
   percent (Bachelor) rate COLA. These members are coded with NR-DEPN-COLA equal to 9.
   28.3.7. A member does not have to receive BAH on behalf of a dependent in order to receive COLA
   on behalf of that dependent. The definition of dependent for COLA purposes is contained in the
   JFTR, paragraph U9000. A member can be paid BAH on behalf of a spouse, for example, but have
   parents or parents-in-law, etc., on the orders and receive command sponsorship for those parents. This
   entitles the member to claim the parents for COLA purposes.
   28.3.8. COLA Computation. See JFTR, Appendix L.
   28.3.9. Input Format. Input formats are shown in Figure 28.2. through Figure 28.7.
   28.3.10. Rejects. See Chapter 4.

28.4. BAQ Compatibility Edits.
   28.4.1. If the member’s open BAH-II entry is without dependent rate BAH-II, with-dependent rate
   COLA will not process unless the closest dependency code is equal to ‘I’. The start or report transac-
   tion will recycle until the BAH-II or BAH-DIFF entry is changed or corrected, or the input is modified
   to agree with the MMPA.
   28.4.2. If COLA was started as single or bachelor rate COLA (i.e., number of dependents equal to ‘0’
   or ‘9’), a change or correct transaction will not update the MMPA to with-dependent COLA, unless
   the closest dependency code is ‘I’. The change or correct transaction will recycle until the BAH-II or
   BAH-DIFF entry is changed or corrected, or the input is changed to agree with the MMPA.
   28.4.3. If the closest dependency code in the 35 entry is G or R, only single or bachelor rate COLA
   can be paid. The start or report transaction will recycle until the BAH-II entry is changed or corrected,
   or the input is changed to agree with the MMPA.
   28.4.4. Once single or bachelor COLA is started it cannot be changed to with-dependent COLA, if the
   closest dependency code in the 35 entry is G or R. The start or report transaction will recycle until the
   BAH-II entry is changed or corrected, or the input is changed to agree with the MMPA.
   28.4.5. Dual COLA (FID 47) cannot be paid if one of the following conditions exist:
       28.4.5.1. There is an open or closed 36 entry on the MMPA.
       28.4.5.2. The closest dependency code in the 35 entry is G, I, or R.
   28.4.6. The start or report transaction will recycle until the BAH-II or BAH-DIFF entry is changed or
   corrected, or the input is changed to agree with the MMPA.

28.5. Verification. FSOs are provided a monthly listing of members currently drawing COLA and sta-
tioned in CONUS. List should be used to verify COLA entitlement.

Section 28B—CONUS Cost of Living Allowance (COLA).

28.6. Description. CONUS COLA is designed to serve as a temporary reimbursement for members serv-
ing in high cost areas in CONUS to partially offset additional expenses incurred. Specific conditions of
entitlement are contained in the JFTR, Volume I, chapter 8, part B.
488                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


28.7. Substantiating Documents. The FSO prepares DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, to start, stop,
change, correct, or cancel a member’s CONUS COLA entitlement using FID 51.

28.8. Eligible Members. Payment of CONUS COLA is based on assignment to a designated high cost
area, pay grade, years of service (longevity), and status in regards to basic allowance for quarters (BAQ).
The entitlement will be paid at either the with or without dependent rate. Members residing in the bar-
racks will receive CONUS COLA at the without dependent rate irrespective of any entitlement to basic
allowance for subsistence (BAS). The following members are eligible to receive CONUS COLA:
      28.8.1. A member with or without dependents assigned to a high cost area in CONUS.
      28.8.2. A member in an unaccompanied status outside CONUS, if the primary dependent resides in a
      designated CONUS high cost area.
      28.8.3. A member assigned to duty in CONUS and;
         28.8.3.1. The primary dependent of the member must reside in a high cost area in CONUS by rea-
         son of the member’s duty location or other circumstances; and
         28.8.3.2. It would be inequitable for the member’s eligibility for the allowance to be determined
         on the basis of the duty location of the member (see JFTR para U8055-B).

28.9. Definitions.
      28.9.1. High Cost Area. Designated by the Secretary of Defense (listed in table 160).
      28.9.2. Member With Dependents. A member who is entitled to BAQ at the with dependent rate or
      would be entitled if Government quarters were not occupied.
      28.9.3. Member Without Dependents. A member entitled to single rate BAQ or would be entitled if
      Government quarters were not occupied. This also includes partial rate BAQ.
      28.9.4. Primary Dependent. The member’s spouse or, for an unmarried member, a dependent as
      defined per the JFTR Appendix A.

28.10. Member Married to Member. Each is entitled to a CONUS COLA in his or her own right. Enti-
tlement exists whether a joint residence or separate residences are maintained. In no case will a spouse
who is also a member on active duty be considered as a dependent for entitlement purposes. When a
member married to member couple maintains a joint residence and they have dependents, CONUS COLA
will be paid for one at the with dependent rate and for the other at the without dependent rate.

28.11. Status.
      28.11.1. PCS. Entitlement exists effective the day the member reports to the new permanent duty sta-
      tion (PDS) in a high cost area. The PCS arrival transaction (SG) will cancel CONUS COLA start
      (FID 5101) transactions, unless the entitlement start date in the 51 transaction is equal to or greater
      than the PCS arrival date less travel days. Upon departure, CONUS COLA continues to pay for the
      entire period of PCS, less the authorized travel days.
      28.11.2. Non-pay status. Not payable for periods of a non-pay status (i.e., excess leave, AWOL).
      28.11.3. Separation. Payable through the day of separation including days of terminal leave.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          489


   28.11.4. Hospitalized. See JFTR para U8006.

28.12. Dual Payment of Overseas COLA and CONUS COLA. A member assigned outside CONUS
may be paid overseas COLA at the applicable without dependent rate and a CONUS COLA at the with
dependent rate or the high cost area where the primary dependent resides. Only payable if there are no
command sponsored dependents residing with the member. At no time will overseas COLA and CONUS
COLA be paid concurrently at the with dependent rate.

28.13. Members Paying Child Support. Members receiving with dependent rate BAQ solely for the
purpose of child support, are entitled to CONUS COLA at the without dependent rate.

28.14. New Accessions. Newly inducted enlisted or reenlisted members, officers, or officer candidates
are entitled as follows:
   28.14.1. Member without dependents - for the duty location to which assigned. The rate will change
   on the day the member arrives at each new duty location until arrival at the designated initial PDS.
   28.14.2. Members with dependents - for the location of the primary dependent until the day before the
   day member arrives at the initial PDS. The entitlement will be reduced by the number of travel days
   authorized.
490                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 28.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (for Member Due COLA).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                      491


Figure 28.2. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, Change, Correct, or Cancel COLA.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        04601


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


     32-36       JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION


       37        NUMBER-DEPENDENTS-COLA: NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS FOR WHICH
                 COLA IS AUTHORIZED; CANNOT BE ZERO IF MEMBER IS RECEIVING
                 COLA FOR A RESTRICTED AREA; 9 IF MEMBER IS ENTITLED TO
                 BACHELOR COLA


      1-5        04602


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD OF LAST DAY THROUGH WHICH
                 ENTITLEMENT SHOULD BE PAID


      1-5        04603


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START
492                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      26-31   DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP


      32-36   JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION


       37     NUMBER-DEPENDENTS-COLA: NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS FOR WHICH
              COLA IS AUTHORIZED; CANNOT BE ZERO IF MEMBER IS RECEIVING
              COLA FOR A RESTRICTED AREA; 9 IF MEMBER IS ENTITLED TO
              BACHELOR COLA


       1-5    04604


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE




      32-36   JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION

       37     NUMBER-DEPENDENTS-COLA: NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS FOR WHICH
              COLA IS AUTHORIZED; CANNOT BE ZERO IF MEMBER IS RECEIVING
              COLA FOR A RESTRICTED AREA; 9 IF MEMBER IS ENTITLED TO
              BACHELOR COLA


       1-5    04605


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             493


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    20-25    DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START OR
             ZEROS


    26-31    DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP OR ZEROS


    32-36    JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION


     37      NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS FOR COLA; 9 FOR BACHELOR COLA


    56-61    PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD IN TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
             OR ZEROS


    62-67    PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD IN TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED OR
             ZEROS


     1-5     04606


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE-START: YYMMDD IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS

    26-31    DATE-STOP: YYMMDD IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS
494                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 28.3. Formats to Start, Stop, Report or Change Restricted Area COLA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      04701


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      32-36     JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION


       37       NUMBER-DEPENDENTS-COLA: 0--MEMBER ONLY, 9--BACHELOR COLA


       1-5      04702


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS


       1-5      04703


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      26-31     DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS


      32-36     JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             495


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     37      NUMBER-DEPENDENTS-COLA: 0--MEMBER ONLY, 9--BACHELOR COLA


     1-5     04704


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


    32-36    JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION


     37      NUMBER-DEPENDENTS-COLA: 0--MEMBER ONLY, 9--BACHELOR COLA
496                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 28.4. Formats to Correct or Cancel Restricted Area COLA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      04705


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS OR ZEROS


      26-31     DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS OR ZEROS


      32-36     JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION


       37       NUMBER-DEPENDENTS-COLA: 0--MEMBER ONLY, 9--BACHELOR COLA


      56-61     PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD OF TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
                OR ZEROS


      62-67     PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD OF TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
                OR ZEROS


       1-5      04706


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     DATE-START: YYMMDD OF ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS


      26-31     DATE-STOP: YYMMDD OF ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 497


Figure 28.5. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct Prorated COLA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       04903/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS (ALWAYS FIRST DAY OF
                THE MONTH)


     26-31      DATE-STOP: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS (ALWAYS LAST DAY OF
                THE MONTH ENTITLEMENT STARTED)


     32-36      JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION:
                BLANK FOR ACTION INDICATOR 06


     37-41      AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-ENTITLEMENT: TOTAL AMOUNT DUE MEMBER;
                BLANK FOR ACTION INDICATOR 06


      1-5       04905


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START
                (ALWAYS FIRST DAY OF THE MONTH)


     26-31      DATE-STOP: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP
                (ALWAYS LAST DAY OF THE MONTH ENTITLEMENT STARTED)


     32-36      JFTR-LOCATION CODE FOR APPLICABLE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION
498                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   37-41  AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-ENTITLEMENT: TOTAL AMOUNT DUE MEMBER


      56-61   PRIOR-DATE-START: YYMMDD IN TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED


      62-67   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: YYMMDD IN TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           499


Figure 28.6. Formats to Start, Stop, Report, or Change CONUS COLA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       05101


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YEAR, MONTH, DAY ENTITLEMENT STARTS


     32-36      ZIP CODE FOR AUTHORIZED AREA


      37        ENTER 0, NOT DEPENDENTS
                ENTER 1, WITH DEPENDENTS


      1-5       05102


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      LAST DAY OF ENTITLEMENT


      1-5       05103


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      YEAR, MONTH, DAY ENTITLEMENT SHOULD START


     26-31      YEAR, MONTH, DAY ENTITLEMENT SHOULD STOP
500                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   32-36  ZIP CODE FOR AUTHORIZED AREA


       37     ENTER 0, NOT DEPENDENTS
              ENTER 1, WITH DEPENDENTS


       1-5    05104


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YEAR, MONTH AND DAY EFFECTIVE


      32-36   ZIP CODE FOR AUTHORIZED AREA


       37     ENTER 0, NOT DEPENDENTS
              ENTER 1, WITH DEPENDENTS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    501


Figure 28.7. Formats to Correct or Cancel CONUS COLA.


 CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5      05105


     6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25     IF THE START DATE OF AN OPEN OR HISTORY ENTRY IS BEING
               CORRECTED, ENTER THE CORRECT START DATE. IF ZIP CODE OR
               PRIOR START/STOP DATE IS BEING CORRECTED, ENTER START DATE
               ON MMPA. OTHERWISE ZERO FILL


     26-31     IF STOP DATE ON HISTORY ENTRY IS BEING CORRECTED, ENTER
               CORRECT STOP DATE. OTHERWISE ZERO FILL


     32-36     ZIP CODE FOR AUTHORIZED AREA


      37       ENTER 0, NOT DEPENDENTS
               ENTER 1, WITH DEPENDENTS


     56-61     IF 20-25 CONTAIN A DATE, ENTER DATE-START AS SHOWN ON THE
               MMPA FOR ENTRY BEING CORRECTED. IF NOT, ZERO FILL


     62-67     IF 26-31 CONTAIN A DATE, ENTER DATE-STOP AS SHOWN ON MPA FOR
               THE ENTRY BEING CORRECTED. IF NOT, ZERO FILL


      1-5      05106


     6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
502                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   20-25  OPEN ENTRY, DATE START SHOWN ON MMPA. IF ENTIRE HISTORY
          ENTRY IS BEING CANCELED, USE DATE START ON MMPA HISTORY
          ENTRY. IF HISTORY STOP DATE IS BEING CANCELED, ZERO FILL


      36-31   OPEN ENTRY BEING CANCELED, ZERO FILL. HISTORY ENTRY IS BEING
              CANCELED, USE DATE STOP FROM MMPA HISTORY ENTRY.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           503


                                             Chapter 29

                        TEMPORARY LODGING ALLOWANCE (TLA)

29.1. Description. Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA) is authorized to partially reimburse a member
for the more than normal expenses incurred during occupancy of temporary lodgings and expenses of
meals obtained as a direct result of use of temporary lodgings outside the CONUS which do not have
facilities for preparing and consuming meals. Conditions of entitlement to TLA are contained in the
JFTR, Volume I, chapter 9, part c.

29.2. Substantiating Documents:
   29.2.1. AF Form 1357, Request for Temporary Lodging Allowance:
       29.2.1.1. An AF Form 1357 (Figure 29.2.) is used to start, stop, or change TLA credit when a
       member:
          29.2.1.1.1. becomes entitled to IHA;
          29.2.1.1.2. is furnished government quarters for self, dependents, or both;
          29.2.1.1.3. becomes entitled to OHA and COLA.
       29.2.1.2. In every instance, the TLA type must be identified on the AF Form 1357.
          29.2.1.2.1. I - Incoming. Authorized for beginning of member's assignment at permanent sta-
          tion.
          29.2.1.2.2. X - Incoming Extension.
          29.2.1.2.3. D - Departure. Authorized for or within the last 10 days before day of departure of
          member from old permanent station or, in special cases, for early return of dependents. See
          JFTR, paragraph U9024.
          29.2.1.2.4. E - Extension of Departure.
          29.2.1.2.5. K - Kitchen Renovation. When residence is under renovation (kitchen) not requir-
          ing occupants to obtain temporary lodging.
          29.2.1.2.6. R - Full Renovation. When renovation or special circumstances require occupants
          to occupy temporary lodging.
       29.2.1.3. For household goods (HHG), obtain from the transportation officer and include on the
       AF Form 1357 the date when HHG were available for delivery and the date HHG were delivered
       and accepted by member. When the additional period of entitlement is due to non-arrival of HHG,
       the transportation officer must certify the AF Form 1357.
       29.2.1.4. When a member with dependents completes AF Form 1357, a predetermined election
       must be made to continue or postpone entitlement to TLA for any period of hospitalization or
       absence away from the permanent station while on assigned duty.
       29.2.1.5. AF Form 1357 is annotated with additional information to substantiate payment.
       29.2.1.6. When members and/or dependents are serviced by an Army housing office, Army AE
       Form 3652 is authorized in lieu of AF Form 1357.
504                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      29.2.2. Attachments to AF Form 1357:
         29.2.2.1. Attach to the original AF Form 1357:
             29.2.2.1.1. Special orders. Orders are required for the original payment. Later payments
             require cross-reference to original payment.
             29.2.2.1.2. Receipts (copy will suffice) for any lodging expense claimed (for example, hotel,
             motel, VOQ, BOQ, guest house, TLQ). Unpaid bills may be used when anticipating expenses
             to pay member before departure if actual expenses are verified and any erroneous payment is
             collected. If the receipt is lost, the member certifies a statement of lodging expense containing
             dates, places, establishment names, and amounts.
             29.2.2.1.3. For itemization of meal expenses when government mess is utilized, use the for-
             mat shown in JFTR, chapter 9, part c, or one substantially the same.
         29.2.2.2. Retention of copies is not required.

29.3. Temporary Lodging Allowance-Departure (TLA-D). TLA is payable before the day of depar-
ture. The losing FSO should make every attempt to make the final TLA payment prior to the member's
departure and to adjust the account for erroneous information prior to payment. In unusual circumstances,
when member cannot be paid before departure, losing commander furnishes all information required for
preparation of AF Form 1357 to the gaining commander to support payment of TLA-D, to be made at new
permanent station. Show complete geographical address such as city or station number, political subdivi-
sion, and country (for example, U-Tapao AB, Chon Buri Province, Thailand). For a member authorized
TLA-D for dependents who remain at the old station after member's departure PCS, include date the last
dependent left the old permanent station. Also, include the reason payment could not be made by losing
commander. Data is normally prepared by the FSO. It can be prepared by the housing office or other
officer as designated by the commander.
      29.3.1. Payment of TLA Departure for Dependents of Deceased Members. TLA is authorized for
      dependents of deceased members prior to departing the overseas area. Authorized for or within the
      last 10 days before day of departure from old permanent duty station. TLA may not exceed 10 days
      unless authorized per JFTR U9204. Use special orders signed by competent authority to attach to the
      original AF Form 1357. Payment must not exceed 60 days after death of the member.
      29.3.2. Non-availability of Quarters. A non-availability of Government quarters statement is
      required to support all TLA claims, except as provided in JFTR, Volume I, part C, chapter 9. Use an
      AF Form 1357 and PCS orders to substantiate all payments. When processing TLA payments manu-
      ally, use an SF Form 1034 (Figure 29.1.) and report payments as in Figure 29.4. Review MMPA of
      member authorizing a per diem rate other than that of the PDS concerned to prevent authorizing dual
      allowances.

29.4. TLA-Arrival. TLA paid upon initial assignment to a PDS outside CONUS will not normally
exceed 60 days. An additional period may be authorized. The 60-day entitlement period begins on the
same date as authorized for OHA and COLA and the days do not have to be consecutive. See JFTR para-
graph U9202 for additional entitlement information.

29.5. Additional Factors Affecting TLA. The military pay SMA must ensure that member's entitle-
ments are properly posted to the MMPA while in TLA status. A suspense file may be used for control and
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               505


ensuring proper posting of entitlements to the MMPA. Members on TLA are entitled to BAS and will not
be subject to meal charge deductions using the DN (see AFMAN 65-116, V2, chapter 6.) OHA and
COLA are not to be paid for the same period member receives TLA except when concurrent payment of
station allowances are allowed under JFTR, Volume I, paragraph U9100C4. Except as otherwise autho-
rized by paragraph U9100C4, do not start OHA and COLA until final payment of TLA-Incoming is made,
and ensure that OHA and COLA are stopped or the stop dates are corrected to the day prior to the first day
of TLA-Departure.
   29.5.1. There are no longer any deductions from TLA included in the computation.
       29.5.1.1. DELETED.
       29.5.1.2. DELETED
       29.5.1.3. DELETED
       29.5.1.4. DELETED
   29.5.2. Daily Basis. Ensure TLA is computed on a daily basis. TLA computations will be made in
   increments of 10 days (15 days when determined to be appropriate by the TLA approving authority)
   or less when entitlement to TLA ceases to exist before the end of a 10 day (or 15 day) period. TLA
   computation is based on the Meals and Incidental Expense (M&IE) rate for each locality. When cook-
   ing facilities are available, computation is based on one-half of the M&IE rate. When cooking facili-
   ties are not available, then the computation is based on the full M&IE rate. (See paragraph 29.6. for
   TLA computation.)
       29.5.2.1. DELETED.
       29.5.2.2. DELETED
       29.5.2.3. DELETED
       29.5.2.4. DELETED
   29.5.3. First and Last Day of TLA. TLA for the first day and the last day is computed as though
   meals are not available and the full rate of the M&IE rate is used. This is still true when cooking facil-
   ities are available. The first day of TLA status is the first day for which payment can be received; this
   may not be the day of arrival. When member arrives in a MALT plus per diem status, no TLA pay-
   ment is authorized for that day; therefore, the day after arrival is the first day of TLA status and meals
   are considered not available and the full M&IE rate is used to compute TLA for that day.
       29.5.3.1. It is the 31st of the month.
       29.5.3.2. Member is staying with friends or relatives.
       29.5.3.3. No hotel lodging costs are incurred.
   29.5.4. OHA and/or COLA. Stop 2400 hours prior to entering a TLA status. Exceptions are in JFTR,
   Volume I, paragraph U9100-C4 and at paragraph 29.6.2.2. below.
       29.5.4.1. DELETED
       29.5.4.2. DELETED
       29.5.4.3. DELETED
       29.5.4.4. DELETED
506                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         29.5.4.5. DELETED
         29.5.4.6. DELETED.
      29.5.5. Extra Room Charge. The only reimbursable expense on a day prior to entering and after ter-
      minating a TLA status.
      29.5.6. Hospitalization. When TLA is authorized during hospitalization, use the meals available rate
      for TLA computation. See JFTR, Volume I, paragraph U9202E and U9204H. This only applies if all
      persons for whom TLA is received are hospitalized during all three meal periods or if all persons con-
      sumed three government meals. (See paragraph 29.6.1.5.) When member or dependents are not hos-
      pitalized during all three meal periods (date of admission or release) or all persons for whom TLA is
      received do not consume all three government meals, use the meals not available rate if cooking facil-
      ities are not available. (See paragraph 29.6.)
      29.5.7. Military-Married-to-Military (each with dependents in own right). Determine the total per-
      centage for lodging purposes per JFTR, Volume I, paragraph U9207A1. For example, member A has
      two dependents and member B has one number. Per CG Decision B-217665, 23 August 1985, one
      member is entitled to receive BAH at the with-dependent rate while the other member is entitled to
      receive BAH at the without-dependent rate. In order to align the TLA payments to this CG Decision,
      the member receiving BAH at the with-dependent rate will claim all the dependents for TLA. If mem-
      ber A is receiving the with-dependent rate BAH, member A claims self and 3 dependents. Member B
      will claim TLA for self only. Member A plus three dependents equals 150 percent. If the lodging cost
      is $80 per day, divide $80 by 215 percent, which gives a result of $37,209. Multiply the result by 150
      percent (member and three dependents), resulting in a $55.81 lodging cost for member A. For mem-
      ber B, multiply $37,209 by 65 percent, which results in a lodging cost of $24.19.
      29.5.8. Extensions. When an extension is granted beyond the normal entitlement period, attach a
      statement authorizing the extension to AF Form 1357 or annotate the form as prescribed in JFTR, Vol-
      ume I, U9202F and AFMAN 65-116, V2, chapter 5, table 5-4.
      29.5.9. DELETED
      29.5.10. DELETED
      29.5.11. DELETED
      29.5.12. DELETED

29.6. Computation of TLA. See JFTR, Volume I, part C, chapter 9.
      29.6.1. Computation Method:
         29.6.1.1. Step 1: Determine the percentage to be used based on number of individuals.


                        Member or 1 Dependent                                                        65%
                        Member & 1 Dependent or 2 Dependents only                                   100%
                        For each additional Dependent, under 12, add                                 25%
                        For each additional Dependent 12, and over, add                              35%
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             507


         29.6.1.1.1. If member is TDY or deployed, still include them in the number of persons occu-
         pying the temporary lodgings.
     29.6.1.2. Step 2: Determine the M&IE equivalency. Multiply the percentage in Step 1 by the
     locality M&IE rate (not the per diem rate.) If meals are not available, use the current M&IE rate.
     If meals are available, use one-half (1/2) of the M&IE rate. (If member is TDY, take the total and
     divide by the number of individuals on TLA to get the members share of the meal allowance.)
     First and last day is always computed at the "Meals not Available" rate. When staying with friends
     or relatives, cooking facilities are not considered available since they are not for the exclusive use
     of the member or member's dependents.
     29.6.1.3. Step 3: Determine Gross Daily Equivalency. Add the results in Step 2 (less the mem-
     ber's share of the meal allowance if the member is TDY or deployed while away from their new
     permanent station). Add the actual daily lodging cost. If staying with friends or relatives, lodging
     cost is not allowed.
     29.6.1.4. Step 4: Determine Net Daily Equivalency. Deduct the total daily allowances. See para-
     graph 29-5 for deductible daily allowances.
     29.6.1.5. Step 5: Determine Maximum TLA. Multiply the percentage obtained in Step 1 times
     the locality per diem rate (Lodging plus M&IE), if meals are not available. If meals are available,
     it is the percentage obtained in Step 1 times the adjusted per diem rate (lodging plus 1/2 of the
     M&IE).
     29.6.1.6. Step 6: Determine Applicable Daily Rate. Compare the amounts found in Step 4 and
     Step 5 (less the members meal allowance as determined in Step 3 when member is TDY or
     deployed). Pay the lesser of these two amounts for each day.
  29.6.2. Items for Reimbursement for Lodging costs:
     29.6.2.1. Receipts, invoices, or statements are required to verify lodging expenses.
     29.6.2.2. If a member is receiving OHA for a lease that has not expired prior to his/her applying
     for TLA-D, the member’s OHA continues until the lease expires or the member departs the area.
     29.6.2.3. When staying with friends or relatives, no lodging cost is allowed.
     29.6.2.4. Disregard meals under the Bed and Breakfast concept. Consider this as lodging cost and
     add the appropriate meal rate.
  29.6.3. Per Diem Rates:
     29.6.3.1. Per JFTR, Volume I, paragraph U9207B, whenever government or commercial lodgings
     are not available at the PDS and member must obtain government or commercial lodgings at a
     nearby location, a statement from the housing officer is required to support computing the TLA
     payment based upon the per diem rate for the location of the temporary lodging.
         29.6.3.1.1. If the housing officer does not provide a statement authorizing a per diem rate
         other than that of the PDS, the PDS rate will be used - regardless of the location of the lodging.
         29.6.3.1.2. If the housing officer does provide a statement authorizing a per diem rate other
         than that of the PDS, the authorized rate will apply, regardless of whether that rate is higher or
         lower than the rate of the PDS.
508                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             29.6.3.1.3. If member does not use recommended lodging and the housing officer restricts
             payment to a per diem rate lower than that of the PDS, the housing officer must annotate AF
             Form 1357 with the applicable per diem rate.
      29.6.4. Miscellaneous:
         29.6.4.1. TLA is payable before detachment (departure) from the old PDS and after arrival
         (reporting) to the new PDS. For dependents, TLA is payable before departure from the area of the
         old PDS and after arrival in the area of the new PDS.
         29.6.4.2. TLA is not payable on day of arrival if member and/or dependents arrive in a MALT
         plus per diem status. TLA is only payable if MALT plus per diem is otherwise not payable.
         29.6.4.3. Members in TLA-D status who were previously assigned a dormitory room and
         received partial rate BAH are entitled to full rate BAH for the period of TLA-D.

29.7. FSO Actions. Payment of Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA). TLA is reflected in DJMS-AC
as FID 79 for which members may elect to receive payment in their regular military pay or as a partial
payment after the entitlement has been processed. For members electing immediate payment who partic-
ipate in the direct deposit program, process a CICS trans ID ‘JPBB’ (see paragraph 38.9.2. for a more
detailed scenario of this payment process) to central site to disburse the amount of TLA to the member’s
bank account. After the money has been transmitted to the bank, a payment transaction (PK03) is system-
atically created to post against the member’s MMPA. Members who have a waiver for participation in the
direct deposit program may continue to be paid locally. JUMPS Temporary Lodging Allowance (JTLA)
is a stand-alone application that computes TLA entitlements in accordance with JFTR, Volume I, part C,
chapter 9, and Air Force Policy for structured or standard claims. For non-structured or complex claims,
TLA must be computed manually, paid with an SF Form 1034, (Figure 29.1.) and processed as a PS03
memo entry on the MMPA (Figure 29.4.). Before certifying the authorization to TLA, review the mem-
ber's MMPA to ensure the allowances not authorized to be paid concurrently during periods of TLA are
stopped. Normally, stop OHA and COLA on the day before the member receives TLA (JFTR paragraph
U9000).
      29.7.1. Preparation and Distribution of SF Form 1034:
         29.7.1.1. Preparation. FSO completes four copies of SF 1034. Show:
             29.7.1.1.1. Type of TLA.
             29.7.1.1.2. Periods of payment.
             29.7.1.1.3. Persons to whom TLA payable:
                29.7.1.1.3.1. Member only.
                29.7.1.1.3.2. Member and _____ dependents.
                29.7.1.1.3.3. ______ dependents only.
             29.7.1.1.4. Number of TLA payments being made.
             29.7.1.1.5. Cross-reference to initial payment if other than initial payment.
             29.7.1.1.6. If agent office, show agent disbursement number in schedule number.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        509


         29.7.1.1.7. International balance of payments (IBP) code after the accounting classification.
         (Reference AFI 33-110, Volume I, for applicable code.) Example: Germany - GEA. (Make
         sure that restrictions on dual allowances and periods payable are observed.)
     29.7.1.2. Attachments. Attach AF Form 1357 with the required documents specified in paragraph
     29.2.
     29.7.1.3. Distribution.
         29.7.1.3.1. Standard Payments. Send original to the Denver Federal Records Center (DFRC)
         with quarterly document submission, file second copy in FSO-retained file, and ensure the
         member gets the third copy.
         29.7.1.3.2. Complex Payments. Send original to disbursing for payment and inclusion in their
         normal document submission, file second copy in FSO-retained file, and provide the third
         copy to the member.
  29.7.2. Interim Payments. Made every 5 to 10 days because of high cost-of-living, such payments
  may be certified by the commander or designee. The housing or transportation officer is required to
  furnish actual certification only on final settlement.
  29.7.3. Control. Maintain a suspense control on every member authorized TLA, OHA, and COLA
  for dependents who remain at old station after member leaves for new permanent station. OHA and
  COLA are not normally payable during any period in which member is drawing TLA. (See JFTR,
  Volume I, paragraph U9100-C4.) Members on TLA are entitled to BAS. (See AFMAN 65-116, V2,
  chapter 6.)
  29.7.4. Source of Input. The housing officer furnishes data to the FSO. The FSO furnishes input to
  DFAS-DE by input of a 7903 transaction (or PS03 memo entry for off-line payments). Figure 29.3.
  through Figure 29.4. are examples of the input transactions required for TLA.
510                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 29.1. SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            511


Figure 29.2. AF Form 1357, Request for Temporary Lodging Allowance.
512                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 29.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collections of TLA Overpayments.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0C303/06 OR AC305 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF DATE OF COLLECTION VOUCHER


      32-39     COLLECTION VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-45     AMOUNT OF COLLECTION IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


      46-48     BUDGET PROJECT:
                515--OFFICER
                535--ENLISTED


      49-50     NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS, TLA, REPORTED ON PAYMENT
                TRANSACTION


      51-52     NUMBER OF DAYS OVERPAID TLA OR ZEROS

      53-54     FISCAL YEAR FOR WHICH TLA WAS COLLECTED


      55-58     JFTR LOCATION TLA PERTAINS TO IF LOCATION IS NOT UNDER RENT
                PLUS OR BLANK


       59       TLA TYPE CODE:
                D--DEPARTURE
                E--DEPARTURE EXTENSION
                I--INITIAL
                X--INITIAL EXTENSION
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              513


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    60-64    JFTR LOCATION CODE THAT TLA PERTAINS TO OR BLANK


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
514                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 29.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO - Authorized Payment for Temporary Lodg-
ing Allowance.

 CHARACTER                                           DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


1-5            0PS03/06 OR APS05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


6-14           SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


15-19          FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


20-25          YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


26             GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
               A--AIR FORCE
               B--ARMY
               C--NAVY
               D--MARINES
               G--COAST GUARD
               M--STATE DEPARTMENT


27-30          ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT FROM INPUT FSO.
               OTHERWISE, BLANK


31             OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


32-39          PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


40-45          AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


46-48          BUDGET PROJECT (see Note)
               515--OFFICER
               535-ENLISTED


               NOTE: DJMS will not accept more than 515 or 535; however, the voucher must contain 515.02 or
               535.02 to correctly reflect TLA payments


49-50          NUMBER OF PERSONS, INCLUDING MEMBER, FOR WHICH MEMBER RECEIVES TLA


51-52          NUMBER OF DAYS MEMBER RECEIVED PAYMENT FOR TLA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             515


 CHARACTER                                DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


53-54        FISCAL YEAR TLA WAS EARNED


59           TLA TYPE:
             TLA TYPE CODE:
             D--DEPARTURE
             E--DEPARTURE EXTENSION
             I--INITIAL
             X--INITIAL EXTENSION


60-64        JFTR LOCATION IF MEMBER IS IN AN AREA UNDER RENT-PLUS. OTHERWISE, BLANK


             NOTE: A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A CARD
             CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS THE PREVIOUSLY
             SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
516                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                Chapter 30

                             OVERSEAS HOUSING ALLOWANCE (OHA)

30.1. Description. Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) is authorized to assist members in defraying the
excess costs incurred incident to assignment on permanent duty to a station outside CONUS. Conditions
of entitlement to OHA are contained in the JFTR, Volume I, chapter 9, part B.

30.2. Substantiating Documents:
      30.2.1. The base billeting or housing office furnishes data to the FSO on the DD Form 2367, Individ-
      ual Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) Report. A DD Form 2367 is required on all actions except
      PCS, separation, when BAQ is being changed, or changes resulting from re-certification (see Figure
      30.1.).
      30.2.2. The member is required to complete AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend
      Repayment of an Advance Housing Allowance to Meet Extraordinary Expenses Incident to PCS
      Move (Figure 30.2.), when requesting an advance payment for housing. The AF Form 1039 must
      also contain the approving official's signature.

30.3. Definitions:
      30.3.1. Housing Allowance (HA). Allowance paid to partially offset the high cost of housing in des-
      ignated areas. HA refers to:
         30.3.1.1. OHA
         30.3.1.2. Interim housing allowance
         30.3.1.3. OHA for unaccompanied member with dependents.
      30.3.2. Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA). The allowance paid to members residing overseas or
      for member's dependents residing overseas.
      30.3.3. Interim Housing Allowance. The allowance paid for a maximum of 60 days to a member who
      precedes dependents to an overseas area and who secures non-government family quarters.
      30.3.4. Unaccompanied Housing Allowance to a Member With Dependents. The allowance paid at
      the single rate to a member who is serving an unaccompanied non-command-sponsored tour. The
      member does, in fact, have dependents but those dependents either remained in the CONUS or at
      another overseas area.
      30.3.5. Sharer:
         30.3.5.1. Sharers. Members entitled to OHA who reside with one or more of the following indi-
         viduals:
             30.3.5.1.1. Military members (including spouse).
             30.3.5.1.2. Federal civilian employees, including dependents, entitled to a living quarters
             allowance (LQA).
             30.3.5.1.3. Individuals (excluding dependents of the member) who contribute to the rental or
             ownership expenses of the residence.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              517


30.4. Computation of OHA:
   30.4.1. OHA is based on the difference between a member's BAH-II and FSH, whichever applies, and
   the total of the rent a member pays overseas, within a maximum rent ceiling established for a specific
   area, plus the average utility, recurring maintenance allowance for the specific area. The ceilings for
   members with dependents are based on housing cost data obtained from members in each area con-
   cerned. The ceiling for members with and without dependents are found in the JFTR, Appendix K.
      30.4.1.1. Rent Paid. This element shows the actual rent the member pays for housing costs. The
      rent is as stated in the lease and is reported in the currency in which paid. If the member must pay
      a recurring condominium or homeowner association fee, it should be prorated to a monthly charge
      and included in rent. If the member owns his or her dwelling place, the amount to be considered
      as monthly "rent" is derived by dividing the actual purchase price of the residence by 120. Also,
      the amount of any personal installment type loans (does not include loans used to furnish or deco-
      rate a home or loans for personal reasons, or credit card or line of credit loans) and real estate
      equity loans obtained for the purpose of renovating, repairing or enlarging a personal residence
      will be added to the actual purchase price before determining the derived rent. If the dwelling
      place owned by the member is a mobile home or vessel, the monthly lot rental or berthing fees
      paid will be added to this amount. When the residence is owned by the member (member doesn't
      have a mortgage payment) the derived rent should be reported in US dollars.
      30.4.1.2. Maximum Rent Allowable (MRA). This amount, established by grade, is determined by
      the PDTATAC. This cap ensures the member is not reimbursed for more than a reasonable amount
      of rent. The rent caps are shown in the JFTR, Volume I, appendix K, and on DJMS table 65. Rent
      paid is converted to a United States dollar equivalent and compared to the maximum rent allow-
      able. The OHA allowance is based on the lesser of the two.
      30.4.1.3. Utility/Recurring Maintenance Allowance. The Utility/Recurring Maintenance Allow-
      ance is based on average expenses reported by members with dependents, where possible, and
      found in appendix K to the JFTR. Utility indicators are included in the input transactions to deter-
      mine what, if any, utilities are provided by the landlord. These indicators are based on the climate
      of the geographical area. When processing start or change OHA transactions, ensure allowance
      correctly reflects the information on the DD 2367. For purposes of the Utility/Recurring Mainte-
      nance Allowance, members are classified into one of the following categories:
          30.4.1.3.1. Member married to member and maintaining a joint household; each member may
          be entitled to half of the utility/recurring maintenance allowance.
          30.4.1.3.2. Member defined as sharer in paragraph 30-3; member may be entitled to a pro-rata
          share of the utility/recurring maintenance allowance.
          30.4.1.3.3. Member with dependents; member may be entitled to the entire utility/recurring
          maintenance allowance.
          30.4.1.3.4. Member without dependents who is not defined as a sharer; member may be enti-
          tled to 75 percent of the utility/recurring allowance (unless a specific rate has been established
          for such members in the JFTR).
      30.4.1.4. Move-In Housing Allowance (MIHA). Members entitled to OHA are eligible to receive
      MIHA. The purpose of MIHA is to defray costs incurred on or after 1 Sep 90 which are associated
518                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         with occupying privately leased/owned quarters covered by the OHA program. MIHA is broken
         down into 3 categories:
             30.4.1.4.1. MIHA Miscellaneous - Reflects average expenditures made by members to make
             dwellings habitable. (See JFTR, Appendix N for further information.)
             30.4.1.4.2. MIHA Rent - Payable only when approved by the Housing Office and is not pay-
             able to homeowners. (See JFTR, Appendix N for further information.)
             30.4.1.4.3. MIHA Security - Payable only in specified areas. (See JFTR, Appendix N for fur-
             ther information.)
         30.4.1.5. Total Calculation. These elements are all used in the calculation of OHA. Stated in
         order:
             30.4.1.5.1. Rent is converted to US dollars based on the applicable exchange rate. If the mem-
             ber is a sharer, the member's rent is a pro rata share of total rent.
             30.4.1.5.2. If rent includes all utilities, add the utility/recurring maintenance allowance to the
             maximum rental allowance ceiling. If rent includes none of the utilities or some but not all
             utilities, add the amount of the average utility/recurring maintenance allowance determined
             IAW JFTR, Appendix K.
             30.4.1.5.3. Rent is compared to the maximum rent allowable, determined in (b) above, for the
             specific JFTR location and grade. The lesser of the two is used.
             30.4.1.5.4. Add the rent determined in (c) above, the utility/recurring maintenance allowance
             calculated in 30.4.1.5.2. above, and the MIHA.
             30.4.1.5.5. Subtract the member's BAH or FSH-O or FSH-B from total costs determined in
             30.4.1.5.4. above. The result is the member's OHA. OHA is paid based on a 30-day month.
         30.4.1.6. Using BAH Versus FSH. The applicable rate of BAH is subtracted when the member is
         receiving single BAH or with-dependent BAH when accompanied by dependents. When the
         member precedes dependents (interim housing allowance) or has dependents but elects the unac-
         companied tour, subtract the rate of FSH.
      30.4.2. Rules for Determining Appropriate Utility/Recurring Maintenance Allowance. Utility/Recur-
      ring Maintenance values, as well as utility values and climate codes are contained in the JFTR, Vol-
      ume I, appendix K, and in DJMS tables 65 and 68.
         30.4.2.1. When the member is a homeowner and pays all utilities, the proper allowance will be
         added to the appropriate rental allowance ceiling when computing OHA.
         30.4.2.2. When the member's rent includes all utilities, no utility/recurring maintenance allow-
         ance will be paid.
         30.4.2.3. When the member's rent includes some utilities, the member's utility point score is deter-
         mined by adding the point values for the utilities not checked in block 7c of the DD Form 2367,
         based on the climate code for the PDS.

30.5. Advance Payment of OHA, BAQ, and Security Deposit:
      30.5.1. An advance payment of overseas housing allowance is payable upon request of the member
      when authorized by the Base Housing Officer and approved by member's Commander. The member
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            519


  is required to complete AF Form 1039 (Figure 30.2.) when requesting an advance payment for hous-
  ing and/or extending the repayment. The AF Form 1039 must also contain the approving official's
  signature. Liquidation of the advance will usually be at a rate of not less than equal monthly install-
  ments of 1/12 the amount advanced per month for the next 12 months. Repayment, however, must not
  be less than $50 per month.
  30.5.2. Collection action will begin on the first day of the month after payment of the advance has
  been made. When justified by the member, postponement or extension of repayment may be autho-
  rized by the member's commander. An advance housing allowance may be authorized for the pur-
  chase of personal property needed to occupy economy housing, but is limited to those items necessary
  for occupancy and reasonable in nature. The guide to be used to determine the amount of advance
  housing allowance a member may receive for the purchase of personal property is AFI 32-6004
  (Attachment 8), plus major appliances. Attachment 8 lists the items that the government would fur-
  nish if the items were available or if government quarters were assigned.
  30.5.3. Normally an advance housing allowance must not be paid more than 3 workdays before the
  member is required to make payment under a lease or purchase plan, and except in extraordinary cir-
  cumstances, payment must be made within 30 days after occupancy. This 30-day period allows a
  member sufficient time to move in and determine any extra costs associated with the new quarters that
  were not readily apparent before or immediately upon occupancy. When extraordinary circumstances
  warrant, a waiver of the 30-day period may be approved by the Base Housing Officer. The member is
  required to submit a written request to the housing officer. This request is to briefly state the reason
  for the delayed advance and show that the funds are needed to meet advance rent, security deposits, or
  initial expenses. The housing officer is required to approve or disapprove the payment. This approval
  is attached to the payment voucher. The amount of the advance should not exceed the total of 1 year's
  allowance expected to be accrued by the member. A larger amount may be authorized, if needed, to
  cover anticipated housing expenses. In no case will the advance payment exceed the member's antic-
  ipated housing expenses or the OHA and BAQ accruable during the member's tour at that station,
  whichever is less. An advance under a purchase plan will also not exceed the normal rental deposit
  required for suitable housing for a member of the applicant's grade and dependency status. If the
  rental deposit required for suitable housing is not available, 1/120th of the purchase price (per JFTR,
  Volume I, appendix K, paragraph 2) may be used as the equivalent of 1 month's rent plus charges for
  installation fees, if charged separately. When an advance under the purchase plan is given the mem-
  ber, the amount must be based on utility deposits and initial expenses and the advance must not be
  used in the purchase (closing costs, upgrades, etc.).
  30.5.4. The advance may be paid to an eligible member to meet extraordinary expenses of obtaining
  or occupying other than government housing in the vicinity of the member's duty station. Extraordi-
  nary "moving in" expenses should be reflected in the applicable blocks 4a, 4b, and 4c of AF Form
  1039. Block "4d other" is not valid for Air Force use and should not be used. Extraordinary expenses
  include such items as:
     30.5.4.1. Security deposits.
     30.5.4.2. Installation fees.
     30.5.4.3. Advance rent or lease.
  30.5.5. As a minimum requirement, a copy of the rental or purchase agreement should support the
  member's request for advance. The approving authority is required to retain copies of all supporting
520                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      purchase contracts and rental agreements for the length of the member's tour. The approving authority
      may require a financial statement or other proof of need when considered necessary.
      30.5.6. In service-couple cases or rent-sharing plans, the combined assets, allowances, and expenses
      of the occupants are considered in making determinations.
      30.5.7. The approving authority submits the approved AF Form 1039 to the FSO for payment. Sup-
      porting documentation for the advance should be filed in the approving office. Normally the advance
      should not be paid more than 3 workdays before the member is required to make payment under a
      lease or purchase plan. For personnel at a duty location not having a local payment office, the advance
      may be paid earlier as required by mail or transportation schedules. If the lease or purchase plan is not
      completed, the advance must be repaid in full immediately.
      30.5.8. An advance payment of an OHA for a purchase plan may be made only once during a mem-
      ber's tour unless the home is damaged or destroyed beyond habitation and the home was not covered
      by compensable insurance. (Request for exceptions to this provision may be forwarded with justifica-
      tion and recommendations through approval channels to HQ USAF/DPPC.)
      30.5.9. Additional advances covering rental plans may be approved at any time for valid reasons as
      determined by the approving authority. Valid reasons include housing removed from rental market or
      member required larger, less expensive, or closer accommodations. Outstanding advances remaining
      upon authorization of an additional advance will be added to the additional amount and a new repay-
      ment schedule established.
      30.5.10. Refer to Attachment 3 for the proper advance pay category to use in the advance transaction
      and the CICS TRANS ID "JPBB". If payment is made locally, process a PA03 to report the payment.
      If payment is made via EFT, use CICS TRANS ID "JPBB" (see subparagraph 38.9.2. for detailed
      information on this application) to request the advance payment. If the advance requested includes a
      security deposit over $500, make two separate payments (as specified above). One for the OHA/BAQ
      (type B) portion, the other for the security deposit (type S) part. Both can be paid on the same voucher
      number, but must be input separately. Collection of the advance security deposit, if greater than $500,
      can be suspended until the member vacates the housing for which the advance was requested, using
      the PA03 transaction or "JPBB". This will help preclude financial hardship that may be caused by the
      member having to liquidate a large advance payment which will, in all likelihood, be refunded when
      he or she moves out. Lump sum recoupment will not exceed the amount of money returned to the
      member by the landlord. Any balance of an advance not returned by the landlord may be liquidated in
      up to 12 monthly installments, if desired by the member. See Figure 30.16. for the advance pay (PA)
      format and subparagraph k below for collection.
NOTE: When justified by the member and approved by the member's commander, this suspension may
be for up to 96 months, but in no case will the collection remain suspended for longer than the member
occupies the housing.
         30.5.10.1. Disburse advance security deposits in local currency. Annotate the current exchange
         rate on the voucher and maintain a manual suspense file until the member vacates the housing for
         which it was paid. When housing is terminated and the member brings in the amount received
         from the landlord:
             30.5.10.1.1. Clear the DV if all of the advance is returned by the member.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          521


         30.5.10.1.2. If the entire amount is returned to the member, any dollar difference, between the
         amount received from the landlord at the current exchange rate and the amount originally dis-
         bursed to the member at the previous exchange rate, is charged or credited to a project in the
         military personnel appropriation.
            30.5.10.1.2.1. If the total amount collected now represents a gain, due to a favorable cur-
            rency fluctuation, the gain is credited to 57*3500 project 514.05 for officers, 534.05 for
            enlisted members.
            30.5.10.1.2.2. If the total amount collected now represents a loss, due to an unfavorable
            currency fluctuation, the loss is charged to 57*3500 project 514.05 for officers, 534.05 for
            enlisted members.
         30.5.10.1.3. If the member damages the property (breaks a door, etc.) and receives less than
         the full amount from the landlord because of the damage, compute the amount that must be set
         up as a debt to be collected through installment payments. The computation is based on the
         total dollar amount returned, taking into consideration the difference between the exchange
         rate on the date the member received the advance and the current rate, and after deducting any
         gain or loss due to currency fluctuation, determining the balance remaining outstanding. The
         following example illustrates this computation:
            30.5.10.1.3.1. Member gets a 6,000 pound advance security deposit on 7/1/95, at an
            exchange rate of $2 to 1. Debt established, and suspended, in the amount of $12,000.
            30.5.10.1.3.2. On 7/1/97, member received 5,500 pounds from landlord upon vacating the
            rental. Member damaged a window and a door. Exchange rate on 7/1/97 is $1.97 to 1.
            30.5.10.1.3.3. Member repays 5,500 pounds to the finance office. Difference in exchange
            rate from 7/1/95 to 7/1/97 is $165.00 loss, which is charged to the applicable project.
            30.5.10.1.3.4. Member owes 500 pounds, which equates to $985 instead of the original
            rate of $1,000 (500 pound difference times original $2 to 1). The $15 loss ($1,000 minus
            $985) is charged to the appropriate project.
            30.5.10.1.3.5. Member has a $985 debt that may be liquidated in monthly installments.
     30.5.10.2. If the open DV has an action indicator of Q8, the DT04 will not process. Wait until the
     update after the first of the month, and the action indicator will change to 01, then process the
     DT04.
     30.5.10.3. Once the DT04 has processed changing the deduction to zero, a management file must
     be created to track the suspense to open the collection at the appropriate time.
  30.5.11. The initial installment for the advance OHA (type B) may be delayed up to three months
  with the member's commander's approval. Use a PA03 transaction to delay the start of collection.
  Normally, repayment of the advance OHA/BAQ (type B) is at a rate of 1/12 per month for 12 months,
  but may be extended, when justified by the member and approved by the member's commander, for up
  to 60 months, not to exceed the length of the member's tour.
  30.5.12. Distribution of AF Form 1039. The FSO uses AF Form 265, FSO Payment Authorization
  (JUMPS), to authorize payment for local payees. The EFT pay request/authorization form will be
  used to authorize payments for central payees. The AF Form 1039 is attached to the original AF Form
  265 or a copy of EFT payment request/authorization form depending on which one was used. For
522                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      requests to extend repayment periods, made subsequent to the advance, the AF Form 1039 is attached
      to the DTL for submission to DFAS-DE as support for the request. Copies of the AF Form 1039 are
      distributed as follows:
         30.5.12.1. Original -- attached to payment voucher/EFT form or DTL (as applicable).
         30.5.12.2. Second copy -- member.
         30.5.12.3. Third copy -- approving official.
         30.5.12.4. Fourth copy -- FSO hold copy.

30.6. Special Provisions:
      30.6.1. Payment of OHA While on Terminal Leave. When a member receiving OHA returns to
      CONUS for terminal leave and subsequent separation, the losing FSO must process a stop transaction
      to stop the housing allowance. If the member returns to overseas area, process a report transaction to
      adjust housing allowance.
      30.6.2. Member Reassigned and Dependents Remain in Overseas Area:
         30.6.2.1. When a member is assigned to a restricted overseas area and the dependents remain at
         the old station, the FSO of the member's new duty station must restart the overseas housing enti-
         tlement as well as start the restricted area housing if applicable.
         30.6.2.2. When a member is assigned to CONUS and the dependents remain at the old station
         where overseas housing is authorized for dependents, the CONUS FSO restarts the OHA as well
         as dual housing if applicable.
      30.6.3. Housing Allowance While in a PCS Status: Housing allowances being paid under the OHA
      system stops 1 day before the date departed last duty station (DDLDS) as shown in the PCS departure
      (SH03) transaction. If the DDLDS in the PCS arrival (SG03) transaction is different from that in the
      SH03, the housing allowance is corrected accordingly.

30.7. Format IDs for Paying Overseas Housing Allowances:
      30.7.1. FID 42 -- Move-In Housing Allowance (Figure 30.3.).
      30.7.2. FID 43 -- Overseas Housing Allowance, Without ITOA (Figure 30.4. through Figure 30.5.).
      30.7.3. FID 44 -- Interim Housing Allowance, Without ITOA (Figure 30.6. through Figure 30.7.).
      30.7.4. FID 45 -- Dual Housing, Without ITOA (Unaccompanied Housing to a Member with Depen-
      dents, or Member Accompanied by Non-Command Sponsored Dependents). (See Figure 30.8.
      through Figure 30.9.)
      30.7.5. FID 55 -- Overseas Housing Allowance, With ITOA (Figure 30.10. through Figure 30.11.).
      30.7.6. FID 56 -- Interim Housing Allowance, With ITOA (Figure 30.12. through Figure 30.13.).
      30.7.7. FID 57 -- Dual Housing, With ITOA (Unaccompanied Housing to a Member with Depen-
      dents, or Member Accompanied by Non-Command Sponsored Dependents). (See Figure 30.14.
      through Figure 30.15.)

30.8. Interface with BAQ:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             523


  30.8.1. Processing Housing Transaction -- Special Consistency Edits With BAQ:
     30.8.1.1. FORMAT-IDs 43 and 55:
         30.8.1.1.1. STARTS. All housing starts must be compatible with BAQ. To keep consistency,
         BAQ is checked from the effective date of the housing start through the end of the current
         month. Items checked are the government quarters assignment code and the number of depen-
         dents for BAQ. The configuration of the BAQ entry determines if the housing transaction will
         process, recycle, or reject. The first check is against the quarters assignment code. If that code
         is a 1, meaning assigned government quarters, the transaction is recycled waiting for BAQ to
         be updated. The recycle period is 15 days processing at 3-day intervals. Each time the trans-
         action attempts to process and finds that BAQ has not been updated, the transaction will recy-
         cle awaiting update of BAQ. If, on the 15th day, BAQ has not been updated, the start
         transaction rejects to the servicing FSO with error codes MCQ, EJD. Thus, to pass the first
         edit, the MMPA BAQ entry must contain a "QTR-ASSGN" code of a "2" and must be compat-
         ible with the NR DEPN-BAQ/HOUS-ACCOM-STAT reflected on the 43/55, housing transac-
         tion or, the transaction is immediately rejected with error code EJD. If the BAQ entry shows
         no assigned quarters from the effective date forward, the second edit is performed against the
         number of BAQ dependents. If the housing accompanied status equals zero, the NR-DEPNS
         = BAQ must be zero; but if the number of BAQ dependents is 1 throughout the period of enti-
         tlement, the housing transaction will recycle as mentioned above. If the number of BAQ
         dependents was changed after the housing transaction effective date, the transaction rejects. If
         the BAQ closest dependency code equals X, the accompanied OHA entry will process; or if
         the assignment code is ‘1’ and the adequacy code is ‘4’, the OHA transaction will process.
         Specific conditions and examples:
            30.8.1.1.1.1. HOUSING ACCOMPANIED STATUS = 0. This transaction is used exclu-
            sively for single member receiving single BAQ. If the ACCOM STAT=0, BAQ QUAR-
            TERS-ASSIGNMENT- Code must be a code 2 (not assigned qtrs) for the entire period of
            entitlement. If a QUARTERS-ASSIGNMENT-CODE = 1 for the entire period of entitle-
            ment, the transaction is recycled with error code REE (T-RECYCLED-GOVERNMENT
            ASSIGNMENT AND OR NUMBER DEPENDENTS BAQ are incompatible with hous-
            ing accommodation status, update BAQ). If the QUARTERS-ASSIGNMENT-CODE = 1
            for a portion of the period and = 2 for another portion, the transaction will be rejected EJD
            (GOVERNMENT-QUARTERS ASSIGNMENT AND/OR NUMBER DEPENDENTS
            BAQ/HOUSING ACCOMPANIED STATUS are incompatible). Exception to this process
            will occur when the assignment code is ‘1’ and the adequacy code is ‘4’, the OHA transac-
            tion will process, even though the member is assigned to a dorm. The following examples
            apply:
524                                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



5501 Effective = 910701            810701              810730        810701                810730
T-EFF-DATE = 910701                ACCOM-STAT = 0                    ACCOM-STAT = 0
END OF CURR-MO = 910730            QTRS-ASSGN = 1                    QTRS-ASSGN = 1        QTRS-ASSGN=2
ACCOM-STAT= 0                      RECYCLED TRANSACTION              REJECTED TRANSACTION
QTRS-ASSGN = 2
PROCESSED TRANSACTION

                    30.8.1.1.1.1.1. A compatibility in number of dependents is required. This field must
                    be 0 for the entire period of time. If it is not 0 for the entire period, the transaction will
                    be recycled with error code REE. If the number of dependents changed during the
                    period of entitlement, the transaction will be rejected EJD. The following examples
                    apply:

810701            810730           810701                810730           810701             810730
ACCOM-STAT = 0                     ACCOM-STAT = 0                         ACCOM-STAT = 0
QTRS-ASSGN = 2                     QTRS-ASSGN = 2                         QTRS-ASSGN=2
NR-DEPNS = 0                       NR-DEPNS = 1                           NR-DEPNS = 0       NR DPENS = 1
PROCESSED TRANSACTION              RECYCLED TRANSACTION                   REJECTED TRANSACTION

                30.8.1.1.1.2. HOUSING ACCOMPANIED STATUS = 1. DEPENDENTS IN AREA.
                The same theory that applies to the accompanied status of 0 is applied to the accompanied
                status of 1. This status represents a married member whose dependents are in the area.
                The edit against the quarters assignment code is not changed; that is, it must equal 2 for the
                full period of entitlement. But in this situation the number of dependents for BAQ must =
                1 for the entire period of entitlement. This shows BAQ with dependents. The following
                examples apply:

810701            810730            810701            810730          810701              810730
ACCOM-STAT = 1                      ACCOM-STAT = 1                    ACCOM-STAT = 1
QTRS-ASSGN = 2                      QTRS-ASSGN = 2                    QTRS-ASSGN=2
NR-DEPNS = 1                        NR-DEPNS = 0                      NR-DEPNS = 0        NR DPENS = 1
PROCESSED TRANSACTION               RECYCLED TRANSACTION              REJECTED TRANSACTION

                30.8.1.1.1.3. HOUSING ACCOMPANIED STATUS = 1. DEPENDENTS RESIDING
                ELSEWHERE. This process will occur when member has dependents residing elsewhere
                and has been assigned to unaccompanied personnel housing. When the quarters-assign-
                ment code is ‘1’, quarters-adequacy code is ‘4’, and the number of dependents is ‘1’, start
                transactions for housing allowances (i.e., FIDS 44, 45, 55, or 57) will process. If BAQ
                quarters adequacy code is changed from ‘4’ to any other code and quarters assignment
                remains 1, then all housing allowances (FIDS 43, 44, 45, 55, 57 or 55) will stop. If BAQ
                is changed to a without-dependent rate, housing allowances OHA (FID 44) or dual OHA
                (FID 45 or 57) will stop effective the day before the change or correction. If BAQ quarters
                assignment code of 2 is changed to 1 and the BAQ adequacy code remains ‘4’, the OHA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          525


           (FID 43 or FID 55) will not change, but it will stop interim OHA (FID 44) or dual OHA
           (FID 45 or 57) effective the day before the change or correction date, and an X104 man-
           agement notice will be issued.
        30.8.1.1.2. STOPS AND CANCELS. On receipt of a stop or cancel transaction, the entitle-
        ment is stopped or canceled at the rate established on the MMPA.
        30.8.1.1.3. REPORTS. As with start transactions, report transactions must be compatible with
        BAQ entitlement. Quarters assignment code must be 2 (not assigned). If there is a period of
        both assigned and not assigned after the effective date of housing, the transaction rejects with
        error code EJD, GOVT-QTRS-ASSIGN AND/OR NR-DEPN-Q--HOUS-ACCOMP-STATUS
        INCOMPATIBLE. If the quarters assignment code is 2 (not assigned government quarters),
        the second edit is against the number of dependents. If the housing accompanied status is zero,
        the number of BAQ dependents must be zero. If it is not, the transaction will recycle pending
        a change to BAQ. When the number of BAQ dependents is changed to zero, the transaction
        will process.
        30.8.1.1.4. CHANGES: The 4304 and 5504 transaction may change:
           30.8.1.1.4.1. JTR Location.
           30.8.1.1.4.2. Rent Paid.
           30.8.1.1.4.3. Currency Code.
           30.8.1.1.4.4. Utility Indicator.
           30.8.1.1.4.5. Accompanied Status.
           As many items as necessary may be changed in one transaction. Since there is a direct link
           between BAQ and housing, the change of accompanied status should be necessary only
           when going from 2 to 0 or 0 to 2.
        30.8.1.1.5. CORRECTS. The correct transaction is used to correct erroneous data that was
        originally submitted. Any item may be corrected.
     30.8.1.2. FORMAT-IDs 44 and 56:
        30.8.1.2.1. START. Interim housing allowance cannot be started unless the member is receiv-
        ing BAQ with dependents or no BAQ at all. BAQ with dependents is defined as
        GOVT-QTRS-ASSIGNMENT-CODE = 2 and BAQ-NR-DEPNS = 1. The same basic edits
        are made as in 30.8.1. above.
           30.8.1.2.1.1. If the member is receiving partial BAQ for the entire period of entitlement,
           the transaction will be recycled with error code REE.
           30.8.1.2.1.2. If the member is receiving without-dependent BAQ for the entire period of
           entitlement, the transaction will be recycled REE.
           30.8.1.2.1.3. If the member has no BAQ for the entire period, the transaction will be pro-
           cessed. If the FORMAT ID (FID) is 44 or 56, FSA Type 1 will be used as an offset in the
           OHA calculation.
526                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


            30.8.1.2.1.4. If the member has BAQ with dependents for the entire period the transaction
            will be processed. If the FID is 56, FSA Type 1 will be used as an offset in the OHA cal-
            culation.
            30.8.1.2.1.5. If the member has any combination of the type of BAQ mentioned in
            30.8.1.2.1.1. and 30.8.1.2.1.2. above, the transaction will be rejected with error code EJD.
         30.8.1.2.2. STOP/CANCEL. Interim Housing Allowance (IHA) is stopped by a 4402 or 5602
         and canceled by a 4406 or 5606 transaction, or by the receipt of an OHA start (4301 or 5501)
         transaction. If none of the above inputs are received, IHA is automatically stopped 60 calen-
         dar days from the effective date.
         30.8.1.2.3. REPORTS. IHA report transactions follow the same BAQ consistency guidelines.
         A report transaction cannot exceed 60 days.
         30.8.1.2.4. CHANGE. A change transaction will change all items except the accompanied
         status code.
         30.8.1.2.5. CORRECT. A correct transaction will correct the original entitlement that has
         erroneous data such as dates, etc. If dates are corrected, the total span of entitlement cannot
         exceed 60 days.
      30.8.1.3. FORMAT-IDs 45 and 57:
         30.8.1.3.1. STARTS AND REPORTS. Consistency edits between BAQ and housing allow-
         ance must be met to allow processing.
            30.8.1.3.1.1. If the member is receiving partial BAQ for the entire period of entitlement,
            the transaction will be recycled with error-code REE.
            30.8.1.3.1.2. If the member is receiving BAQ without dependents for the entire period of
            entitlement, the transaction will be recycled with error code REE.
            30.8.1.3.1.3. If member has no BAQ for the entire period of entitlement, the transaction
            will process. If the FID is 45 or 57, FSA will be edited (see 30.8.1.3.1.6. and 30.8.1.3.1.7.
            below).
            30.8.1.3.1.4. If member has BAQ with dependents for the entire period of entitlement, the
            transaction will process. If the FID is 45 or 57, FSA will be edited (see 30.8.1.3.1.6. and
            30.8.1.3.1.7. below).
            30.8.1.3.1.5. If the member has any combination of the types of BAQ (1 through 4) above,
            the transaction will be rejected EJD.
            30.8.1.3.1.6. If the member has FSA type 1 for the entire period of entitlement, the trans-
            action will be processed.
            30.8.1.3.1.7. If the member has no FSA type 1, the LE entry will be checked for duty
            country of 15 (Hawaii). If 15, the transaction will be processed. If not 15, the transaction
            will be processed and UV03 management notice sent to the servicing FSO. The literal
            explanation is: "Housing Processed. Check entitlement to FSA type 1."
         30.8.1.3.2. RECYCLES. All recycles mentioned are for 15 days processing in 3-day inter-
         vals, generating the UCO3 management notice (JTR-LOCATION (T), JTR-LOCATION (M)
         INCOMPATIBLE).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             527


   30.8.2. BAQ Interfaces With OHA. Changes have been made to ensure BAQ and housing remain
   compatible. The OHA interface with BAQ has been changed to allow parameter passing between
   programs. What this means is, housing will be changed at the same time BAQ is changed. If for any
   reason housing cannot be updated, the BAQ will still be changed and a processed transaction for
   review will be provided to DFAS-DE/FJP. The following actions cause interactions between BAQ
   and housing.
       30.8.2.1. FORMAT-IDs 43 and 55: (See Figure 30.4. through Figure 30.5. and Figure 30.10.
       through Figure 30.11.)
           30.8.2.1.1. 3502-BAQ stopped; OHA present and is stopped. An X102 is sent when a BAQ
           stop transaction is processed and a 43, 45, 55, or 57 entry is present. A computer generated
           OHA stop transaction has processed. Adjust member's OHA entitlement if applicable.
           30.8.2.1.2. BAQ is changed to substandard quarters--Housing is stopped. An X101 manage-
           ment notice is sent to the servicing FSO.
           30.8.2.1.3. BAQ is changed to partial--Housing is stopped.
           30.8.2.1.4. BAQ is changed from single to with-dependents or from with-dependents to sin-
           gle--Housing is not changed. An X103 management notice is sent to the servicing FSO.
           30.8.2.1.5. BAQ is corrected from single to with-dependents or from with-dependents to sin-
           gle--Housing is not changed. An X103 management notice is sent to the servicing FSO.
           30.8.2.1.6. Start date of a BAQ entry is corrected--Housing start date is corrected.
           30.8.2.1.7. Stop date of a BAQ entry is corrected--Housing stop date is corrected.
           30.8.2.1.8. BAQ is corrected to substandard quarters--Housing will be stopped.
           30.8.2.1.9. BAQ is corrected to partial--Housing will be stopped.
           30.8.2.1.10. BAQ is canceled--Housing will be canceled.
NOTE: Whenever a BAQ transaction corrects housing above, housing will only be corrected if the effec-
tive date is an open BAQ/housing entry. If any portion of a history entry is being corrected, the housing
will not be corrected, an X103 management notice will be issued, and a housing correct transaction will
be required. Whenever BAQ changes or corrects OHA, the utility indicator must be verified. The BAQ
transaction will not change a utility code. A separate OHA transaction is required if the utility indicator
requires changing.
       30.8.2.2. FORMAT-IDs 44, 56, 45 and 57: (see Figure 30.6. through Figure 30.7., Figure 30.12.
       through Figure 30.13., Figure 30.8. through Figure 30.9. and Figure 30.14. through Figure
       30.15.).
           30.8.2.2.1. BAQ is stopped--Unaccompanied Housing (FIDs 45 and 57) are stopped, but
           Interim Housing Allowance (FIDs 44 and 56) continue. An X102 management notice is sent
           to the servicing FSO when housing is stopped.
           30.8.2.2.2. BAQ is changed/corrected to substandard quarters--Housing stops.
           30.8.2.2.3. BAQ is changed/corrected to partial--Housing stops.
           30.8.2.2.4. BAQ is changed/corrected to single--Housing stops.
528                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             30.8.2.2.5. Dates in BAQ are corrected--No interface with Housing.
             30.8.2.2.6. BAQ is canceled--Unaccompanied Housing (FIDs 45 and 57) are stopped, but
             Interim Housing (FIDs 44 and 56) continue. An X102 management notice is sent to the ser-
             vicing FSO when housing is stopped.
NOTE: Since the amount of housing allowance is directly dependent upon BAQ, it is imperative BAQ
and housing remain consistent.
      30.8.3. Requirements for BAQ With-dependents.
         30.8.3.1. When there is no entitlement to BAQ with-dependents, the only OHA entitlement is
         DUAL OHA (FID 45 or 57). Input of regular OHA transactions (FID 43 or 55) will recycle until
         the MMPA entry is changed or corrected, or the input is modified to agree with the MMPA.
         30.8.3.2. DUAL OHA is not payable when the quarters adequacy code indicates the member is
         residing in government quarters while receiving BAQ with-dependents (adequacy code 4). 45/
         57XX transactions with accompanied status of 0 will recycle until the MMPA entry is changed or
         corrected, or the input is modified to agree with the MMPA.

30.9. Move-In Housing Allowance (MIHA):
      30.9.1. Move-In Housing Allowance (MIHA). Members entitled to OHA on or after 1 Sep 90 are eli-
      gible to receive MIHA in lieu of ITOA. The purpose of MIHA is to defray costs incurred on or after
      1 Sep 90 which are associated with occupying privately leased/owned quarters covered by the OHA
      program. MIHA will totally replace ITOA on 1 Sep 93. MIHA is broken down into 3 categories:
         30.9.1.1. MIHA Miscellaneous - Reflects average expenditures made by members to make dwell-
         ings habitable. (See JFTR, Appendix N for further information.)
         30.9.1.2. MIHA Rent - Payable only when approved by the Housing Office and is not payable to
         homeowners. (See JFTR, Appendix N for further information.)
         30.9.1.3. MIHA Security - Payable only in specified areas. (See JFTR, Appendix N for further
         information.)
      30.9.2. Move-In Housing Allowance (MIHA) Processing -- FID 42. (See Figure 30.3.)
         30.9.2.1. General. MIHA is processed as a one-time entitlement, supplement to OHA. OHA
         must be established prior to reporting MIHA. MIHA was not paid before 1 Sep 1990.
         30.9.2.2. Reports -- 4203 Transactions: Effective date, JFTR location, MIHA type, and OHA
         entitlement for which MIHA is paid are edited against the MMPA OHA entitlements.
             30.9.2.2.1. Miscellaneous (Type M) is payable with OHA format IDs 43, 44, and 45 and is
             paid based on table rates. The transaction entitlement amount is zero filled.
             30.9.2.2.2. Rent (Type R) is payable with OHA format IDs 43, 44, and 45. Report the total
             rental amount in dollars and cents in the entitlement field.
             30.9.2.2.3. Security (Type S) is payable with OHA format IDs 43, 44, 45, 55, 56, and 57.
             Report the total security amount in dollars and cents in the entitlement field. This MIHA type
             is also edited for validity of security location.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          529


       30.9.2.3. Corrects -- 4205 Transactions: Any field can be corrected. The entitlement is canceled,
       using the MMPA entry data and reprocessed using the corrected data.
       30.9.2.4. Cancels -- 4206 Transactions: The entitlement is canceled using the MMPA entry data.

30.10. Interim Housing Allowance (IHA). A member who is required to and does procure non-Govern-
ment family type housing before the dependents arrive is entitled to OHA as a member with dependents
for a period beginning on the date of procurement of such housing and terminating 60 days thereafter, or
on the day before the day the dependents arrive in the vicinity of the PDS, whichever occurs first. Pay-
ment of IHA must be supported by a statement of the commanding officer, or designee, that the member:
   30.10.1. has applied for transportation of dependents to the PDS;
   30.10.2. was required by orders of regulation to procure non-Government family-type housing as a
   condition of the acceptance of the application;
   30.10.3. has evidence of rental or purchase payments, as appropriate, for the period for which the
   allowance is claimed.

30.11. FSO Actions. Management notices are sent, Via JDC to the FSO for further action:
   30.11.1. X1:
       30.11.1.1. 02--BAQ STOPPED; HA PRESENT AND WILL BE STOPPED. An X103 is sent
       when BAQ is corrected and a 55 is present. A computer HA stop transaction has processed.
       30.11.1.2. 03--BAQ UPDATED; HA PRESENT BUT NOT UPDATED. An X103 is sent when
       BAQ is changed, corrected, or canceled and there is an open OHA or VHA entitlement. Adjust
       member's entitlement when applicable.
       30.11.1.3. 04--BAQ UPDATED; HOUS UPDATED VERIFY ENTITLEMENT. An X104 is sent
       when a 3504 or 3505 is processed that updated the BAQ-NR-DEPENDENTS.
   30.11.2. UC03: BAQ/HOUS INCOMPATIBLE; UPDATE BAQ. The UC03 is sent when a housing
   start transaction is received and there is no BAQ on the MMPA or the BAQ and housing are not com-
   patible. The FSO has 9 days to update BAQ. The transaction recycles for the 9 days, then rejects if
   BAQ has not been updated.

30.12. Re-certification. For re-certification instructions, see Chapter 32.
530                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.1. DD Form 2367, Individual Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) Report. (To report
member's OHA housing data.)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              531


Figure 30.2. AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment of an Advance Housing
Allowance.
532                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.3. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct MIHA Entitlement.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      04203/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


      32-38     AMOUNT SPECIFIC ENTITLEMENT; ZEROS IF MIHA TYPE IS M; BLANK
                FOR ACTION INDICATOR 06


       39       MIHA TYPE:
                M—MISCELLANEOUS
                R—RENT
                S--SECURITY


      40-44     JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


      45-48     PAYING ADSN OR BLANK IF SAME AS INPUT SOURCE OR IF ACTION
                INDICATOR IS 06


      49-50     OHA FORMAT-ID MIHA IS PAID FOR:
                43--OHA
                44--INTERIM OHA
                45--DUAL OHA


       1-5      04205


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               533


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    20-25    CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


    32-38    CORRECT AMOUNT SPECIFIC ENTITLEMENT OR ZEROS IF MIHA TYPE
             IS M


     39      CORRECT MIHA TYPE:
             M--MISCELLANEOUS
             R--RENT
             S--SECURITY


    40-44    CORRECT JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


    45-48    CORRECT PAYING ADSN


    49-50    CORRECT OHA FORMAT-ID MIHA IS PAID FOR:
             OHA FORMAT-ID MIHA IS PAID FOR:
             43--OHA
             44--INTERIM OHA
             45--DUAL OHA


    54-59    PRIOR EFFECTIVE DATE


     60      PRIOR MIHA TYPE


    61-65    PRIOR JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


    66-67    PRIOR OHA FORMAT-ID
534                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.4. Formats to Start, Stop, Report or Change Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      A4301 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      32-36     JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
                1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
                ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
                2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
                AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
                SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)


      40-47     ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49     CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY CODE:
                M--MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O--OTHER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 535


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             BLANK


     52      RENT STATUS:
             R--RENTING
             H--HOMEOWNER
             O--OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK




     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK
536                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



       57     UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
              0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       1-5    14301 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O


       1-5    04302


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF LAST DAY THAT ENTITLEMENT IS TO BE PAID


       1-5    A4303 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      26-31   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              537


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    32-36    JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


     38      ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
             0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
             1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
             ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
             2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
             AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
             SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)



    40-47    THE ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


    48-49    CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


     50      SHARE NUMBER:
             1--IF NOT SHARING
             2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
             3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
             4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


     51      SHARE CATEGORY:
             M—MILITARY
             D--DOD EMPLOYEE
             O—OTHER
             BLANK


     52      RENT STATUS:
             R—RENTING
             H—HOMEOWNER
             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
538                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      55    UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
            0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--IF COLD CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      56    UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
            0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK

      57    UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
            0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK




      1-5   14303 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              539


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O


     1-5     A4304 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


    32-36    JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


     38      ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
             0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
             1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
             ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
             2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
             AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
             SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)


    40-47    ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


    48-49    CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


     50      SHARE NUMBER:
             1--IF NOT SHARING
             2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
             3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
             4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC
540                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      51    SHARE CATEGORY:
            M—MILITARY
            D--DOD EMPLOYEE
            O—OTHER
            BLANK


      52    RENT STATUS:
            R—RENTING
            H—HOMEOWNER
            O—OTHER


      53    UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK




      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      55    UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
            0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--IF COLD CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            541


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     1-5     14304 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O
542                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.5. Format to Correct or Cancel Overseas Housing Allowance – OHA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      A4305 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25     CORRECT YYMMDD OF START DATE OR ZEROS


      26-31     CORRECT YYMMDD OF STOP DATE OR ZEROS


      32-36     JFTR LOCATION


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
                1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
                ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
                2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
                AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
                SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)


      40-47     CORRECT AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
                AMOUNT OF RENT PAID ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


      48-49     CORRECT CURRENCY CODE IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
                CURRENCY CODE ON MMPA IS NOT BEING CORRECTED


       50       CORRECT SHARE NUMBER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
                NUMBER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       51       CORRECT SHARE CATEGORY IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
                CATEGORY ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                543


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    52    CORRECT RENT STATUS IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR RENT
          STATUS ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


     53      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY IF ITEM IS BEING
             CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY ON MMPA IF NOT
             BEING CORRECTED (0 OR 3)


     54      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
             UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2
             OR 3)


     55      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING IF ITEM IS BEING
             CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING ON MMPA IF
             NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2 OR 3)


     56      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
             OR UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
             OR 1)


     57      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
             OR UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
             OR 1)




     1-5     14305 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    CORRECT YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENT-LEASE; SAME DATE AS MMPA
             RENT-LEASE IF NOT BEING CORRECTED; MAY BE BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O
544                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   26-31  PRIOR-DATE-START: START DATE OF ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
          ZEROS


      32-37   PRIOR-DATE-STOP: STOP DATE ON ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
              ZEROS


       1-5    04306


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTED OR ZEROS


      26-31   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPPED OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                545


Figure 30.6. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Interim Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       A4401 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


     32-36      JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS: ALWAYS 1


     40-47      ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


     48-49      CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                BLANK


       52       RENT STATUS:
                R—RENTING
                H—HOMEOWNER
546                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


            O—OTHER


      53    UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      55    UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
            0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--IF COLD CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK



      56    UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
            0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      57    UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
            0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      1-5   14401 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            547


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O


     1-5     04402


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF LAST DAY ENTITLEMENT IS TO BE PAID


     1-5     A4403 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


    26-31    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS


    32-36    JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


     38      ACCOMPANIED STATUS: ALWAYS 1


    40-47    ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


    48-49    CURRENCY CODE
548                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      50    SHARE NUMBER:
            1--IF NOT SHARING
            2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
            3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
            4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC




      51    SHARE CATEGORY:
            M—MILITARY
            D--DOD EMPLOYEE
            O—OTHER
            BLANK


      52    RENT STATUS:
            R—RENTING
            H—HOMEOWNER
            O—OTHER


      53    UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 549


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     1-5     14403 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME

    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O
550                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.7. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Interim Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      A4404 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


      32-36     JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS: ALWAYS 1


      40-47     ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49     CURRENCY CODE


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                BLANK


       52       RENT STATUS:
                R—RENTING
                H—HOMEOWNER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 551


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK



     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     1-5     14404 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)
552                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O


       1-5    A4405 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   CORRECT START DATE OR MMPA START DATE OR ZEROS


      26-31   CORRECT STOP DATE OR ZEROS


      32-36   JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38     ACCOMPANIED STATUS: ALWAYS 1
        7
      40-47   CORRECT AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49   CORRECT CURRENCY CODE


       50     CORRECT SHARE NUMBER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
              NUMBER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       51     CORRECT SHARE CATEGORY IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
              CATEGORY ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       52     CORRECT RENT STATUS IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR RENT
              STATUS ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                553


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     53      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY IF ITEM IS BEING
             CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY ON MMPA IF NOT
             BEING CORRECTED (0 OR 3)


     54      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
             UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2
             OR 3)


     55      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING IF ITEM IS BEING
             CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING ON MMPA IF
             NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2 OR 3)




     56      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
             OR UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
             OR 1)


     57      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
             OR UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
             OR 1)


     1-5     14405 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    CORRECT YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE IF BEING CORRECTED OR
             YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE ON MMPA; MAY BE BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O


    56-61    PRIOR DATE START: START DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
             ZEROS
554                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      62-67   PRIOR DATE STOP: STOP DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS


       1-5    04406


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF DATE START IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS


      26-31   YYMMDD OF DATE STOP IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               555


Figure 30.8. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Dual Overseas Housing Allowance (Unaccompanied
With Dependents) - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       A4501 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


     32-36      JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--EFFECTIVE DATE 841001 OR AFTER
                4--INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


     40-47      ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


     48-49      CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                BLANK
556                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      52    RENT STATUS:
            R—RENTING
            H—HOMEOWNER
            O—OTHER


      53    UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK




      55    UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
            0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--IF COLD CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      56    UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
            0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            557


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     1-5     14501 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O


     1-5     04502


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF LAST DAY THAT ENTITLEMENT IS TO BE PAID


     1-5     A4503 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


    26-31    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS
558                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                               DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      32-36   JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38     ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
              0--EFFECTIVE DATE 841001 OR AFTER
              4--INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


      40-47   ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49   CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS PAID


       50     SHARE NUMBER:
              1--IF NOT SHARING
              2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
              3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
              4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51     SHARE CATEGORY:
              M—MILITARY
              D--DOD EMPLOYEE
              O—OTHER
              BLANK

       52     RENT STATUS:
              R—RENTING
              H—HOMEOWNER
              O—OTHER


       53     UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
              0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       54     UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 559


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK

     1-5     14503 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O
560                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.9. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Dual Overseas Housing Allowance (Unaccom-
panied with Dependents) - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      A4504 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


      32-36     JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--EFFECTIVE DATE 841001 OR AFTER
                4--INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


      40-47     ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49     CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 561


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     52      RENT STATUS:
             R—RENTING
             H—HOMEOWNER
             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK



     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK
562                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       57     UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
              0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       1-5    14504 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK


       1-5    A4505 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   CORRECT START DATE OR START DATE ON MMPA OR ZEROS


      26-31   CORRECT STOP DATE OR ZEROS

      32-36   JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38     ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
              0--IF CONTINUOUS ENTITLEMENT STARTED 841001 OR AFTER
              4--IF INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


      40-47   CORRECT AMOUNT OF RENT PAID OR MMPA AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IF
              NOT BEING CORRECTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                563


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    48-49    CORRECT CURRENCY CODE IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR MMPA
             CURRENCY CODE IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


     50      CORRECT SHARE NUMBER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
             NUMBER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


     51      CORRECT SHARE CATEGORY IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
             CATEGORY ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


     52      CORRECT RENT STATUS IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR RENT
             STATUS ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


     53      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY IF ITEM IS BEING
             CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY ON MMPA IF NOT
             BEING CORRECTED (0 OR 3)



     54      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
             UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2
             OR 3)


     55      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING IF ITEM IS BEING
             CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING ON MMPA IF
             NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2 OR 3)


     56      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
             OR UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
             OR 1)


     57      CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
             OR UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
             OR 1)


     1-5     14505 OR (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
564                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   CORRECT YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE IF BEING CORRECTED OR
              YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE ON MMPA


      26-31   PRIOR START DATE: START DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
              ZEROS


      32-37   PRIOR STOP DATE: STOP DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS


       1-5    04506


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF DATE START IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS


      26-31   YYMMDD OF DATE STOP IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       565


Figure 30.10. Formats to Start, Stop, Report or Change Overseas Housing - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       A5501 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


     32-36      JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
                1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
                ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
                2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
                AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
                SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)


     40-47      ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


     48-49      CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY CODE:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
566                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


            BLANK


      52    RENT STATUS:
            R—RENTING
            H—HOMEOWNER
            O—OTHER


      53    UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK




      55    UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
            0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--IF COLD CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      56    UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
            0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            567


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     1-5     15501 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O


     1-5     05502


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF LAST DAY THAT ENTITLEMENT IS TO BE PAID


     1-5     A5503 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


    26-31    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS
568                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      32-36   JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38     ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
              0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
              1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
              ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
              2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
              AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
              SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)


      40-47   THE ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS
      48-49   CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


       50     SHARE NUMBER:
              1--IF NOT SHARING
              2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
              3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
              4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51     SHARE CATEGORY:
              M—MILITARY
              D--DOD EMPLOYEE
              O—OTHER
              BLANK


       52     RENT STATUS:
              R—RENTING
              H—HOMEOWNER
              O—OTHER


       53     UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
              0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 569


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             OR BLANK


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK
570                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       1-5    15503 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O


       1-5    A5504 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


      32-36   JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38     ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
              0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
              1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
              ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
              2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
              AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
              SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)


      40-47   ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49   CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


       50     SHARE NUMBER:
              1--IF NOT SHARING
              2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 571


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
             4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


     51      SHARE CATEGORY:
             M—MILITARY
             D--DOD EMPLOYEE
             O—OTHER
             BLANK


     52      RENT STATUS:
             R—RENTING
             H—HOMEOWNER
             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK




     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
572                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


              OR BLANK


       56     UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
              0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       57     UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
              0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       1-5    15504 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    573


Figure 30.11. Format to Correct or Cancel Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       A5505 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      CORRECT YYMMDD OF START DATE OR ZEROS


     26-31      CORRECT YYMMDD OF STOP DATE OR ZEROS


     32-36      JFTR LOCATION


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--MEMBER WHO IS UNACCOMPANIED AND RECEIVING SINGLE BAQ
                1--FOR A EMBER RECEIVING BAQ AT THE WITH DEPENDENT RATE
                ACCOMPANIED BY AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS
                2--FOR A MEMBER RECEIVING SINGLE RATE BAQ ACCOMPANIED BY
                AUTHORIZED DEPENDENTS (ANOTHER PERSON IS PROVIDING
                SUPPORT FOR THAT DEPENDENT)


     40-47      CORRECT AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
                AMOUNT OF RENT PAID ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


     48-49      CORRECT CURRENCY CODE IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
                CURRENCY CODE ON MMPA IS NOT BEING CORRECTED


       50       CORRECT SHARE NUMBER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
                NUMBER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       51       CORRECT SHARE CATEGORY IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
                CATEGORY ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED
574                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    52    CORRECT RENT STATUS IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR RENT
          STATUS ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       53     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY IF ITEM IS BEING
              CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY ON MMPA IF NOT
              BEING CORRECTED (0 OR 3)


       54     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
              UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2
              OR 3)


       55     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING IF ITEM IS BEING
              CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING ON MMPA IF
              NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2 OR 3)


       56     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
              OR UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
              OR 1)


       57     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
              OR UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
              OR 1)




       1-5    15505 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   CORRECT YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENT-LEASE; SAME DATE AS MMPA
              RENT-LEASE IF NOT BEING CORRECTED; MAY BE BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            575


CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   26-31  PRIOR-DATE-START: START DATE OF ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
          ZEROS


    32-37    PRIOR-DATE-STOP: STOP DATE ON ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
             ZEROS


     1-5     05506


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTED OR ZEROS


    26-31    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPPED OR ZEROS
576                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.12. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Interim Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      A5601(ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      32-36     JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS: MUST BE 1


      40-47     ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49     CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                OR BLANK IF CP 50 EQUALS 1


       52       RENT STATUS:
                R—RENTING
                H—HOMEOWNER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 577


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O



     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


     1-5     15501 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)
578                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O


       1-5    05602


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF LAST DAY ENTITLEMENT IS TO BE PAID


       1-5    A5603 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      26-31   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS


      32-36   JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38     ACCOMPANIED STATUS: MUST BE 1


      40-47   ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49   CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                         579


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     50      SHARE NUMBER:
             1--IF NOT SHARING
             2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
             3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
             4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC




     51      SHARE CATEGORY:
             M—MILITARY
             D--DOD EMPLOYEE
             O—OTHER
             OR BLANK IF CP 50 EQUALS 1


     52      RENT STATUS:
             R—RENTING
             H—HOMEOWNER
             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O
580                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       55     UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
              0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--IF COLD CLIMATE
              2--MODERATE CLIMATE
              3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


       56     UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
              0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


       57     UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
              0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


       1-5    15603 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME

      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              581


Figure 30.13. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Interim Overseas Housing Allowance - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       A5604 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


     32-36      JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS: MUST BE 1


     40-47      ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


     48-49      CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS BEING PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                OR BLANK IF CP 50 EQUALS 1


       52       RENT STATUS:
                R—RENTING
                H—HOMEOWNER
582                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


            O—OTHER


      53    UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


      55    UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
            0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--IF COLD CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O



      56    UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
            0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


      57    UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
            0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O


      1-5   15604 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              583


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O


     1-5     A5605 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    CORRECT START DATE OR MMPA START DATE OR ZEROS


    26-31    CORRECT STOP DATE OR ZEROS


    32-36    JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


     38      ACCOMPANIED STATUS: MUST BE 1


    40-47    CORRECT AMOUNT OF ACTUAL RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


    48-49    CORRECT CURRENCY CODE


     50      CORRECT SHARE NUMBER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
             NUMBER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


     51      CORRECT SHARE CATEGORY IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
             CATEGORY ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (M, D, O OR BLANK IF
             CP 50 EQUALS 1)
584                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       52     CORRECT RENT STATUS IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR RENT
              STATUS ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (R, H OR O)


       53     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY IF ITEM IS BEING
              CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY ON MMPA IF NOT
              BEING CORRECTED (0, 3 OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O)


       54     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
              UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2,
              3 OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O)


       55     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING IF ITEM IS BEING
              CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING ON MMPA IF
              NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2, 3 OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O)


       56     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
              OR UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED
              (0, 1 OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O)


       57     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
              OR UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED
              (0, 1 OR BLANK IF CP 52 EQUALS H OR O)


       1-5    15605 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   CORRECT YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE IF BEING CORRECTED OR
              YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE ON MMPA; MAY BE BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O


      56-61   PRIOR DATE START: START DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
              ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              585


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    62-67    PRIOR DATE STOP: STOP DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS


     1-5     05606


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTED OR ZEROS


    26-31    YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPPED OR ZEROS
586                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.14. Formats to Start, Stop or Report Dual Overseas Housing Allowance (Unaccompa-
nied with Dependents) - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      A5701 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      32-36     JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


       38       ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--EFFECTIVE DATE 841001 OR AFTER
                4--INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


      40-47     ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


      48-49     CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS PAID


       50       SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


       51       SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 587


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     52      RENT STATUS:
             R—RENTING
             H—HOMEOWNER
             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
             0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--HOT CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK




     55      UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
             0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--IF COLD CLIMATE
             2--MODERATE CLIMATE
             3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     56      UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
             0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK
588                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



       57     UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
              0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       1-5    15701 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O


       1-5    05702


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF LAST DAY THAT ENTITLEMENT IS TO BE PAID


       1-5    A5703 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STARTS


      26-31   YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT STOPS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                 589


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    32-36    JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


     38      ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
             0--EFFECTIVE DATE 841001 OR AFTER
             4--INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


    40-47    ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


    48-49    CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS PAID


     50      SHARE NUMBER:
             1--IF NOT SHARING
             2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
             3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
             4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


     51      SHARE CATEGORY:
             M—MILITARY
             D--DOD EMPLOYEE
             O—OTHER
             OR BLANK

     52      RENT STATUS:
             R—RENTING
             H—HOMEOWNER
             O—OTHER


     53      UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
             0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     54      UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
590                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


              0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--HOT CLIMATE
              2--MODERATE CLIMATE
              3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       55     UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
              0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--IF COLD CLIMATE
              2--MODERATE CLIMATE
              3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       56     UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
              0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK


       57     UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
              0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
              1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
              OR BLANK

       1-5    15703 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
              EQUALS H OR O
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             591


Figure 30.15. Format to Change, Correct or Cancel Dual Overseas Housing Allowance (Unaccom-
panied with Dependents) - OHA.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       A5704 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


     32-36      JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


      38        ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
                0--EFFECTIVE DATE 841001 OR AFTER
                4--INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


     40-47      ACTUAL AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IN WHOLE UNITS


     48-49      CURRENCY CODE IN WHICH RENT IS PAID


      50        SHARE NUMBER:
                1--IF NOT SHARING
                2--IF SHARING WITH ONE OTHER PERSON
                3--IF SHARING WITH TWO OTHER PERSONS
                4--IF SHARING WITH THREE OTHER PERSONS, ETC


      51        SHARE CATEGORY:
                M—MILITARY
                D--DOD EMPLOYEE
                O—OTHER
                OR BLANK
592                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      52    RENT STATUS:
            R—RENTING
            H—HOMEOWNER
            O—OTHER


      53    UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY:
            0--ELECTRICITY IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            3--ELECTRICITY IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      54    UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT:
            0--HEATING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--HOT CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--COLD CLIMATE AND HEATING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK




      55    UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING
            0--AIR CONDITIONING IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--IF COLD CLIMATE
            2--MODERATE CLIMATE
            3--HOT CLIMATE AND AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK


      56    UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER:
            0--WATER IS INCLUDED IN RENT
            1--WATER IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
            OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            593


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     57      UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH:
             0--TRASH DISPOSAL IS INCLUDED IN RENT
             1--TRASH DISPOSAL IS NOT INCLUDED IN RENT
             OR BLANK


     1-5     15704 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF MEMBER’S RENTAL LEASE DATE OR BLANK IF CP 52
             EQUALS H OR O


     1-5     A5705 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-25    CORRECT START DATE OR START DATE ON MMPA OR ZEROS


    26-31    CORRECT STOP DATE OR ZEROS


    32-36    JFTR LOCATION FOR THE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA


     38      ACCOMPANIED STATUS:
             0--IF CONTINUOUS ENTITLEMENT STARTED 841001 OR AFTER
             4--IF INDIVIDUALLY SPONSORED DEPENDENTS


    40-47    CORRECT AMOUNT OF RENT PAID OR MMPA AMOUNT OF RENT PAID IF
             NOT BEING CORRECTED
594                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      48-49   CORRECT CURRENCY CODE IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR MMPA
              CURRENCY CODE IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       50     CORRECT SHARE NUMBER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
              NUMBER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       51     CORRECT SHARE CATEGORY IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR SHARE
              CATEGORY ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       52     CORRECT RENT STATUS IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR RENT
              STATUS ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


       53     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY IF ITEM IS BEING
              CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-ELECTRICITY ON MMPA IF NOT
              BEING CORRECTED (0 OR 3)


       54     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED OR
              UTILITY INDICATOR-HEAT ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2
              OR 3)


       55     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING IF ITEM IS BEING
              CORRECTED OR UTILITY INDICATOR-AIR CONDITIONING ON MMPA IF
              NOT BEING CORRECTED (0, 1, 2 OR 3)


       56     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
              OR UTILITY INDICATOR-WATER ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
              OR 1)


       57     CORRECT UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH IF ITEM IS BEING CORRECTED
              OR UTILITY INDICATOR-TRASH ON MMPA IF NOT BEING CORRECTED (0
              OR 1)


       1-5    15705 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              595


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    CORRECT YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE IF BEING CORRECTED OR
             YYMMDD OF RENTAL LEASE DATE ON MMPA


    26-31    PRIOR START DATE: START DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR
             ZEROS


    32-37    PRIOR STOP DATE: STOP DATE IN ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS


     1-5     05706


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF DATE START IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS


    26-31    YYMMDD OF DATE STOP IN ENTRY BEING CANCELED OR ZEROS
596                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 30.16. Format to Report, Cancel or Correct Advance Pay.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0PA03/06 OR APA05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


      27-30     ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

      32-39     PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-45     AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


      46-48     CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


       49       ADVANCE PAY CATEGORY CODE. SEE Attachment 3
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              597


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    50    NUMBER OF MONTHS THAT ADVANCE WAS PAID (1, 2 OR 3) WHEN CP 49
          IS F; OTHERWISE, BLANK


     52      1 IF MMPA HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED; OTHERWISE, BLANK


    53-54    NUMBER OF MONTHS REPAY (1 THROUGH 24)


    57-60    PAYROLL NUMBER


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
598                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 30.1. Advance Payment of Housing Allowance and Recoupment Procedures.
             A                                  B                                   C
 R
 U
 L
 E If the                then                                               Reference
  1 repayment is to be   the FSO determines the repayment period:           JFTR Vol I
    extended beyond 12                                                      U9102-A
                         (a) when justified by the member and the
    months               approving official determines a 12-month repay
                         will cause a hardship.
                         (b) if the member is on a controlled tour, repay
                         period may equal tour length but may not
                         exceed it.
                         (c) if member is not serving a controlled tour,
                         repay period may not exceed 24 months.
                         (d) in all cases, the repay period must not
                         exceed DOS.
                         (e) in most cases, however, liquidation of the
                         advance should not exceed 12 months.
  2 member is serving an the FSO may, upon request from the member, para 30-5 and figure
    unaccompanied        advance housing allowances based on housing 30-3
    overseas tour        expenses for the member and for the
                         dependents at the accompanied location.
                         (Advance housing allowances may be paid at
                         any time during a tour of duty at the new
                         location. All housing expenses must be
                         documented to include copies of leases, utility
                         company statements, etc). Process separate
                         vouchers and PA03s for each advance payment
                         for local payees. For central payees, process
                         separate CICS trans IDs ‘JPBB’ for each
                         payment (see subparagraph 38-9b for a more
                         detailed scenario of this payment process).
                         Transactions must reflect the proper
                         ADV-PAY-CTCGS code of "B" (OHA) and "G"
                         (CONUS)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     599


              A                                   B                                C
 R
 U
 L
 E If the                  then                                            Reference
  3 advance of housing  the combined assets allowances, and expenses       para 30-5f
    allowances is       of the occupants are considered.
    requested by member
    married to another
    member
  4 member and             lump sum recoupment will not exceed the        JFTR Vol I
    dependent vacate       amount of money returned to the member by      U9102-A
    housing for which      the landlord. Any balance of an advance not    para 30-5k
    advance housing        returned by the landlord may be liquidated in
    allowance (OHA,        monthly installments if desired by the member.
    IHA, and BAQ) was
    made (OVERSEAS)
  5 member is pending      the FSO initiates held pay or accelerates the   DoDFMR Vol 7A,
    separation from the    repayment rate to ensure collection of the      chapter 32, table
    service                remaining balance.                              32-1
  6 member requests        the FSO receives a written request justifying
    repayment at a rate    the lesser amount. Normally repayment will be
    less than $50.00 per   made with the $50.00 per month minimum.
    month
600                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             Chapter 31

      RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               601


                                                Chapter 32

                               ENTITLEMENT RE-CERTIFICATION

32.1. Description. Air Force members are required to review and re-certify information concerning enti-
tlement to Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) and Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA). Members are
required to re-certify the status of their dependents at PCS arrival, every four years for those who have not
completed a PCS in that period of time, and within 60 days prior to separation or retirement.

32.2. Substantiating Documents:
   32.2.1. Members receiving BAH for dependents are required to re-certify their entitlement to the
   allowance using AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to start, stop or change Basic Allow-
   ance for Quarters (BAQ) or dependency redetermination.
   32.2.2. Members receiving OHA, whether individually or for dependents, are required to re-certify
   the entitlement using AF Form 987, re-certification statement for Basic Allowance for Quarters
   (BAQ), Variable Housing Allowance (VHA), Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA), Cost of Living
   Allowance (COLA), and Family Separation Allowance (FSA). Cost information is required only for
   OHA.

32.3. Re-certification at PCS Arrival. As members process in, they must provide the information
required on the AF Form 594 or 987, depending on the allowance to be paid. Members must complete the
form before receiving the allowance.

32.4. Re-certification Prior to Separation or Retirement: Members whose separation is imminent
(within 60 days) must re-certify prior to separation. The AF Form 594 or 987 must be returned to the FSO
prior to the member’s anticipated departure date. A waiver may be granted if the member has re-certified
within 6 months of the date of separation or retirement.

32.5. Four Year Requirement: Members who do not PCS within a four-year period are required to
re-certify entitlement to the allowance every four years in order to continue receiving it. The member
must complete either the AF Form 594 (members receiving BAH on behalf of dependents) or AF Form
987 (members receiving OHA) or both. Members have 30 days from date of receipt of the form to return
it to the FSO before action is taken to stop the allowance. See paragraph 32.7. for retention of source doc-
uments.

32.6. FSO Action when Re-certification is Late or not Accomplished:
   32.6.1. If a member fails to return the form by the due date, stop the with dependents portion of the
   allowances effective at the end of the month. For example, if a member’s re-certification is due in
   September, stop the higher rate of the allowances effective 30 September. Start the appropriate lower
   rate (single or partial rate) effective the next day. Annotate a blank AF Form 594 or 987 (whichever
   is applicable) with the member’s name, SSN, and the fact that the member failed to re-certify and
   retain in accordance with paragraph 32.7. below.
   32.6.2. If the member completes the re-certification late, restart the higher rate of the allowance,
   effective the date the member completes the form. Do not start the higher rate retroactively unless the
602                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      member has a statement from his or her commander that the failure to re-certify was due to circum-
      stances beyond the member’s control. If the member has a statement to that effect, the higher rate can
      be established back to the day after the stop date. Retain a copy of the completed re-certification in
      accordance with paragraph 32.7. below.
      32.6.3. If the member fails to re-certify even after the allowance has been stopped, notify the member
      that collection action will be taken, effective the date of the last re-certification. Provide the member
      due process and, after 60 days, if you have nothing to indicate the collection would be incorrect, pro-
      cess a DQ to collect the overpayment over 12 months.

32.7. Retention:
      32.7.1. For members whose OHA requires change due to the information provided at re-certification,
      forward the completed AF Form 987 to the Housing Office for review. The housing officer will
      review the AF Form 987, maintain the required supporting documentation, sign the re-certification
      form, and return the 987 to the FSO for use as the source document for input. For changes to BAH,
      use the completed AF Form 594 as the source document, certifying that you have examined whatever
      supporting documentation the member provided. Once you have examined it, return the supporting
      documentation to the member (if not mailed in) and include the AF Form 594 or 987 with your regular
      quarterly submission (Records Center Handbook available on FTP site for reference) of source docu-
      ments to DFAS-DE/PMLR.
      32.7.2. Upon receipt of the completed AF Form 594 or 987, ensure the information matches the
      MMPA and, if not, documentation to support the differences is attached.
      32.7.3. Retain the completed AF Form 594 or 987 in a manual monthly file, in SSN order within the
      month, for 4 years. When that date comes up (in four years), replace the old re-certification with the
      new or, if the member is no longer on station, discard the old one. If the member PCSs, separates or
      retires before the four-year re-certification would have come due, ensure you pull the old re-certifica-
      tion form from the manual file at the time of departure to prevent having to follow-up later.

32.8. Redeterminations. For guidance on redetermination of secondary dependency, see Chapter 26,
paragraphs 26.5.2. and 26.9.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               603


Figure 32.1. AF Form 987, Recertification Statement for Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ),
Variable Housing Allowance (VHA), Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA), Cost of Living Allow-
ance (COLA), and Family Separation Allowance (FSA).
604   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             605


                                              Chapter 33

                                    CLOTHING ALLOWANCES

Section 33A—Enlisted.

33.1. Description. The Air Force provides certain clothing allowances to its members. Eligibility and
amounts are found in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 29, and AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances for
Air Force Personnel, and are either paid to the member or provided in-kind. Some allowances are pro-
vided to all enlisted members, while others are provided on an as needed basis. For specific entitlement
information, see DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 29.

33.2. Types of Clothing Monetary Allowances Authorized Enlisted Members Include:
   33.2.1. Initial and Continuing Clothing Monetary Allowances;
   33.2.2. Clothing Replacement Allowances (CRA);
   33.2.3. Extra Clothing Allowances;
   33.2.4. Civilian Clothing Monetary Allowances.

33.3. Initial Clothing Monetary Allowance (CMAI) for Prior Service Enlisted Members Paid
Through DJMS:
   33.3.1. Entitlement:
       33.3.1.1. Regular enlisted members reenlisting more than 3 months after discharge are entitled to
       a CMAI. Enlisted members of a reserve component (AFRES or ANG) on first reporting for or on
       recall to active duty for more than 6 months (except for active duty training) are entitled to an
       adjusted CMAI. The MPF reenlisting, recalling or mobilizing the members will provide the FSO
       with the dates of last discharge, deactivation or demobilization from active duty and date of reen-
       listment, recall or mobilization for determining entitlement to or for computation of the adjust-
       ment to CMAI. Members of AFRES/ANG units who are authorized to retain clothing for service
       in the reserve component will return to active duty with that clothing. These AFRES/ANG mem-
       bers will receive an adjusted CMAI based on the difference between the current value of their
       clothing and the amount of the current CMAI. When AFRES/ANG members do not have Military
       Pay Orders (DD Form 114) or Personal Clothing Records - Female Airman (Air Force Reserve
       and Air National Guard) (AF Form 657) or Male Airman (Air Force Reserve and Air National
       Guard) (AF Form 658), the Reserve component members will not be entitled to the CMAI, but
       will be entitled to the appropriate clothing replacement allowances specified (basic or standard) in
       DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 5. However, AFRES/ANG members can receive the adjusted
       CMAI at a later date if the required documentation is furnished.
       33.3.1.2. Members reenlisting with a break in service of less than 3 months are paid no CMAI.
       However, start of either the Basic or Standard Replacement Allowance or future start dates must
       be established.
       33.3.1.3. Reduction in Force (RIF) officers are paid total CMAI and a future is established for the
       Basic Replacement Allowance based on DOE provided by the MPF to the FSO.
606                                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         33.3.1.4. When these members are accessed with an E203, and a 63 future entry is not present on
         the MMPA, a partial reject will be issued to the FSO; error code UHA (PT input required for
         enlisted member). Also a 63 suspense will be established and if the PT is not received within 30
         days, another UHA reject will be issued.
      33.3.2. FSO Procedures. FSO processes a PT03 to report entitlement to CMAI and establish a 63
      future for either basic clothing replacement allowance-initial or standard clothing replacement allow-
      ance. The PT03 transaction generates an N3 memo entry on the MMPA. The CMAI amount is based
      on the difference between the current value of the uniforms in the member’s possession and the cur-
      rent CMAI amount (see paragraph 33.3.1.).
      33.3.3. Substantiating Documents. Accession information received from the MPF and DFAS-DE is
      used to prepare DD Form 114 and later payment using SF 1034.
         33.3.3.1. For Reservists called to active duty or ANG members enlisting for active duty, the gain-
         ing unit prepares DD Form 114.
         33.3.3.2. For RIF officers in enlisted status and prior service enlisted member with a break in ser-
         vice, assign an MPO number to a copy of the orders. Verify previous DOS with member's copy of
         the latest DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty.
      33.3.4. Payment. The 6403 transaction must be input if entitlement exists and payment will be created
      by the 6403 transaction. See Figure 33.9. for 6403 format, to include the types of initial clothing
      allowance. For additional information on type codes to be used in the 6403, see paragraph 33.4.3.
      below.
      33.3.5. Input. Accession must be confirmed before processing. Each transaction is processed in sepa-
      rate input and limited to one of these:
         33.3.5.1. Report (03). Establishes entitlement, reports payment of CMAI, and establishes entitle-
         ment or futures for Basic and Replacement CRA, as applicable. (See Figure 33.8.)
         33.3.5.2. Cancel (06). Completely voids a previous submission. (See Figure 33.8.) (Will only
         work if input the same month as the original submission).

33.4. Initial Clothing Monetary Allowances – Basic Military Trainees (BMTS) and Officer Training
School (OTS) Students.
      33.4.1. Entitlement: DoDFMR Volume 7A, chapter 29, and AFI 36-3014 (Clothing Allowances for
      Air Force Personnel) provide details of entitlement for these allowances. Standard initial clothing
      allowances are mainly provided as an in kind issue, although a cash payment may be made for items
      not furnished in kind.
      33.4.2. FSO Procedures: for the members in paragraph 33.4.3.2. below the 64 transaction must be
      input by the field. Upon receipt of substantiating documentation from clothing (AF For 656), process
      the 6403 transaction using the appropriate type (see subparagraph 33.4.3.2. for specifics).
      33.4.3. Input. The 6403 transaction will be used to pay enlisted members the cash portion of the ini-
      tial clothing allowance or the value of the initial clothing not available for issue. Additionally, it will
      be used to pay the member for clothing alterations if required, for secretary of the service authorized
      reissues, and Air Force OTS trainees with and without prior service.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                607


       33.4.3.1. The 64 entry will be generated as part of the accession process for BMTS and OTS stu-
       dents without any prior service. No field input is necessary.
       33.4.3.2. The 6403 transaction will be generated from the accession transaction for OTS students
       reentering with prior service. The 6403 transaction must be input for enlisted members who are
       selected to officer training school. The initial clothing type in the entry will indicate what the enti-
       tlement was for:
          33.4.3.2.1. Type 1 is used to pay the cash portion of the initial clothing entitlement. The effec-
          tive date will be the member’s current date of entry (DOE). The amount will be obtained from
          DJMS Table 030.
          33.4.3.2.2. Type 2 is used to pay the value of any clothing not available for issue. Limit of two
          type 2 clothing payments.
          33.4.3.2.3. Type 3 is used to pay the amount of any additional initial clothing expenses (alter-
          ations/orthopedic shoes). The amount is in addition to the initial clothing allowance amount.
          When a type 3 is processed a management notice XC05 (see Attachment 22) will be sent to
          the member’s servicing FSO for verification of entitlement. The type 3 must be processed
          within 6 months of current date of entry (DOE).
          33.4.3.2.4. Type 4 is used to pay for a reissue of initial clothing entitlement authorized by the
          designated service representative. The amount may not exceed the initial clothing allowance
          rate for the service involved. Management notice XC11 (Attachment 22) will be sent to the
          member’s servicing FSO for verification of entitlement.
          33.4.3.2.5. Types 5 and 6 are used by Navy only.
          33.4.3.2.6. Type 7 is used to pay the special initial clothing monetary allowance for Air Force
          OTS students with a break in service or without prior service. The amount for the Air Force
          special initial clothing allowance is in Table 030. Only Air Force members can have an initial
          clothing type of 7.
          33.4.3.2.7. Type 8 is used to pay the special initial clothing monetary allowance for Air Force
          OTS students selected from active duty. The amount for the Air Force special initial clothing
          allowance is in Table 030. Only Air Force members can have an initial clothing type of 8.

33.5. Maternity Clothing. AFI 36-3014 provides rates of maternity clothing allowance payable.
   33.5.1. Previously, maternity clothing was provided in-kind. The in-kind issue was made up of four
   mandatory items (one service dress coat, one skirt, one short sleeve shirt and one camouflage utility
   uniform) and other items selected by the member. The total of the items received could not exceed the
   maximum value of the supplemental allowance for pregnant enlisted women.
   33.5.2. Effective 1 June 1998, the maternity clothing allowance is again included in the member’s
   mid-month or end-of-month pay.
   33.5.3. Responsibilities:
       33.5.3.1. SG Community. The health care provider is responsible for providing AF Form 469,
       Duty Limiting Condition Report, to the member’s Commander’s Support Staff (CSS).
608                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         33.5.3.2. Commander or First Sergeant. The commander or First Sergeant signs the AF Form
         469, counsels member on the requirement to purchase the mandatory uniform items and any other
         uniforms required to perform duties, and includes a statement on the member’s profile that the
         member has been counseled. The CSS maintains the original AF Form 469 and forwards a signed
         copy to the FSO.
         33.5.3.3. FSO. Use the AF Form 469 signature date as the effective date for the maternity cloth-
         ing allowance. If the form is not dated, use the date the finance office receives the 469 as the
         effective date.
             33.5.3.3.1. Review the member’s MMPA to ensure maternity clothing allowance has not been
             paid in the last three years. Once verified, use the AF Form 469 as authorization for payment,
             and process a 6103 transaction, type 8, to report the entitlement for the clothing allowance.
             The entitlement updates the MMPA and pays the member the next available payday.
             33.5.3.3.2. If you process the maternity clothing allowance using type B with an effective date
             of 1 June 1998, or later, which creates the NU memo entry, cancel it and process the 6103, type
             8 (see subparagraph 33.5.3.3.3. below). If the effective date is prior to 1 June 1998, the exist-
             ing 6103 type B is correct.
             33.5.3.3.3. Before you cancel the 6103, type B, ensure the member does not have the mater-
             nity clothing issued in-kind. If the member has received in-kind clothing allowance within the
             last 3 years, there is no additional entitlement.
      33.5.4. Substantiating Documents. AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report.

33.6. Enlisted Members' Civilian Clothing Allowance:
      33.6.1. Entitlement. DoDFMR, Vol 7A, Chapter 29, and AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowance for Air
      Force Personnel, provide details of entitlement to the Civilian Clothing Allowances. These allow-
      ances have a monetary value which is included in the member’s mid-month or end-of-month pay.
      33.6.2. Substantiating Documents.
         33.6.2.1. When members are assigned to duty or serve in a career field that has been identified in
         the DoDFMR, Vol 7A, or AFI 36-3014, entitlements have been predetermined by personnel. For
         members performing short, non-consecutive TDYs, when the number of days total at least 15
         within a 30-day period, or over 30 within a 36-month period, a letter from the commander can
         authorize the entitlement upgrade. Based on one of the items above, after ensuring the member
         has not received TDY civilian clothing allowance in the previous 36 months, use one of the fol-
         lowing documents to substantiate entitlement:
             33.6.2.1.1. Assignment/reassignment orders,
             33.6.2.1.2. TDY orders, or
             33.6.2.1.3. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, and letter from the commander.
         33.6.2.2. Members assigned to duty or serving in a career field that has not been identified in
         either regulation must have the entitlement authorized by MAJCOM or MAJCOM equivalent
         (unless MAJCOM has delegated civilian clothing determination authority to wing or wing equiv-
         alent). AFI 36-3014 contains the information necessary for civilian clothing determinations.
         Attach the determination to the other source documents provided.”
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            609


  33.6.3. FSO Procedures. Process an 8103 transaction with the appropriate civilian clothing allow-
  ance type. FSOs must have the appropriate documentation (see paragraph 33.6.2.) before processing
  the transaction.
     33.6.3.1. Use the following type codes (see paragraph 33.6.2.) for civilian clothing allowance
     transactions with an effective date prior to 1 April 1998:


            1 Initial civilian clothing allowance - summer and winter
            2 Initial civilian clothing allowance - summer or winter
            3 TDY civilian clothing allowance - for 31 days or more
            4 TDY civilian clothing allowance - 16 through 30 days


     33.6.3.2. Civilian Clothing Allowance type codes for transactions with an effective date after 31
     March 1998:


            5 Initial
            6 Career
            7 TDY - 15 through 29 days
            8 TDY - 30 days or more
            9 Annual replacement.


  33.6.4. Civilian Clothing Allowance. For Civilian Clothing Allowance entitlement with an effective
  date after 31 March 1998, the DODI 1338.18 provides for a new Civilian Clothing Allowance entitle-
  ment payable to members whose assignments require them to wear civilian clothing at least 50% of
  the time. The type code used depends on whether the member is assigned to a tour of predetermined
  length or one with an open-ended tour length.
     33.6.4.1. Initial, or type 5, pays a member serving on a tour with a predetermined tour length. For
     type 5 transactions, the tour length field must not be blank. Type 5 transactions, should not be pro-
     cessed if an initial civilian clothing allowance was paid within 36 months for a tour length of over
     24 months or within 24 months for a tour length of 12 to 24 months. Depending on the actual tour
     length, processing the type 5 transaction will create various 81 futures. Type 5 transactions, that
     create an 81 future, pay a replacement allowance on the one-year anniversary of the entitlement
     effective date.
         33.6.4.1.1. 12 to 17 months - No future or automatic follow-on payment;
         33.6.4.1.2. 18 to 29 months - Creates future type A;
         33.6.4.1.3. 30 to 36 months - Creates future type B; at the end of the first 12 months, type B
         changes to type C. Type C pays a Replacement Allowance on the second anniversary of the
         initial Civilian Clothing Allowance date.
610                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         33.6.4.2. Career. Clothing allowance type 6 is used only for members in career fields that require
         civilian clothing to be worn continuously (E.G., OSI investigators).
             33.6.4.2.1. Career, or type 6, transactions are processed with a blank in the tour length field.
             33.6.4.2.2. The first civilian clothing allowance payment may include the initial and two civil-
             ian clothing replacement allowances paid at once. The final approval for all lump sum pay-
             ment of civilian clothing Allowance is the Assistant Secretary of Defense (FMP).
             33.6.4.2.3. A career, type 6, transaction made as a lump sum payment creates an 81 future,
             type D. The type D future suspends Civilian Clothing Replacement Allowance for 3 years,
             after which it establishes a type E.
             33.6.4.2.4. When a career, type 6, transaction is processed for an individual payment (not
             lump sum), it creates an 81 future type E. The type E future pays and resets itself at the end of
             each 36-month period from the date of the entitlement anniversary.
         33.6.4.3. Temporary duty, 15-29 days, type 7, indicates the member is required to wear civilian
         clothing for 15-29 consecutive days or a total of 15-29 days within a 30-day period.
         33.6.4.4. Temporary duty, over 30 days, type 8, indicates the member is required to wear civilian
         clothing for 30 consecutive days or for a total of 30 days within 36 months.
         33.6.4.5. Replacement permanent duty (annual replacement). Clothing Allowance type 9 is used
         to pay the annual Replacement Allowance. Use this to pay the Replacement Allowance to mem-
         bers whose assignments were extended 6 months or more or who were not automatically paid a
         Civilian Clothing Replacement Allowance after receiving the initial Civilian Clothing Allowance.
      33.6.5. Civilian Clothing Allowance (FID 81)
         33.6.5.1. Stop (02) – only deletes ‘81’ futures.
         33.6.5.2. Report (03) – pays or establishes a civilian clothing allowance entitlement.
         33.6.5.3. Correct (05) – corrects previous input.
         33.6.5.4. Cancel (06) – deletes the initial payment, previous installments and any future type on
         the entry.

33.7. Health and Appearance Sales:
      33.7.1. Unit Responsibility. Unit commanders initiate health and appearance sales. These credit
      sales are authorized only to cover emergency needs of airmen who are without funds to purchase
      items of personal clothing necessary for health, comfort, or appearance. Use of credit sales to make
      up shortages for an inspection is not an emergency. Credit sales are not authorized if member can wait
      until regular pay and allowances are received. Units contact the servicing FSO to determine if mem-
      ber has enough pay accrued to cover purchase. If enough pay has accrued, FSO will make partial pay-
      ment to purchase required clothing. If not, the unit prepares AF Form 656, Clothing Request and
      Receipt + Male/Female, to authorize the credit sale. Airman presents form to MCSS when selecting
      required items. MCSS enters total of purchases on form and returns it to airman who presents it to the
      FSO before clothing is released. (See AFMAN 23-110.)
      33.7.2. FSO Procedures. FSO provides information concerning a member's accrued pay to unit com-
      mander considering health and appearance sales and provides partial payment to member when mem-
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              611


   ber has funds to cover purchase. If member does not have enough funds for a partial payment, the unit
   prepares AF Form 656 to authorize a credit sale for required clothing. After the MCSS enters the total
   of items purchased on the form, the member presents the original AF Form 656 and all 5 copies to the
   FSO. Process a DS against the member's pay account to collect the total charges for the items sup-
   plied by the MCSS. Retain copies 1 and 2 of the 656 for supporting documentation and return the
   remainder to the member who then returns to the MCSS.

33.8. Miscellaneous Clothing Allowances Not Paid Through DJMS:
   33.8.1. Payment for Clothing Lost or Damaged. See AFMAN 23-110.
   33.8.2. Recovery of Issue Items Before Administrative Separation. See Chapter 70 of this volume
   for processing of a government property lost or damaged (GPLD) for unrecovered items.
   33.8.3. Provisions for Civilian Clothing When Uniforms Are Recovered. See AFMAN 23-110.

Section 33B—Officers.

33.9. Types. Officers may be entitled to receive:
   33.9.1. Officers Uniform and Equipment Allowance (UEA) - initial and additional. The entitlement
   to UEA is contained in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 30.
   33.9.2. Civilian Clothing Allowances. Certain officers assigned to a permanent duty station outside
   the United States may receive a civilian clothing monetary allowance (special initial, continuing, or
   temporary duty), if required to wear civilian clothing for safety or security reasons. Entitlement infor-
   mation is contained in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 30.

33.10. Substantiating Documents:
   33.10.1. AF Form 1969, Officer Uniform Allowance Certification. (See Figure 33.2.) Complete
   appropriate blocks and certificates for UEA - Initial and UEA - Additional Active Duty. (See DoD-
   FMR, Volume 7A, chapter 30.)
   33.10.2. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, can be used instead of an AF Form 1969, to authorize a
   UEA payment. When this form is used, include the same information and certificates as on AF Form
   1969.
   33.10.3. Published orders requiring the wear of civilian clothing.

33.11. FSO Procedures. FSO processes an 81 transaction to update member’s MMPA. Payment of this
allowance is included in the officer's regular pay. A partial payment can be made, however, after the enti-
tlement transaction has been submitted to DFAS-DE. (See Chapter 36.)

33.12. Input. Prepare input shown in Figure 33.3. as follows:
   33.12.1. Report (03). Establishes the entitlement.
   33.12.2. Correct (05). Corrects a previous action submitted with an error.
   33.12.3. Cancel (06). Completely voids a previous submission.
612                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 33.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (SP Special Clothing).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                 613


Figure 33.2. AF Form 1969, Officer Uniform Allowance Certification (To Report UEA -- Initial
and Additional).
614                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 33.3. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct UEA Initial.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       05903/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


       32        UEA-INIT CODE:
                 1—ROTC
                 2—OTS
                 3—AECP
                 4--OTHER (SEE NOTE)


      33-37      AMOUNT SPECIFIC ENTITLEMENT


       1-5       05905


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


      26-31      PRIOR EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
                 CORRECTED


       32        UEA-INIT CODE:
                 1—ROTC
                 2—OTS
                 3—AECP
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           615


CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             4--OTHER (SEE NOTE)


    33-37    AMOUNT SPECIFIC ENTITLEMENT


             NOTE: EFFECTIVE 1 OCT 2000, ALL PERSONNEL COMMISSIONED OR
             APPOINTED AS OFFICERS IN THE REGULAR OR RESERVE COMPONENT
             ARE AUTHORIZED $400.00 REGARDLESS OF SOURCE OF COMMISSION
             OR PREVIOUS ENLISTED STATUS. FOR ENTITLEMENT AFTER 1 OCT
             2000, CODE 4 IS USED FOR ALL CASES.
616                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 33.4. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct UEA Additional.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      06003/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


       32       UEA-INIT CODE:
                1--MEDICAL OFFICER
                2--OTHER THAN MEDICAL OFFICER


       1-5      06005


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE DATE: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


      26-31     PRIOR EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
                CORRECTED


       32       UEA-INIT CODE:
                1--MEDICAL OFFICER
                2--OTHER THAN MEDICAL OFFICER


                NOTE: EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 6, 2000, THE ADDITIONAL ACTIVE DUTY
                UNIFORM ALLOWANCE IS NOT PAYABLE IF THE OFFICER HAS
                RECEIVED AN INITIAL UNIFORM ALLOWANCE OF MORE THAN $400
                DURING THE CURRENT TOUR OF ACTIVE DUTY, OR WITHIN A PERIOD
                OF 2 YEARS BEFORE ENTERING ON THAT TOUR.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                   617


Figure 33.5. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct Extra Clothing Allowance.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        06103/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


       32       CLOTHING ALLOWANCE CODE: LISTED IN Attachment 8


     33-39       AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-ENTITLEMENT: AMOUNT PARTIAL EXTRA
                 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE OR ZEROS


      1-5        06105


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE

     26-31       PRIOR-EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
                 CORRECTED


       32       CLOTHING ALLOWANCE CODE: LISTED IN Attachment 8


     33-38       AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-ENTITLEMENT: AMOUNT PARTIAL EXTRA
                 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE OR ZEROS
618                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 33.6. Formats to Report/Cancel or Correct Civilian Monetary Clothing Allowance.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5   08103/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


       32       CLOTHING ALLOWANCE TYPE:
                1--BOTH SUMMER AND WINTER
                2--SUMMER OR WINTER
                3--TDY FOR 31 DAYS OR MORE
                4--TDY FOR 16-30 DAYS (INCLUSIVE)
                5—INITIAL
                6—CAREER
                7--TDY FOR 15-29 DAYS
                8--TDY FOR 30 DAYS OR MORE
                9--ANNUAL REPLACEMENT
                NOTE: TYPES 1-4 ARE TO BE USED FOR EFFECTIVE DATES PRIOR TO 1
                APRIL 1998. TYPES 5-9 ARE TO BE USED FOR EFFECTIVE DATES 1 APRIL
                1998 OR LATER.


      33-39     AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-ENTITLEMENT: AMOUNT FROM COMMANDER’S
                CERTIFICATE


      40-41     TOUR LENGTH (NUMBER OF MONTHS)


       42       LUMP SUM INDICATOR (Y/N)


       1-5      08105


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  619


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   15-19  FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    EFFECTIVE DATE: CORRECT YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE


    26-31    PRIOR-EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD IN TRANSACTION BEING
             CORRECTED


     32      CLOTHING ALLOWANCE TYPE:
             1--BOTH SUMMER AND WINTER
             2--SUMMER OR WINTER
             3--TDY FOR 31 DAYS OR MORE
             4--TDY FOR 16-30 DAYS (INCLUSIVE)
             5—INITIAL
             6—CAREER
             7--TDY FOR 15-29 DAYS
             8--TDY FOR 30 DAYS OR MORE
             9--ANNUAL REPLACEMENT
             NOTE: TYPES 1-4 ARE TO BE USED FOR EFFECTIVE DATES PRIOR TO 1
             APRIL 1998. TYPES 5-9 ARE TO BE USED FOR EFFECTIVE DATES 1 APRIL
             1998 OR LATER.


    33-39    AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-ENTITLEMENT: AMOUNT FORM COMMANDER’S
             CERTIFICATE


    40-41    TOUR LENGTH (NUMBER OF MONTHS)


     42      LUMP SUM INDICATOR (Y/N)
620                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 33.7. Format to Stop Civilian Monetary Clothing Allowance Future.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      08102


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD ENTITLEMENT IS EFFECTIVE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               621


Figure 33.8. Format to Report/Cancel CMAI and/or CMA Allowances.


 CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PT03/06


     6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25     YYMMDD CURRENT DOE DATE


      26       MEMBER’S SEX CODE:
               M—MALE
               F—FEMALE


      27       CMAI ENTITLEMENT CODE:
               N--NO CMAI
               R--REDUCED CMAI
               T--TOTAL CMAI
               P--USAFA PREP SCHOOL STUDENT


      28       CMAI ACTION GROUP CODE:
               1--FORMER ENLISTEE OR MEMBER AUTHORIZED CMAI ON EAD WITH
               MORE THAN 3 MONTHS BREAK IN SERVICE (INCLUDES RIFed
               OFFICERS); PAYS TOTAL CMAI. ESTABLISHES FUTURE FOR ANNUAL
               CMAB
               2--FORMER ENLISTEE WITH LESS THAN 3 MONTHS BREAK IN SERVICE
               AND LESS THAN 36 MONTHS ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE; PAYS NO
               CMAI. ESTABLISHES FUTURE FOR ANNUAL CMAB
               3--FORMER ENLISTEE WITH LESS THAN 3 MONTHS BREAK IN SERVICE
               AND MORE THAN 36 MONTHS ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE; PAYS NO
               CMAI AND ESTABLISHES FUTURE FOR ANNUAL CMAS
               4--RESERVIST CALLED TO ACTIVE DUTY WITH LESS THAN 36 MONTHS
               ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE; PAYS REDUCED CMAI. ESTABLISHES
               FUTURE FOR ANNUAL CMAB
622                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
              5--RESERVIST CALLED TO ACTIVE DUTY WITH 36 MONTHS OR MORE
              ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE; PAYS REDUCED CMAI. ESTABLISHES
              FUTURE FOR ANNUAL CMAS
              6--USAFA PREP SCHOOL STUDENT ALW; PAYS USAFA PREP SCHOOL
              CMAI. ESTABLISHES ANNUAL CMAB FUTURE


      29-33   AMOUNT OF CMAI:
              IF CP 27 = N, ZEROS
              IF CP 27 = R, AMOUNT PAID OR ZEROS
              IF CP 27 = T OR P, BLANK


       73     BYPASS CODE (DFAS-DE ONLY)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                 623


Figure 33.9. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Initial Clothing Monetary Allowances – Basic
Military Trainees (BMTS) and Officer Training School (OTS) Students.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        06403/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       EFFECTIVE DATE


       26        INITIAL CLOTHING TYPE:
                 1 – MONETARY PORTION OF INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE
                 2 – CASH PAYMENT OF THE MONETARY VALUE FOR CLOTHING ITEMS
                 NOT ISSUED
                 3 – ADDITIONAL INITIAL CLOTHING (ALTERATIONS)
                 4 – SECRETARY APPROVAL REISSUE
                 5 – USED BY NAVY ONLY
                 6 – USED BY NAVY ONLY
                 7 – AIR FORCE OTS WITHOUT PRIOR SERVICE
                 8 – AIR FORCE OTS WITH PRIOR SERVICE (ENLISTED MEMBER GOING
                 TO OFFICER)


     27-33       AMOUNT OF INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE CASH TYPES 1, 7, AND 8 –
                 ENTER ZEROS AND SYSTEM WILL PAY AMOUNT FROM TABLE 030.
                 TYPES 1, 7, AND 8 – ENTER DOLLAR AMOUNT TO PAY IF DIFFERENT
                 FROM TABLE 030 RATE.
                 TYPES 2, 3, OR 4 – MUST ENTER AMOUNT GREATER THAN ZERO.



      1-5        06405


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
624                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   15-19  FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-25   EFFECTIVE DATE


       26     INITIAL CLOTHING TYPE
              1 – MONETARY PORTION OF INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE
              2 – CASH PAYMENT OF THE MONETARY VALUE FOR CLOTHING ITEMS
              NOT ISSUED
              3 – ADDITIONAL INITIAL CLOTHING (ALTERATIONS)
              4 – SECRETARY APPROVAL REISSUE
              5 – USED BY NAVY ONLY
              6 – USED BY NAVY ONLY
              7 – AIR FORCE OTS WITHOUT PRIOR SERVICE
              8 – AIR FORCE OTS WITH PRIOR SERVICE


      27-33   AMOUNT OF INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE CASH


      34-53   BLANK


      54-59   PRIOR-EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED


       60     PRIOR INITIAL CLOTHING TYPE: TYPE FROM TRANSACTION BEING
              CORRECTED


      61-67   PRIOR AMOUNT OF INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE CASH: AMOUNT
              FROM TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             625


                                               Chapter 34

                                PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCE

34.1. Description. Individuals serving in the grades of lieutenant general or general, or holding specified
positions of authority, are entitled to receive a monthly personal money allowance. Rates and conditions
of entitlement are shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 31. Actions to start, stop, or change per-
sonal money allowance result from event processing such as accession, promotion, demotion, or separa-
tion. This allowance is subject to Federal and State income tax withholding.

34.2. Source of Input. The TR entry of the MMPA is used to identify and regulate the personal money
allowance for special compensation positions. Input of FID TR transaction(s) to start, stop, change, cor-
rect, or cancel entitlement is done by either the member’s servicing MPF for member’s initial assignment,
changes to, or reassignment from designated position. Transaction input for preparatory school student
accounts is restricted to respective academy. See Figure 34.1. for transaction format. Military members
drawing basic pay of a lieutenant general or general will automatically receive personal money allowance
at the appropriate rate effective with accession or promotion to such grade. Specific input is not required
from base level.
626                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 34.1. Format to Start/Stop/Change/Correct/Cancel Special Compensation Positions.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0TR01/02/04/05/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE


      26-31      IF ACTION-INDICATOR IS 05, YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE FROM
                 TRANSACTION BEING CORRECTED. OTHERWISE, BLANK


      32-33      SPECIAL COMPENSATION POSITION CODE:
                 01--CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
                 02--CHIEF OF STAFF, AIR FORCE
                 06—SENIOR MEMBER, UNITED NATIONS MILITARY STAFF COMMITTEE
                 28--PERMANENT PROFESSOR, UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
                 35--CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT OF THE AIR FORCE
                 50--PREPARATORY SCHOOL STUDENT


                 IF ACTION-INDICATOR IS 04, SPECIAL COMPENSATION POSITION CODE
                 MUST BE 01 OR 02
                 IF ACTION-INDICATOR IS 05, CP 20-25 IS CORRECT YYMMDD SPECIAL
                 COMPENSATION POSITION SHOULD HAVE STARTED OR STOPPED, AS
                 APPLICABLE
                 IF ACTION-INDICATOR IS 06, SAME YYMMDD IN CP 20-25 OR SAME AS
                 TRANSACTION BEING CANCELED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            627


                                              Chapter 35

                                    PCS ADVANCE PAYMENTS

35.1. Description. PCS advance payments provide a member with funds to meet extraordinary expenses
incident to a government-ordered relocation. It is intended to assist with the out-of-pocket expenses that
exceed or precede reimbursements incurred in a duty location change, and are expenses not typical of
day-to-day military living. An advance of pay shall not be authorized for the specific out-of-pocket
expenses covered by advances of other pays and entitlements, if such advances are used (to include travel
allowances and per diem, overseas station housing allowance, BAQ, VHA, and dislocation allowance).
The member's commander has oversight responsibility to ensure that the advance of pay is only used to
help with the financial burden of a PCS. Specific entitlement provisions are found in the DoDFMR, Vol-
ume 7A, chapter 32. PCS advance pay for central payees is paid through electronic funds transfer (EFT)
by DFAS-DE. CICS transaction ID ‘JPBB’ is used to request and ‘JPBX’ to confirm the payment.

35.2. Substantiating Documents:
   35.2.1. DD Form 2560, Advance Pay Certification/Authorization. (See Figure 35.2.) Each member
   requesting or extending the repayment of an advance pay to meet extraordinary expenses related to a
   PCS move is required to complete DD Form 2560. The purpose of this form is also to inform the
   member of the purposes and restrictions of such advances, and to establish the repayment schedule.
   Distribution of the DD Form 2560 is as follows:
       35.2.1.1. Original - attach to payment voucher or DTL (see paragraph 35.4. below);
       35.2.1.2. Second copy - member;
       35.2.1.3. Third copy - approving official (when applicable);
       35.2.1.4. Fourth copy - FSO retained copy.
   35.2.2. AF Form 265, FSO Payment Authorization. (See Figure 35.1. and Table 35.1.). Used by the
   FSO to authorize payment of a PCS-related advance of pay for local payees.
   35.2.3. PCS orders or PCS assignment notification. Used in conjunction with the DD Form 2560 to
   justify member's request to commander.
   35.2.4. DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher. Used to pay the advance, reported as in figure 35.6.
   35.2.5. Daily EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form. (See Figure 35.3. and Table 35.2.). Used
   by the FSO to authorize payment of a PCS-related advance of pay for central payees.

35.3. Responsibilities:
   35.3.1. Commander. It is the responsibility of the member's commander to review the DD Form 2560
   in accordance with guidelines contained in AFMAN 65-116, V2, chapter 6.
   35.3.2. Comptroller. The comptroller ensures the intent of policy guidance is followed, providing
   guidance to commanders as needed. For further information, see AFMAN 65-116, V2, chapter 6.
   35.3.3. FSO. It is the responsibility of the FSO to point out any questionable expenses or repayment
   period, to the commander, for possible adjustments. Items which should be considered questionable
   include things like certificates of deposit, vacations, stocks, bonds, etc. Ensure payments to members
628                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      who are enroute are restricted to properly identified members who can prove, beyond doubt, their mil-
      itary pay status. Use caution in identifying members. Lack of proper identification can result in ille-
      gal payments, causing exceptions against the disbursing officer’s account. Verify member's status
      with either the losing or gaining station or DFAS-DE. For all advance payments, ensure member's
      remaining service allows normal repayment of the advance.

35.4. FSO Action:
      35.4.1. The FSO uses the AF Form 265 to authorize payment for local payees and Daily EFT Pay-
      ment Request/Authorization Form to authorize the payment for central payees. For a member who
      participates in direct deposit, the FSO will use CICS trans ID ‘JPBB’ (see subparagraph 38.9.2. for a
      more detailed scenario of this payment process) to send the payment to the member’s bank account.
      This will cause the PA03 to be created systematically and posted to the members MMPA. For a mem-
      ber who does not participate in direct deposit, the FSO will make the payment locally prior to report-
      ing the payment as a PA03. The advance pay category for this payment is A.
      35.4.2. The DD Form 2560 is attached to the original AF Form 265 or Daily EFT Payment Request/
      Authorization Form depending on the situation, when a member requests a PCS advance payment.
      When an extension of repayment period is requested, subsequent to the advance, the DD Form 2560
      is attached to the DTL for submission to DFAS-DE as support for the DT04 transaction.
      35.4.3. The FSO may (but is not required to) offset the amount of any subsequent advance by the
      unpaid amount of a prior advance; multiple DVs are allowed.
      35.4.4. Retention of Daily EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form when payment has been made
      by DFAS-DE using EFT. The Confirmed Daily EFT Payment Data Report is available on SAR, under
      JFAREG, ID is FA0341D. Two copies of this report should be printed out daily when EFT payments
      have been confirmed/authorized by your FSO for any one business day. Attach original Daily EFT
      Payment Request/Authorization Form to one copy and a copy of the EFT Form to the second copy of
      the report. Enter the following note on your DTL: “For daily EFT data, see attached listing,” and
      attach report with original EFT form request to your DTL. The DTL gets forwarded to DFAS-DE by
      the 15th of the month following the current business month. The second Daily EFT Payment Data
      Report is maintained at FSO level for 1 year after reconciliation (Air Force Records Disposition
      Schedule), provided there are no outstanding discrepancies for which corrective action has been pre-
      scribed by DFAS-DE/FJ.
      35.4.5. When a member receives an advance of pay from a friendly foreign nation and payment is
      chargeable to a military pay appropriation (P510 or 530), a copy of the paid voucher must be sent to
      DFAS-DE/FJF for preparation of input transactions.

35.5. Special Provisions. PCS advance payments are to be repaid at a rate of not less than one-twelfth of
the amounts advanced each month for the next 12 months, unless a reduced amount is justified and
approved in writing due to financial hardship. (See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 32, table 32-2).
Members may make cash payments to repay an advance partially or in full at any time.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                             629


Figure 35.1. AF Form 265, AFO Payment Authorization.
630                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 35.2. DD Form 2560, Advance Pay Certification/Authorization.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                   631


Figure 35.3. Daily EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form.
632                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 35.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO - Authorized Payments for Advance Pay-
ments.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0PA03/06 OR APA05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


      27-30     ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


      32-39     PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-48     AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


      49-51     CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


       52       ADVANCE PAY CATEGORY CODE. SEE Attachment 3
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         633


CHARACTER                                DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     53      NUMBER OF MONTHS THAT ADVANCE WAS PAID (1, 2 OR 3) WHEN CP 52
             IS F; OTHERWISE, BLANK


     54      COLLECTION START CODE: 0 IF 52 =F, 1-4 IF 52 = B OR G, SPACE IF 52 = S,
             1 FOR ALL OTHERS


     55      1 IF MMPA HAS NOT BEE ESTABLISHED; OTHERWISE BLANK


    56-57    NUMBER OF MONTHS REPAY: 1-60 IF 52 = B, SPACE IF 52 = F, 1-24 FOR
             ALL OTHERS


    58-59    NUMBER OF MONTHS DEFERRED (1-96) WHEN CP 52 IS S; OTHERWISE,
             BLANK


    60-63    PAYROLL NUMBER


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
634                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 35.1. AF Form 265 Preparation.
                 A                                               B
R
U     To process local          takes this action
      payments
L
E
    1 Military Pay Technician determines amount due (using LES, CRT, PCS package, etc.).
                              Prepares AF Form 265. Uses typewriter or prints manually using
                              ball-point pen or indelible pencil to ensure legibility of all copies.
                              Presents an AF Form 265 to chief, Military Pay, or designated
                              official for approval and signature. Strikeovers and erasures on
                              amounts shown are prohibited. When an error is made in amount,
                              line out but do not obliterate incorrect entry. Enter correct amount
                              and take to chief, Military Pay, to initial correction. Take MPO
                              copies 1 and 2 of AF Form 265, to Paying and Collecting. Send
                              copy 3 of AF Form 265 to Quality Examination.
    2 Paying and Collecting a. verifies authenticity of approving official's signature.
                                b. requests identification of member.
                                c. makes payment and secures signature of payee on AF Form 265.
                                d. at end of day, prepares DD Form 117 (see Figure 76.2.) in
                                duplicate to cover payments made on AF Forms 265 (for certifying
                                officials see DFAS-DER 7010-1), (notes 1 and 2).
                                e. retains original DD Form 117 and copy 1 of the AF Form 265 for
                                submission to
                                DFAS-DE; attaches copy 2 of AF Form 265 to duplicate DD Form
                                117 and forwards to Quality Examination. (Note: For PCS
                                advances or advance housing allowance payments attach the AF
                                Form 1039 and/or AF Form 1002 to the AF Form 265).
    3 Quality Examination       on receipt of duplicate voucher and AF Forms 265:
                                a. compares money list with copy 4 AF Form 265 to ensure that
                                names, control numbers, and amounts paid agree.
                                b. if above comparisons reveal any discrepancies, determines reason
                                and notifies chief, Military Pay.
                                c. if no discrepancies are found, includes copy 4 AF Form 265 in
                                next update forwarded to installation processing center (IPC).
                                d. ensures that proper supporting documents are submitted.
                                (Advance payments to E-4 (senior airmen) or below require
                                commander's or recruiting officer's approval).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           635


NOTES:
  1. For AF Forms 265, the chief of Military Pay or designated official is not the certifying official.
     His or her signature provides a means for Paying and Collecting (P&C) to verify that the proper
     authority has approved the AF Form 265 before payment.
   2. For DD Forms 117, the FSO/agent, or designee may certify in Block 10. The chief of Military
      Pay may be designated to sign as the certifying official in the Military Pay SMA. When the chief
      of Military Pay does sign in Block 10 as the certifying official, he or she is not also required to
      sign in Block 16 as reviewer. Block 16 is only completed when the reviewer is someone other
      than preparer (Block 15) or certifying official (Block 10). As prescribed in DoDFMR, Volume 5,
      "The chief of P&C, even if he or she is also a deputy, should not routinely certify vouchers for
      payment." This does not apply however when the DD Form 117 summarizes several AF Forms
      265. In that situation, the chief of P&C may certify Block 10 of the DD Form 117 for the conve-
      nience of the Military Pay SMA. The chief of Military Pay/designated official is not the certify-
      ing official in this case but the approving official. The signature provides a means for P&C to
      verify that the proper authority approved the AF Form before payment.
636                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 35.2. EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form Preparation.
                 A                                               B
R
U     To Process Payments     take this action
L     Through Direct
E     Deposit
    1 Customer Service        Determines amount due (using LES, CRT, PCS package, etc). Prepares
                              EFT Payment Request/Authorization Form. Uses typewriter or prints
                              manually using ball point pen or indelible pencil to ensure legibility.
                              Obtains Certifying Officials signature in “AUTHORIZED BY” block.
                              Forwards form to processing section.
    2 Processing Section      Enter the payment request/authorization into DJMS using CICS Trans ID
                              “JPBB” and enters USER ID and date in block 9 under “INPUT BY”.
    3 Finance Officer/        a. Signs onto DJMS and uses CICS Trans ID “JPBX” to confirm or reject
      Disbursing Officer or   the payment request/authorization. (See note 1)
      Designee                b. Enters USER ID and date in block 9 under “CONFIRMED BY”.
                              c. Prepares a generic cover sheet titled: EFT Payment Request/
                              Authorization. Enters date EFT Requests/Authorizations were submitted
                              through CICS on this generic cover sheet.
                              d. Attaches EFT Request/Authorization forms to cover sheet for each
                              business day and forwards to Chief, Quality Examination.
    4 Finance Officer/        a. Pulls a copy of Confirmed Daily EFT Payment Data, PCN
      Disbursing Officer or   UH099C0341 from Sysout Archieval Retrieval (SAR). (See note 2)
      Designee                b. Ensures proper supporting documents are submitted with EFT request.
                              (Some advances require Commander’s approval).
                              c. Compares members appearing on UH099C0341 with EFT Payment
                              Request/Authorization forms to ensure names, SSNs and amounts paid
                              agree.
                              d. If above comparisons reveal any discrepancies, determines reason.
                              Chief, Military Pay or designee makes corrections as necessary.
                              e. If members do not appear on UH099C0341 look on reject file using the
                              same CICS Trans ID that was used during the initial input and take
                              appropriate action.

NOTES:
  1. During input of CICS Trans ID “JPBB” or “JPBX”, if the amount entered exceeds the established
     tolerance per payment a message will appear on the screen. When that occurs, DFAS-DE/FJFA,
     DSN 926-7221/7222, will have to be notified to make that payment for the field through daily
     Direct Deposit.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       637


  2. The business day for Direct Deposit payments of these types runs from 9:00 a.m. M.T. of one day
     to 9:00 a.m. M.T. of the next day (Denver time). Product Control Number (PCN) UH099C0341 is
     created on a daily basis and includs payments confirmed for a specific business day by the bases
     that requested payments to be sent through Direct Deposit. This product is in Confirmed User ID
     sequence and is available through Sysout Archieval Retrieval (SAR) on a daily basis after the
     payments have been released to the Federal Reserve Bank.
638                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 36

                                  PARTIAL AND CASUAL PAYMENTS

36.1. Description. Transient or casual payments are payments made to members away from their home
stations. Partial payments are payments made to individual members (or groups when approved by the
organization commander) at their home stations. See the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 1.

36.2. Substantiating Documents:
      36.2.1. AF Form 265, FSO Payment Authorization (See Figure 35.1. and Table 35.1.). Used by the
      FSO to authorize payment of a PK (partial) or PC (casual). (See Figure 36.2. through 36.3.)
      36.2.2. DD Form 115, Military Payroll Money List. (See Figure 36.1.) Used to report a partial pay-
      ment. (See Figure 36.2. through Figure 36.3.)

36.3. Responsibilities. The FSO ensures that the member receives only that amount accrued to date less
normal deductions. For information concerning different organizations' responsibilities relative to casual
payments. (See paragraph 36.4. below.)

36.4. Special Provisions - Casual Payments:
      36.4.1. Members at Location Where FSO Service Is Not Available. When a member reports to a duty
      station where an FSO is not available, he or she may request a casual payment from the MPF, GSU,
      personnel clerk, commander, or senior military member in charge, as applicable to member's specific
      duty location. For members who do not participate in direct deposit, the payment will be paid by the
      FSO servicing the member’s duty station. (See Figure 36.2. for PC transactions.) Members who do
      participate in direct deposit will have their payment sent to their bank account through the use of CICS
      trans ID ‘JPBB’ (see subparagraph 38.9.2. for a more detailed scenario of this payment process. After
      the money has been transmitted to the bank, a payment transaction (PC03) will be systematically cre-
      ated to post against the member’s MMPA.
      36.4.2. Member in Process of Accession to the Air Force. Process as casual payment, and submit a
      PC03 to DJMS-AC. If the MMPA has not been established, the transaction will reject to the input
      source. If the transaction rejects, verify name and SSN before following up with the servicing MPF to
      determine why the accession has not been accomplished. If accession has since been accomplished,
      resubmit PC03 transaction using reject procedures.
      36.4.3. Member in Need of Transportation. A member traveling or on leave with delay enroute with-
      out sufficient funds must contact the transportation management office (TMO). The TMO furnishes
      the member a cost charge government transportation request or ticket. A member traveling without
      orders must be directed to the local order-issuing authority to obtain proper orders before being issued
      a transportation request (TR) or ticket.
         36.4.3.1. Documents furnished by the transportation office (local payment of airline transporta-
         tion). The travel area sends to the military pay area:
             36.4.3.1.1. Copy of orders authorizing issuance of each cost charge ticket.
             36.4.3.1.2. Copy of the applicable AF Form 529, Request for Air Carrier Service, showing the
             cost of the ticket.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        639


NOTE: The above documentation flows from the travel section only if airline transportation costs are
paid locally. Non-local payment of airline charges are paid by transportation operations, DFAS-IN, and
are posted as a PC to the MMPA by DFAS-DE/FJF.
       36.4.3.2. Reporting payment. Report a PC based on the transportation documents furnished by
       the travel section. Submit one PZ for 510 charges and one PZ for 530 charges.
       36.4.3.3. Refunds. Refer member to the local TMO for refund information.
       36.4.3.4. Absentees or deserters. Follow the same procedures as outlined in subparagraph c
       above.
   36.4.4. Member arrives at new duty station. FSO must first determine financial need of member.
   Review member's MMPA to determine payment data. If the system is down, use the data in the PCS
   package (if applicable) or endorsed travel orders. Use casual payment procedures as described above
   and report payment to DFAS-DE promptly. Under no circumstances should payments to member be
   delayed.
   36.4.5. Casual payments to members of other services. (See Chapter 77 of this volume.)

36.5. Partial Payments. Authorized partial payments may be made only under extremely extenuating
circumstances or due to an emergency. The amount may not exceed accrued pay and allowances to date
less normal statutory deductions. FSO reports abuses of partial payment policy to member's unit com-
mander. Members who participate in direct deposit will have their payment sent to their bank account
through the use of CICS trans ID ‘JPBB’ (see subparagraph 38.9.2. for a more detailed scenario of this
payment process). For these payments a PK03 transaction will not be required form the field. The CICS
trans ID will automatically generate one for each payment. Members who do not participate in direct
deposit will receive their payment locally and will require the servicing FSO to input the PK03.
640                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 36.1. DD Form 115, Military Payroll Money List (to Report a Partial Payment).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               641


Figure 36.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO Authorized Payments for Casual Payments.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PC03/06 OR APC05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B--ARMY
                C--NAVY
                D--MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT
                R--ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK

       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-45      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


     46-48      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510--OFFICER
                530--ENLISTED


     53-54      RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
642                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      57-60   PAYROLL NUMBER


       66     RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE


              NOTE:
              A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
              CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
              THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    643


Figure 36.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Partial Pay.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PK03/06 OR APK05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B--ARMY
                C--NAVY
                D--MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT
                R--ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK

       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-46      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


     47-49      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510--OFFICER
                530--ENLISTED


     53-54      RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
644                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      57-60   PAYROLL NUMBER


       66     RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE


              NOTE:
              A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
              CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
              THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             645


                                               Chapter 37

                                       ONE-TIME PAYMENTS

37.1. Description. One-time pay authorizations are issued by DFAS-DE based on a special event or con-
dition creating entitlement to the payment. If a member is not a direct deposit participant he/she will be
paid locally by the FSO. Those that are not paid locally are paid by the DFAS Central Site through the
electronic funds transfer system (EFTS). At the member’s request, those that are paid locally may be
included in the next regular paycheck through the use of a special transaction (action indicator 26).
One-time payments are subject to federal and state taxation and income tax withholdings are deducted in
accordance with federal and state legal requirements. See chapters relating to specific entitlement for FID
information.

37.2. Timing of Payments. One-time payment authorizations include the type of payment and the effec-
tive date of the payment as well as the net amount of the payment. The amount may not be paid prior to
that date under any circumstance since the event causing the entitlement must occur before the entitlement
to the funds actually exists.
   37.2.1. Do not make separation payments to separated members more than 2 workdays after the sep-
   aration date without contacting DFAS-DE/FJPS via E-Mail or calling to obtain a payment control
   number.
   37.2.2. Arrears of pay for deceased members are paid by DFAS-DE and include any outstanding pay
   authorization on the MMPA. See Chapter 54 for more detailed information.

37.3. Procedures.
   37.3.1. Local Payees. One-time pay authorizations received by the FSO are routed with other
   DJMS-AC transactions to the FSO for production of print listings. The printout includes a one-time
   pay authorization money list. The money list is used for inserting check number data, signature infor-
   mation, or other disposition notations. When members are not paid one-time authorization amounts
   by the recipient FSO, the money list item is red-lined and annotated to facilitate disposition.
   37.3.2. Central Payees. For central payees the authorization for the payment will appear on a special
   electronic funds transfer (EFT) file. If the FSO finds that the member should not receive the one-time
   payment through EFT, Central Site (Accounting and Analysis Branch of the Military Pay Directorate)
   should be notified. Central Site will remove the member’s pay authorization from the special EFT file
   prior to transmission of the payment to his/her bank account. Central payees one-time pay authoriza-
   tions will also be received by the FSO and routed with other DJMS transactions to the FSO for pro-
   duction of print listings. This printout will include one-time pay authorization messages for central
   payees. If a member is being paid his/her one-time payment through EFT, a message stating that will
   appear on this money list after the payment has been made.

37.4. Reject Corrections:
   37.4.1. Y Rejects. DFAS-DE processes payments and collections to members' accounts where mini-
   mum data is available in transactions received. For example, a reported payment with an invalid
   voucher number is processed if member identification, amount, and effective date are available. This
   transaction is rejected to the input source as a Y-type reject indicating DFAS-DE has processed the
646                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      transaction against the member's MMPA but some data requires correction (indicated by the error
      code). When the corrected transaction is submitted, DFAS-DE clears the reject and the FSO submits
      an 05 transaction to correct the member's MMPA.
      37.4.2. Z Rejects. When a transaction cannot be processed because of missing or invalid minimum
      data, or because it is a duplicate, the transaction is totally rejected as a Z-type reject. These rejects
      identify the type of reject and contain error codes. To correct Z-type rejects, analyze the error codes
      in relation to reject type, input transaction coding, and source documents supporting the transaction.
      Correct any source documents containing erroneous codes and submit the correct transaction as
      instructed in Chapter 4 of this volume. Correction of rejects must be made within 3 workdays after
      receipt of the reject.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                647


                                                Chapter 38

                                      DIRECT DEPOSIT OF PAY

38.1. Description. Direct deposit is a payment method to automatically deliver a member’s pay to a
checking or savings account designated by the member. Participation in the direct deposit program was
mandated by the Department of Defense for all military members in April 1992. Public Law (P.L.)
104-134, The Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, further mandated that by January 1, 1999, all
Federal payments be made by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), a form of direct deposit. The new law
covers all categories of DoD personnel, including civilians, military, military retirees, reserve and annu-
itants. The law also requires all new payments after July 26, 1996, be made by EFT.

38.2. Enrollment. Military members are enrolled in Direct Deposit by providing a SF Form 1199A,
Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form (Figure 38.1.), to their local military pay office. This form is completed by
the member's financial institution of choice and signed by both the member and the financial institution.
The enrollment stays in effect until the member changes financial institutions and provides a new SF
1199A or the member provides a written waiver of direct deposit participation signed by the commander.
If members already have an account with a financial institution, the U.S. Treasury FMS Form 2231, Fast-
start Direct Deposit (Figure 38.3.), can be used and is completed by the member – no requirement for the
financial institution to complete any part of the form. See paragraph 38.4.3. for instructions on this form.

38.3. Pay Option. Both members participating in direct deposit and those with approved waivers have
the option of receiving their pay once a month (on the first day of the month for the prior month) or twice
a month (on the first of the month and the 15th of the month). If no election is made to establish a change
to pay option, all members will be paid twice each month.
   38.3.1. Use DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, to change a member's pay option from once a month
   to twice a month or the reverse. Type the statement: Change of pay option to once/twice a month per
   the request of the member. Include the member's name, SSN, signature and date.
   38.3.2. Process LH04 to change pay option. (See Figure 38.4.)

38.4. Substantiating Documents:
   38.4.1. SF Form 1199A is used to substantiate designation of a member's financial institution. To
   ensure the integrity of both Air Force and Treasury regulations are maintained, ensure the following
   actions are completed prior to processing:
       38.4.1.1. The financial institution has properly completed and signed the SF 1199A, or
       38.4.1.2. If the financial institution is outside of the local area, the member provides proof that the
       account exists (checking account deposit slips, passbook, account identification card, etc.) and a
       copy of the FSO completed SF Form 1199A is mailed to the receiving financial institution within
       1 business day. Ensure the FSO address is included in section 2 of the form.
NOTE: Use voided check to determine the correct routing transit number for the financial institution.
       38.4.1.3. Complete SF 1199A as follows:
           38.4.1.3.1. Section 1, item A, name of payee - enter member's name, address, and telephone
           number.
648                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             38.4.1.3.2. Section 1, item B, name of person entitled to payment - enter member's name.
             38.4.1.3.3. Section 1, item C, claim or payroll ID number - enter member's SSN.
             38.4.1.3.4. Section 1, item D, type of depositor account - check the applicable block, checking
             or savings.
             38.4.1.3.5. Section 1, item E, depositor account number - enter member's account number.
             38.4.1.3.6. Section 1, item F, type of payment - check the applicable block, mil active and
             enter "USAF (SALARY)".
             38.4.1.3.7. Section 1, item G, used for allotments only.
             38.4.1.3.8. Payee/joint payee certification - enter member's signature and current date.
             38.4.1.3.9. Section 2, government agency name and address - enter the name of your FSO and
             the return address.
             38.4.1.3.10. Section 3, routing number and check digit - enter the Financial Organization's
             (FI's) routing number and check digit from the company code table.
         38.4.1.4. After completion of SF 1199A, separate the form. The program agency copy is used to
         process an LH01 (start) or LH04 (change) transaction. (See Figure 38.4.) The company code,
         transaction number, and effective date must be annotated on the program agency copy. This copy
         is then used to support the LH01 or LH04 entry on the DTL. The FI copy is mailed to the FI with
         a letter of explanation. (See example 1.) The recipient's (payee) copy is given to the member.
         38.4.1.5. If the FI determines there is an error in the routing number or account number, they will
         contact the FSO, which prepared the SF 1199A, by telephone or letter, for correction or, in the case
         of a non-collocated FI, the FI may contact DFAS-DE/FJFBA, at 303-676-7171, or process a Noti-
         fication of Change (NOC) through the Federal Reserve. A photocopy of the SF 1199A with cor-
         rections annotated may also be used to correct the MMPA. Problems related to receipt of EFTS
         data should be referred to the servicing Federal Reserve office or DFAS-DE/FJFBA by the FI.
             38.4.1.5.1. Example 1: Letter of explanation to FI.
             "TO: Financial Institution
             The attached Standard Form(s) 1199A are for Air Force active duty members who desire to
             have their salary(ies) sent to your financial institution. If there is an error in the routing num-
             ber or account number, please contact this office for correction. Contact may be made by tele-
             phone, letter, or by returning a photocopy of the SF 1199A with corrections annotated.
             Our address is (FSO address) and our telephone number is (FSO local telephone number).
             Problems related to receipt of Electronic Fund Transfer System data should be referred to your
             servicing Federal Reserve office or, as appropriate, DFAS-DE/FJFB, 303-676-7171." (Local
             reproduction is authorized.)
      38.4.2. AF Form 1745, Address Change Form, is used to change a member's correspondence address,
      check and W-2 address, LES address, and may be used to change bond mailing address(es). (See Fig-
      ure 38.2.) The original is the DJMS supporting document and the copy must be forwarded to the
      member's servicing MPF (or unit if PC III is used) unless ONLY bond addresses are changed.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           649


   38.4.3. FMS Form 2231, Faststart Direct Deposit Form (Figure 38.3.) may be used to start direct
   deposit if a member has an existing account at a financial institution. It can be found at HTTP://
   WWW.FMS.TREAS.GOV. Ensure sections 1, 2, 3 and 5 of this form are completed. It is suggested
   that a check/sharedraft be attached by the member so the FSO can verify the correct routing indicator
   and account number have been entered on the form. This form does not have to be sent to the finan-
   cial institution.
   38.4.4. DELETED.

38.5. Waivers to Participation in Direct Deposit. Individuals must certify in writing that they do not
have a financial institution.
   38.5.1. For active duty members, certifications must be submitted in writing to their unit commander.
   Members should be instructed to obtain a checking or savings account at a financial institution. The
   length of the waiver is at the discretion of the commander, but all waivers are currently scheduled to
   expired December 31, 1998. All check payments will be mailed on payday from the servicing DFAS
   Central Site to the member’s mailing address.
   38.5.2. For retirees, certifications must be submitted in writing to:
      Defense Finance and Accounting Service
      US Military Retirement Pay
      PO Box 7130
      London KY 40742-7130
   38.5.3. For Annuitants, certifications must be submitted in writing to:
      Defense Finance and Accounting Service
      US Military Annuity Pay
      PO Box 7131
      London KY 40742-7131

38.6. Changes Requested by the Financial Institution:
   38.6.1. After receipt of the SF 1199A in cases outlined above, the FI may determine there is an error
   in the transit routing number, account number, account type, or account holder's name. The FI will
   contact the FSO shown in section 2 of the SF 1199A, and advise of required corrective actions or pro-
   cess an NOC. These actions should be taken immediately to prevent delays in use of deposit funds
   and do not require member's signature or approval.
   38.6.2. NOCs are sent electronically to DFAS-DE by financial institutions to correct account number
   or type or transit routing number. Changes made as a result of an NOC appear as Processed Transac-
   tions Originated By-Others (see Chapter 2 of this volume) and should be reviewed on a daily basis
   along with all by-others transactions.
   38.6.3. Payments Returned by FIs. If a direct deposit is returned by an FI as unpostable, DFAS-DE/
   FJFB will stop direct deposit for that individual unless a change has been made to the LH transaction
   between the time the payment was released and when it returned. The stop will appear on the by-other
   listing referenced in subparagraph 38.6.2. above. FSOs must immediately contact the member and
650                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      advise that action is required to correct the bank information. If MM or EOM cutoff passes, the mem-
      ber will become a local payee until a new LH is processed by the FSO.

38.7. Reimbursement for Bank Overdraft or Failure to Maintain Minimum Balance Charges.
      38.7.1. In accordance with Title 10 U.S.C. subsection 1053, a member of the armed forces, who
      entered active duty on or after 1 July 1989, (or who reenlisted or received a regular commission on or
      after 1 September 1989) and was required to participate in direct deposit, may be reimbursed an over-
      draft charge, or a minimum balance or average balance charge, that is levied by a financial institution.
      This charge must have resulted from an administrative or mechanical error on the part of the govern-
      ment that caused the pay of the person concerned to be deposited late or in an incorrect manner or
      amount. (The term “financial institution” means a bank, savings and loan association, or similar insti-
      tution, or a credit union chartered by the United States or a state.)
      38.7.2. In order for the member to apply for reimbursement, the FSO must establish a CMS case to
      the DFAS-AC Payroll\Nonreceipt of Check box. Ensure the case contains: member’s claim for reim-
      bursement of bank charges; copy of the bank statement assessing the charges and showing the actual
      deposit date; a statement of the FSO’s request to the member’s financial institution for waiver of
      charges (including the bank’s response); a statement by the FSO explaining the reasons for the situa-
      tion; and FSO’s statement of any extenuating circumstances. If approved, reimbursements will be
      included in the member’s pay. No separate checks will be issued.
      38.7.3. Reimbursement can only be made for the charges assessed by the financial organization main-
      taining member’s direct deposit account. Reimbursement will not be allowed for overdraft charges
      from businesses (to include landlords), overdraft charges from allotments, or wire transfer fees.

38.8. Direct Deposit and Allotments to Same Account. Air Force policy does not prevent a member
from having an allotment and DIRECT DEPOSIT going to the same account. However, members should
be advised that financially it is to their advantage to have all money transferred through twice-a-month
DIRECT DEPOSIT. This makes half the allotted amount available 15 days earlier. To be sure members
consider this point, the FSO should include this information in any written instructions concerning com-
pletion of SF 1199A and/or have the pay technician ask the member if he or she has both DIRECT
DEPOSIT and an allotment to the same account. Our objective is to be sure the member has considered
the full advantages of DIRECT DEPOSIT over an allotment.

38.9. Direct Deposit of Payments Other than Normal Payroll.
      38.9.1. One-time payments. See paragraph 37.3. for additional details of this process.
         38.9.1.1. Initial re-enlistment and separation payments (PQ). These payments are reported man-
         ually by the FSO via JPBB or input via a PQ03, see paragraphs 52.6. and 53.5. for additional
         details.
             38.9.1.1.1. Under this concept, the FSO receives a PQ pay authorization for one of these types
             of payments. In the case of the initial reenlistment bonus, use CICS transaction ID ‘JPBB’ to
             enter the appropriate data, based upon the authorization received, for the member’s payment.
             In the case of a separation payment, the payment data is entered into the system using CICS
             transaction id ‘JPBB’ after the normal manual computation has been completed (see Chapter
             52).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            651


         38.9.1.1.2. In either case, this data may be entered into the system up to 10 days prior to the
         effective date of the payment. Anytime within that 10-day window, the FSO or designee can
         retrieve the member’s payment request record from the EFT file at Central Site using CICS
         transaction id ‘JPBX’ to confirm the payment. If, after the payment has been confirmed, it is
         discovered that the amount originally input changed, the payment can be canceled off the EFT
         file and re-input/confirmed prior to the business day cutoff on the effective date. After confir-
         mation is complete, the payment will reside on the EFT file until the effective date, at which
         time it will be released to the member’s bank account through the Federal Reserve Bank
         (FRB). The effective date for separations is the member’s DOS. The effective date for reen-
         listment is the date the member re-enlists, and is not to be confirmed until member provides
         proof of reenlistment to FSO. After the payment has been transmitted to the FRB, DJMS gen-
         erates a PQ03 payment transaction to be posted against the member’s MMPA.
         38.9.1.1.3. If for some reason the payment is not confirmed by the effective date, or is rejected
         by the FSO or designee, the payment request appears on a reject file, available through CICS
         transaction ‘JPBB’ or ‘JPBX’, for viewing/printing. View the reject file on a daily basis to
         identify any other reasons for rejects on member’s payment requests.
         38.9.1.1.4. After payments have been transmitted for a business day, they are available on a
         report (UH099C0341, confirmed daily EFT payment data) for the FSO to retrieve through
         Sysout Archival Retrieval (SAR). This daily report contains payment requests for members
         for each business day (approximately 09:00 a.m. MT on one day to 09:00 a.m. MT of the next
         day). Use this report as a tool to verify payment requests for a particular business day.
     38.9.1.2. Subsequent re-enlistment installments (PL and PM payments), special pay for medical
     and dental officers (ASP, ISP, MSP, CRNA - PJ payments), aviator continuation pay (ACP - PR
     payments). For central payees, these payments will be generated by central site and paid via the
     EFTS. No action is taken by the FSO. For central payees, and additional information, see
     Chapter 37 and:
         38.9.1.2.1. Paragraph 10.12. for additional details about ASP, ISP, MSP and CRNA.
         38.9.1.2.2. Paragraph 16.4. for additional details about ACP.
         38.9.1.2.3. Paragraph 53.5. for additional details about re-enlistment installments.
  38.9.2. FSO authorized payments - advance (PA), casual (PC) and partial (PK) payments. When the
  member requires one of these type payments, authorized individual signs on to CICSJ3 region and
  uses CICS transaction ID "JPBB" to enter the appropriate data for the member’s payment. There is an
  established tolerance for each type of payment that finance must not exceed. If, for some reason, that
  tolerance is exceeded, a message will appear on the screen. Finance will not be allowed to continue
  for that particular payment. Contact central site with either a message or fax in these cases to have
  DFAS-PMJ/DE make the payments that exceeded the tolerance. If the payment is below the estab-
  lished tolerance, once the data is entered, the FSO or designee signs on using CICS transaction id
  "JPBX" to review the payment request. After review, the payment will be confirmed or rejected by
  the FSO or designee by entering a ‘y’ (yes) or ‘n’ (no) in the appropriate block on the screen. If the
  payment request is confirmed, an image of the payment data is sent to a file at Central Site to be
  vouchered and transmitted to the FRB using EFT, then on to the member's bank account. Payment
  will normally be in the member's bank account within twenty-four hours. After the payment has been
  transmitted to the FRB, DJMS generates a PA, PC or PK transaction to be posted against the member's
652                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      MMPA. If the payment request is rejected, it appears on a reject file at Central Site for approximately
      two weeks. There are other reasons that the payment will reject at Central Site even after the payment
      has been confirmed. For example, one reason is if the member's status does not allow payment to be
      made. Access this reject file through CICS transaction id "JPBB" or "JPBX" to ensure the payment
      was not rejected after input. After payments have been transmitted for a business day, they will be
      available on SAR report UH099C0341, confirmed daily EFT payment data. This daily report con-
      tains payment requests for members for each business day, which runs from approximately 9:00 a.m.
      MT of one day to 9:00 a.m. MT of the next day. These times are local time in Denver, Colorado. Use
      this report to verify the payment requests from the EFT payment request/authorization form for a par-
      ticular business day.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                            653


Figure 38.1. SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form.
654                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 38.2. AF Form 1745, Address Change Form.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                              655


Figure 38.3. FMS 2231, FASTSTART Direct/Deposit Form.
656                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 38.4. Formats to Start/Stop/Change Payments to a Financial Organization.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0LH01/02/04


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMM01 OR YYMM16


      32-38      COMPANY CODE:
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 01--APPLICABLE CODE
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02--BLANK
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 04--APPLICABLE CODE OR BLANK
                 IF THE COMPANY CODE IS PRESENT, THE TRANSIT ROUTING NUMBER
                 (CHARACTER POSITIONS 58-66) IS NOT REQUIRED


      39-55      ACCOUNT POLICY NUMBER:
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 01--ACCOUNT POLICY NUMBER
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02--BLANK
                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 04--ACCOUNT POLICY NUMBER (IF BEING
                 CHANGED) OR BLANK (IF NOT BEING CHANGED)


       56        FOR ACTION INDICATOR 01:
                 C--PAYMENTS MADE TWICE A MONTH TO AN FO
                 D--PAYMENTS MADE ONCE A MONTH TO AN FO
                 BLANK IF NOT CHANGING FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT


                 FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02:
                 L--PAYMENTS MADE TWICE A MONTH LOCALLY
                 M--PAYMENTS MADE ONCE A MONTH LOCALLY
                 BLANK IF NOT CHANGING FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              657


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             FOR ACTION INDICATOR 04:
             BLANK IF FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT IS NOT BEING CHANGED
             IF FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT IS BEING CHANGED AND COMPANY CODE
             OR ACCOUNT NUMBER IS ALSO CHANGED, C OR D AS APPROPRIATE
             IF FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT IS ALL THAT IS BEING CHANGED,
             APPROPRIATE CODE C, D, L OR M


     57      C--CHECKING ACCOUNT
             S--SAVINGS ACCOUNT


    58-66    TRANS-RTE-NUM. MUST BE NUMERIC OR SPACES - IF NUMERIC, MUST
             BE GREATER THAN 0. IF THE TRANSIT ROUTING NUMBER IS PRESENT,
             THE COMPANY CODE (CHARACTER POSITIONS 32-38) IS NOT
             REQUIRED.
658                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 38.5. Format to Waiver Payments to Financial Organizations.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0LH21


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20       MISC-TYPE: MUST EQUAL W (COMPUTER GENERATED)


      21-26     EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD; MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN
                CURRENT DATE


      27-67     BLANK.


      68-80     COMMON DATA.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             659


                                              Chapter 39

                                            ACCESSIONS

39.1. Description. An accession transaction establishes a skeleton MMPA for members entering or reen-
tering the Air Force after a break in service of one day or more.

39.2. FSO Actions:
   39.2.1. Members Requiring Accession. Coordinate with MPF on all members who do not have a
   fully accessed MMPA (Master Military Pay Account). If the MPF is unable to submit or get the
   accession transaction to process to DJMS-AC within 14 workdays after the member’s arrival at the
   base, a CMS (Case Management System) case must be set up. Coordinate with the local MPF and
   have them set up the CMS case for the accession problem, to the correct folder or box within CMS
   (enlisted or officer), per instructions provided them by HQ AFPC. If the MPF is unwilling or unable
   to establish the CMS case, establish the CMS case in finance and refer to local MPF employments.
   Make sure specific information about the member, and nature of the problem, are included in the CMS
   case, to include information on the number of partial/casual payments made.
   39.2.2. Processing Delays. Contact DFAS-DE/FJY if accession transactions are not processed or
   rejected within 7 days after submission. Provide transmission number, transaction number and MPF
   ID.
   39.2.3. Input of MMPA Transactions. Require newly accessed members to complete all forms relat-
   ing to allowances, tax deductions, allotments, and other pay actions affecting the MMPA. Until the
   FSO confirms that an accession transaction processed, use code 3 in the first position of the action
   indicator of all transactions input for members entering the Air Force. DFAS-DE will recycle these
   transactions for 30 or 60 days if member is in a V or T status (the accession transaction cannot process
   until the month after the member is put in a V status and the accession transaction is recycled RBM).
NOTE: Use of code 3 causes the transaction to recycle until the accession transaction processes, accord-
ing to normal update logic. This can cause BAS transactions to reject if member is accessed in a PCS sta-
tus.
       39.2.3.1. Obtain completed TD Form W-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate, and
       DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate, from Service member to establish legal res-
       idence, actual number of exemptions, and marital status. (See Chapter 56 for details.) The FSO
       where the member first reports for duty must submit this information using an MG and/or applica-
       ble transactions.
       39.2.3.2. If TAX-AUTH-CITY-STATE is 098, at the time the E203 processes, the FSO will
       receive a UDN reject of the E2 transaction to notify the FSO that member must declare a legal res-
       idence and an MG transaction must be sent to DFAS-DE. A 60-day suspense is established for
       receipt of the MG transaction. At the end of 60 days, the FSO receives a UDN reject of the sus-
       pense transaction and a new 30-day suspense is established if the MG has not been received. If the
       30 day suspense is not cleared, it is rejected to DFAS-DE/FJ for follow-up action.
       39.2.3.3. Input PT transaction for all enlisted members. See Chapter 33.
   39.2.4. Service Component. The service component code is used to determine what appropriation
   will bear the expense. Service component codes of R, G, and V will result in a charge to the active
660                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      duty appropriation. A service component code of S will result in a charge to the reserve appropriation.
      A service component code of N will result in a charge to the guard appropriation.

39.3. Accession Input. Three general types of accession transactions are used. Partial accession transac-
tions (EA and E101 only) establish minimum information as in paragraph 39.4. Full accession transac-
tions (E103 and E203) complete the MMPA and override certain accession data previously reported.
Accession correct transactions (EA05 and E205) are explained in 39.3.5. Except as noted below, all trans-
actions place members in an A status (on station) at their permanent duty base. Use of accession transac-
tions by type of Service member:
      39.3.1. Basic Military Trainees (BMT). All BMTs entering the Regular Air Force for enlisted duty
      are accessed by Lackland AFB with an E101 and an E103 transaction (for BMTs entering the Air
      Reserve Forces. (See Volume III.)
         39.3.1.1. The E101 establishes MMPAs using name, SSN, extended active duty (EAD) date, and
         sex code and places accounts in a special "BMT" status (FID PO) which holds member's pay while
         in BMT. Each BMT receives three payments during training: Payment at a flat rate on the second
         day of training (the accession (E101) is based on this payment), a mid-training payment at a flat
         rate, and a graduation payment for net pay due up to day of graduation. AFPC match flag 7 or Z
         is used to establish these accounts. (See paragraph 39.5.)
         39.3.1.2. The E103 transaction contains all data necessary to complete the information in the
         MMPA, overrides E101 input and establishes a full account for members which initially may not
         have been processed with an E101 as in 39.3.1. above. Graduates are not placed in a PCS status
         on transfer out. Gaining bases process SG03 arrival transactions as soon as the member arrives to
         remove member from BMT status (servicing ADSN 9998).
      39.3.2. Reenlistees. Enlisted members reenlisting with a break in service may have either an E203 or
      both a EA03 and an E203 accession transaction(s) submitted to DFAS-DE:
         39.3.2.1. An EA transaction submitted by AFPC after member has enlisted. This transaction con-
         tains only DOE date, grade, sex, prior Service military department, MPF-NR, MAJCOM ID, gain-
         ing MPF number (if member is sent to AETC for training), and pay date (this date is based only on
         member's prior Active Service and does not consider Reserve time). It establishes an MMPA so
         the FSO can provide immediate pay service to the member. The EA transaction puts member in a
         PCS status with movement reason code I. Reenlistment bonuses are computed and processed as
         shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A. These accounts are established with an AFPC match code 6.
         Month-end restructure changes code to F. These codes indicate an E203 is required to confirm the
         accession.
         39.3.2.2. An E203 transaction must be submitted by the MPF within 2 workdays after in-process-
         ing at the permanent duty station (PDS). This transaction provides data to complete the MMPA,
         removes member from PCS status, and sets the match flag to blank. It also overrides any data
         already in the MMPA.
      39.3.3. Officers. Except as noted below and in paragraph 39.3.1., the member's MPF at the first PDS
      processes an E203 immediately after member's arrival. AFPC confirms these accessions with ML03
      transactions.
         39.3.3.1. Officers Performing TDY. Officers ordered to TDY stations for orientation or training
         before arrival at their first PDS are accessed by AFPC with an EA transaction. The FSO at the
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            661


      TDY base must determine whether member is to receive full or partial-pay service and coordinate
      this with the MPF.
          39.3.3.1.1. Limited Pay Service. Members who will be at their TDY base for a short time are
          accessed to DJMS with 3333 as SVC-ADSN in the EA transaction. This causes the computer
          to access member in a PCS status with servicing and paying ADSN of 9999 and a movement
          reason code of I. Payment transactions, FITW changes, and changes to central payments can
          be processed for these members at the TDY base.
          39.3.3.1.2. Full-Pay Service. Members who are to receive full-pay service from the FSO at
          the TDY base are accessed with a servicing and paying ADSN of 9999 and an LD04 must be
          input by the TDY FSO. Member is put on-station at the first permanent duty station by the E2
          accession transaction submitted by the MPF immediately after member's arrival.
      39.3.3.2. Section Officers are Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard members ordered to
      extended active duty under provisions of 10 U.S.C. 265, 8033, and 8496, or 32 U.S.C. 708. MPFs
      access these members with an E203 transaction. Refer to subparagraph 39.2.4. for correct service
      component code.
      39.3.3.3. Non-Prior Service OTS Students are accessed with E101 and E103 transactions. The
      Maxwell MPF submits an E6 transaction upon graduation to update the record from enlisted to
      officer and puts the member in a PCS status (H) with servicing ADSN of 9999.
   39.3.4. Reserve and Guard Members Ordered to Active Duty are accessed with an E203 transaction
   submitted by the MPF at their first duty station. These accounts are established with an AFPC match
   flag of 1; restructure changes this to A. AFPC confirms these accessions with an MM03 confirmation
   transaction. This transaction deletes the match flag. Refer to subparagraph 39.2.4. for correct service
   component code.
   39.3.5. Accession Correct Transactions. Accession correct transactions are input in the same format
   as report transactions and contain all data for a report transaction. They are processed as follows:
      39.3.5.1. E505 transactions correct EAD date, pay date, grade and the over 4 years active enlisted
      and/or warrant officer code. The transaction will process as long as the AFPC match flag code is
      6 or F, the TZ05 (officer service dates) transaction has not processed or two EA05 transactions
      have not already processed. If member does not have an MMPA, the transaction processes as an
      03 transaction and creates an MMPA.
      39.3.5.2. E205 transactions are input by the MPF at member's first permanent duty station to cor-
      rect any data item that can be input in an accession transaction. If member does not have an
      MMPA or if the AFPC match flag code is 6 or F, the transaction processes as an 03 transaction to
      fully access member. (See paragraph 39.5.) The 05 transaction will process unless it has been
      more than 120 days since the E203 processed, two E205 transactions have already processed or,
      for officers, the TZ05 (officer service dates) transaction has not processed.

39.4. Effect on MMPA. The first accession transaction (EA or E2) opens an MMPA to allow JUMPS
transactions to process. As a minimum, it establishes the following:
   39.4.1. Entitlements:
      39.4.1.1. Basic pay (FID 01)
662                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         39.4.1.2. BAS for officers (FID 40)
         39.4.1.3. Personal money allowance for grades 09 and 10 (FID 41)
      39.4.2. Deductions:
         39.4.2.1. Federal income tax withholding (FITW) based on 1 exemption and single (FID FJ)
         39.4.2.2. Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA) (FID FC)
         39.4.2.3. State income tax withholding (SITW) (for basic trainees only). For all others
         TXNG-AUTH-CITY/STATE is established as 098.
         39.4.2.4. Servicemen's Group Life Insurance (SGLI) (FID DB) for $100,000 (only with E2 pro-
         cessing). If member elects to decline, reduce, or increase life insurance coverage, prepare input
         per Chapter 63.
      39.4.3. Other. An HO entry will be created to contain the member’s net pay until such time he/she is
      no longer considered a trainee. The HO entry is adjusted by payments and other increases or
      decreases (entitlements, collections, etc.) to the MMPA. (NOTE: the HO entry replaces the PO
      entry.)

39.5. MMPA Entries That Identify the Accession Process. Three entries signify accession transac-
tions processing.
      39.5.1. FID MK History Entry (Control Dates). The first accession transaction establishes this entry
      which is updated by any subsequent accession action. It is a complete history showing the updates in
      which accession actions were processed. The formats for these entries are dependent on whether
      member is a basic trainee or a non-basic trainee. (See Figure 39.1. and Figure 39.2. for format and
      explanation of data items.)
      39.5.2. FID MJ Entry (AFPC Match Flag). This entry contains codes that tell the DFAS-DE com-
      puter to look for certain transactions. Four of these codes relate to the accession process and are
      explained below. A blank indicates that member is fully accessed.
         39.5.2.1. Code 7 or Z a basic trainee has not had an E103 transaction processed. When either of
         these codes are present, the SG03 transaction to remove member from basic trainee status recy-
         cles. Code Z indicates an E103 is required, E101 accession was not confirmed by AFPC. Code 7
         indicates E101 was received but an E103 is required.
         39.5.2.2. Code 6 or F member was accessed by an EA03 transaction but an E203 transaction is
         required. These codes are usually associated with PCS status. (See paragraph 39.3.3.) When
         these match flags are present, member was brought on station by the E203 transaction and no
         SG03 transaction should be processed. Code 6 is put on the record by accession processing. After
         the first restructure, the code changes to F.
      39.5.3. SH (PCS) Entry. When members are accessed by an EA transaction and put in a PCS (SH)
      status, movement reason code I is used. SG03 transactions will not process against these accounts.
      The E203 transaction puts member in a SA status and the SH entry closes. No SG appears on the
      MMPA when the accession transaction processes.

39.6. DFAS-DE Actions Related to Accession Processing:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          663


   39.6.1. Grade Differences. If the E203 processes containing a grade that is different from the grade
   on the MMPA, an MD05 transaction to correct the grade is created. The MD05 recycles to process in
   the next update. If for some reason it cannot process, it is rejected to DFAS-DE/FJ for action. It is
   possible for the accession transaction to process and grade not to be updated immediately.
   39.6.2. EAD Date. If the EAD in the E203 transaction processes and is different from what is on the
   MMPA, the new EAD date is entered on the MMPA. All dates based on EAD date are updated other
   than those affecting entitlements and deductions which are handled manually by DFAS-DE/FJ.

Figure 39.1. MK MMPA Format-Basic Trainee.


MMPA        DATA NAME                                  EXPLANATION


   1.    MK-CON-DATES          Entry name.


   2.    ENTRY-OP-DT           Update in which E103 transaction processed. Blank if 03 has not
                               been processed.


   3.    ENTRY-CLSD-DT         Update in which E103 transaction processed. Blank if 03 has not
                               been processed.


   4.    ACTN                  Will always be 01.


   5.    ENTRY-CLSD-DT         Update in which E101 transaction processed. Blank if 01
                               transaction was not processed.
664                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.2. MK MMPA Format-Non-Basic Trainee.


MMPA         DATA NAME                            EXPLANATION


      1.   MK-CON-DATES    Entry name.


      2.   ENTRY-OP-DT     Update in which E203 transaction processed. Blank if E2 has not
                           been processed.


      3.   ENTRY-CLSD-DT   Update in which E203 transaction processed. Blank if E2 has not
                           been processed.


      4.   ACESN-PROCSD    Processing date of the update in which the E203 transaction
           DATE            processed. Blank if E2 has not processed. This date is used to
                           determine if more than 120 days has elapsed since processing of
                           the E2 transaction.


      5.   ENTRY-CLSD-DT   Update in which the 1st E205 transaction processed. Blank if no
                           05 transaction processed.


      6.   ENTRY-CLSD-DT   Same as 5 except for 2d E205 transaction.


      7.   FORMAT-ID       Will always be EA.


      8.   ENTRY-CLSD-DT   Update in which the EA03 transaction processed. Blank if no EA
                           has processed.


      9.   ENTRY-CLSD-DT   Update in which the 1st EA05 transaction processed. Blank if no
                           05 has processed.


  10.      ENTRY-CLSD-DT   Same as 9 except for 2d EA05 transaction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                  665


Figure 39.3. Format for Initial BMT/OTS Accession.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0E101


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-41      LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MIDDLE INITIAL


     42-47      YYMMDD OF ENTRY ON ACTIVE DUTY


       48       MEMBER’S SEX CODE:
                M—MALE
                F—FEMALE


     49-50      MEMBER’S CURRENT GRADE


       51       WILL BE O (OTS ONLY) OR BLANK


       52       BRANCH OF SERVICE CODE:
                A—ARMY
                F--AIR FORCE
666                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.4. Format for BMT/OTS Accession.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      AE103 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF ENLISTMENT


      26-31     YYMMDD OF SEPARATION AS COMPUTED AT TIME OF ENTRY


      32-58     MEMBER’S LAST NAME (SPACE), FIRST NAME (SPACE), MI (SPACE) AND
                SUFFIX, IF APPLICABLE


       59       SERVICE COMPONENT CODE:
                C—CADET
                G--NATIONAL GUARD
                R—REGULAR
                T—TEMPORARY
                V—RESERVE

      60-61     CURRENT GRADE: 31 THROUGH 34


       62       MEMBER’S SEX CODE
                M—MALE
                F—FEMALE


       63       FITW DEDUCTION ELECTION:
                M—MARRIED
                S—SINGLE


      64-65     NUMBER OF EXEMPTIONS CLAIMED ON TD FORM W-4
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 667


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     66      GOVERNMENT QUARTERS ADEQUACY:
             3—IF MEMBER IS SINGLE AND OCCUPYING GOVERNMENT QUARTERS
             OR BLANK


     67      OFFICER CLASS ID: O FOR OTS OR BLANK


     1-5     1E103 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-22    TAXING AUTHORITY--CITY/STATE:
             APPROPRIATE CODE FOR MEMBER’S RESIDENCE (SEE Attachment 15)




    23-24    RESIDENT COUNTRY CODE: SEE Attachment 16 IF MEMBER IS LOCATED
             OUTSIDE CONUS; OTHERWISE, BLANK


    25-26    MPF NUMBER:
             ZB OR OTHER ATC CODE FOR AIR FORCE BASIC TRAINEES
             ZZ FOR ARMY BMTS


    27-28    MAJOR COMMAND ID:
             OJ FOR AIR FORCE BASIC TRAINEES
668                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                               DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


              OZ FOR ARMY BASIC TRAINEES


      29-34   YYMMDD OF PAY DATE IF DIFFERENT FROM DOE-DATE; ZEROS IF
              SAME AS DOE-DATE


      35-40   YYMMDD OF TAFMSD IF DIFFERENT FROM DOE-DATE; ZEROS IF SAME
              AS DOE-DATE


      41-49   CORRECT SSAN IF SSAN INPUT IN E101 TRANSACTION WAS INCORRECT


       50     BRANCH OF SERVICE CODE:
              A—ARMY
              F--AIR FORCE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  669


Figure 39.5. Format for Service Academy Accession.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       AE203/05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF ENTRY ON ACTIVE DUTY OR ENLISTMENT DATE;
                ACTUAL DATE ENROLLED IN THE ACADEMY FOR CADETS


     26-31      YYMMDD OF SEPARATION AS COMPUTED AT TIME OF ENTRY; CAN BE
                888888 FOR OFFICERS; PROJECTED DATE OF GRADUATION FOR CADETS


     32-58      MEMBER’S LAST NAME (SPACE), FIRST NAME (SPACE) AND MI (SPACE)
                SUFFIX, IF APPLICABLE


       59       ENTRY SERVICE COMPONENT:
                G--NATIONAL GUARD
                R—REGULAR
                T—TEMPORARY
                V—RESERVE
                C—CADET


     60-61      CURRENT GRADE:
                APPROPRIATE CODE--31-39; 21-24; 01-10; 51-54 (CADETS)


       62       SEX CODE:
                M—MALE
                F—FEMALE


       63       BRANCH OF SERVICE: F FOR AIR FORCE
670                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       66     ACCESSION EXCEPTION CODE: 9--IF MEMBER WILL BE AT THE INPUT
              BASE FOR A SHORT PERIOD ONLY AND NORMAL PAY SERVICE CANNOT
              BE RENDERED OR BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


       67     RESERVE AD REASON: 3--IF ACCESSED MEMBER IS AFR OR ANG
              PERSONNEL ON ACTIVE DUTY OR BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


       1-5    1E203/05 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23   FOR CADETS:
               CP20-21=SQUADRON ID
               CP22-23=CLASS YEAR
               BLANK FOR ALL OTHERS




      25-26   MPF NUMBER:
              FOR AIR FORCE: CODE OF MEMBER’S MPF
              FOR ARMY: ZZ
              FOR CADETS: ZE


      27-28   MAJOR COMMAND ID:
              FOR AIR FORCE: CODE OF MEMBER’S MAJOR COMMAND
              FOR ARMY: OZ
              FOR CADETS: OB


      29-32   SERVICING ADSN:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              671


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             FOR AIR FORCE: ADSN OF SERVICING FSO
             FOR ARMY: ADSN OF ARMY INPUT SOURCE
             FOR CADETS: ALWAYS 8890


    33-38    YYMMDD OF PAY DATE


    39-44    YYMMDD OF TAFMSD


    45-50    YYMMDD OF SEPARATION FROM LAST ACTIVE DUTY IN ENLISTED
             STATUS; ZEROS IF CADET OR NOT APPLICABLE


     51      OFFICER CLASS ID:
             W--IDENTIFIES WARRANT OFFICERS TRANSFERRING FROM ANOTHER
             MILITARY DEPARTMENT
             BLANK FOR ALL OTHERS


     56      PRIOR SERVICE MILITARY DEPARTMENT CODE:
             A--AIR FORCE
             B—ARMY
             C—NAVY
             D—MARINES
             G--COAST GUARD
             OTHERWISE, BLANK (ALWAYS BLANK FOR CADETS)


     57      APPROPRIATE CODE:
             1--ENLISTED MEMBER DOES NOT HAVE A RES COMMISSION OR
             WARRANT; CODE IS ALSO FOR OFFICER ACCESSIONS
             2--ENLISTED MEMBER HAS RES COMMISSION OR WARRANT; ALWAYS
             “1” FOR CADETS


     58      PRIOR SERVICE BENEFIT WAIVER CODE:
             A--ACTIVE DUTY PAY WAIVER
             R--RETIRED PAY WAIVER
             V--VA BENEFITS WAIVER
672                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


              N--NO BENEFITS WAIVER
              ALWAYS N FOR CADETS




       59     OVER-FOUR ACTIVE-ENLISTED CODE:
              Y--OFFICER (GRADES 01, 02 OR 03 ONLY) HAS OVER 4 YEARS OF ACTIVE
              SERVICE AS AN ENLISTED MEMBER
              N--OFFICER (GRADES 01, 02 OR 03 ONLY) DOES NOT HAVE OVER 4
              YEARS ENLISTED SERVICE. FOR ALL OTHER GRADES BLANK (ALWAYS
              BLANK FOR CADETS)


      60-65   YYMMDD OF SEPARATION FROM LAST ACTIVE DUTY IN OFFICER
              STATUS:
              ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE; ALWAYS ZEROS FOR CADETS


      66-67   DUTY-COUNTRY OR DUTY-NON-CONUS-STATE:
              IF CONUS--US; OTHERWISE APPLICABLE COUNTRY CODE FROM
              Attachment 16;
              FOR FOREIGN ACADEMY CADETS--COUNTRY CODE FROM Attachment
              16; US FOR OTHER CADETS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  673


Figure 39.6. Format for Enlisted Accession.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0EA03


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-41       FULL NAME (LAST, FIRST, MI)


     42-47       DATE OF ENLISTMENT


     48-49       CURRENT MILITARY GRADE


       50        SEX (M OR F)


       51        PRIOR MILITARY SERVICE DEPARTMENT INDICATOR


     52-55       CURRENT MPF AND MAJOR COMMAND INDICATOR


     56-57       PROJECTED MPF IDENTIFIER IF MEMBER IS SENT FOR TRAINING;
                 BLANK FOR ALL OTHERS


     58-63       PAY-DATE

       64        AIR FORCE INDICATOR


     65-67       JULIAN DATE


     68-71       AFPC ID (8888)


     72-80       BLANK
674                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.7. Format for Officer Accession.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0EA03


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-41      FULL NAME (LAST, FIRST, MI)


      42-47      DATE OF ENTRY ON ACTIVE DUTY


      48-49      CURRENT MILITARY GRADE


      50-55      PAY-DATE


      56-59      SVC-FSO


      60-61      PROJECTED MPF AND MAJOR COMMAND


      62-63      MEMBER’S FORECASTED MAJOR AIR COMMAND


       64        SERVICE COMPONENT CODE:
                 G--NATIONAL GUARD
                 R—REGULAR
                 V—RESERVE
                 T—TEMPORARY
                 C—CADET


       65        FOR GRADE 01, 02 OR 03, Y IF MEMBER HAS OVER 4 YEARS PRIOR
                 ENLISTED SERVICE OR N IF NO PRIOR ENLISTED SERVICE. BLANK FOR
                 ALL OTHER GRADES


       66        AIR FORCE INDICATOR (F)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                  675


CHARACTER                     DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    67    BLANK


    68-71    AFPC ID (8888)


    72-80    BLANK
676                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.8. Format to Correct Member's SSN.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0MA05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      32-40     MEMBER’S NEW SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                               677


Figure 39.9. Format to Change Member's Name.


 CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5      0MC04


     6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     32-58     MEMBER’S NEW NAME
678                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.10. Format to Correct Member's Sex Code.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0ME05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       32       SEX-SERVICE-MEMBER:
                F—FEMALE
                M—MALE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                            679


Figure 39.11. Format to Start/Correct Resident Country of Resident Non-CONUS State.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0MH01/05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     23-24      APPLICABLE COUNTRY CODE. SEE Attachment 16


      OR


     23-24      RESIDENT NON-CONUS STATE CODE:
                02—ALASKA
                15—HAWAII
                BLANK IF MEMBER’S RESIDENCE IS CONUS
680                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.12. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Last Active Duty Officer Status.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0TD05


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       55        PRIOR-SERVICE-MILITARY-DEPARTMENT CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B—ARMY
                 C—NAVY
                 D—MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


      59-64      DOS-LAST-ACTIVE-DUTY-OFFICER-STATUS: YYMMDD OF DOS OF LAST
                 ACTIVE DUTY, OFFICER STATUS; ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE


                 NOTE: IF PRIOR-SVC-MIL-DEP IS BLANK AND DOS-LAST-AD-OFF-STATS
                 IS ZERO-FILLED, THE MEMBER'S TD MPA ENTRY IS REMOVED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                   681


Figure 39.13. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Previous Enlistment.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0TE05


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     32-37       DOS PREVIOUS ENLISTMENT OR ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE


       55        PRIOR-SERVICE-MILITARY-DEPARTMENT CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B—ARMY
                 C—NAVY
                 D—MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


                 NOTE: IF DOS-PREV-ENLIMT IS ZERO-FILLED AND PRIOR-SVC-MIL-DEP
                 IS BLANK, THE MEMBER'S TE MMPA ENTRY IS REMOVED (CANCELED).
682                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.14. Format to Change/Correct Dual Status.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0TF04/05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE DATE: YYMMDD OF CHANGE FOR ACTION INDICATOR 04;
                BLANK FOR ACTION INDICATOR 05


       32       ENLISTED-WITH-OFFICER-STATUS-INDICATOR CODE:
                1—NO
                2—YES
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        683


Figure 39.15. Format to Change or Correct Airman Pay Date, EAD Date and TAFMSD.


 CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5      0TI05


     6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25     ETS-DATE: CORRECT YYMMDD


     26-31     DOS-DATE: CORRECT YYMMDD


     32-37     PAY-DATE: CORRECT YYMMDD


     38-43     DOE-DATE: CORRECT YYMMDD


     44-49     TAFMSD: CORRECT YYMMDD


     50-55     DATE START BAD TIME STATUS BEING CONFIRMED OR CORRECTED


     56-61     EFFECTIVE DATE OF CORRECTION OR DATE BAD TIE PERIOD STARTED


     62-65     NUMBER OF DAYS OF BAD TIME; BLANK IF BAD TIME IS NOT
               INVOLVED


      66       PAY-DATE-CHANGE-REASON CODE:
               A--AFPC CORRECTION
               B--MPF CORRECTION
               C—AWOL
               D--MILITARY CONFINEMENT
               E--CIVIL CONFINEMENT
               F—DESERTER
               G--OTHER (LINE OF DUTY, ETC.)
684                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
                 H--LOST TIME AFTER DOS
                 I—HQ AFPC ADJUSTED TAFMSD FOR VSI/SSB


Figure 39.16. Format to Correct Prior Service Benefit Waiver.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0TM05


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       57        PRIOR-SERVICE-BENEFIT-WAIVER CODE:
                 A--ACTIVE DUTY PAY WAIVER
                 N--NO BENEFITS WAIVER
                 R--RETIRED PAY BENEFITS WAIVER
                 V--VA BENEFITS WAIVER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                 685


Figure 39.17. Format to Correct Service Component.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0TP05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       32       SERVICE-COMPONENT CODE:
                G--NATIONAL GUARD
                R--REGULAR AIR FORCE
                T—TEMPORARY
                V—RESERVE
686                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 39.18. Format to Change/Cancel Airman's DOS, DOS Extension Reason, Extension Num-
ber or ETS.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0TU04/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      50-55     NEW DOS


       56       DOS-EXTENSION-REASON CODE:
                1—VOLUNTARY
                2—INVOLUNTARY
                7--MEDICAL HOLD


       57       EXTENSION-NUMBER: 1 OR BLANK


      58-63     ETS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       687


Figure 39.19. Format to Change or Correct Officer Service Dates.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0TZ05


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     32-37       PAY DATE


     38-43       EAD-DATE


     44-49       TAFMSD


     50-55       CORRECTED DOS OR NEW DOS


       56        MEDICAL/DENTAL OFFICER CODE:
                 D—DENTAL
                 M—MEDICAL
                 BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


       63        OVER-FOUR-ACTIVE-ENLISTED-SERVICE:
                 Y--OFFICER (GRADES 01, 02 OR 03) HAS MORE THAN 4 YEARS ACTIVE
                 SERVICE AS AN ENLISTED MEMBER
                 N--OFFICER (GRADES 01, 02 OR 03) DOES NOT HAVE MORE THAN 4
                 YEARS SERVICE AS AN ENLISTED MEMBER
                 BLANK FOR ALL OTHER GRADES


       64        PAY-DATE-VERIFY-INDICATOR:
                 1--ACCESSION; PAYDATE HAS NOT BEEN VERIFIED
                 2--ACCESSION; PAYDATE HAS BEEN VERIFIED
                 3--PARTIDIPATING UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVERSITY HEALTH
                 SCIENCES (USUHS) MEMBER; DOES NOT RECEIVE LOGEVITY (FOGEY)
                 INCREASE
688                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
              4--DISENROLLED USUHS STUDENT
              5--USUHS GRADUATE
              9--UNKNOWN/DELETED


      65-67   JULIAN DATE


      68-71   8888
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            689


                                              Chapter 40

                          BASIC TRAINEES AND PIPELINE STUDENTS

40.1. Basic Military Trainees (BMT). Normally, when members are accessed into the Air Force, other
than OTS graduates, direct accessions, etc., they are processed through Lackland AFB as BMT. BMTs
are paid through a separate system called Trainee Military Pay System (TMPS). Procedures for paying
BMTs are contained in DFAS-DEM
7073-3

40.2. Pipeline Students. After basic training, but before reaching the first PDS, a member is required to
complete specialized training, often for extensive periods of time. While in this training status, members
are said to be in the pipeline. Pipeline students are paid through DJMS and, where applicable, specific
procedures are contained in this volume.
690                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 40.1. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Basic Trainee Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0PG03/06 OR APG05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD) OR


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26        GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B—ARMY
                 C—NAVY
                 D—MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 M--STATE DEPARTMENT


      27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                 FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31        OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

      32-39      VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-48      AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


      49-51      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                 510—OFFICER
                 530—ENLISTED


       65        RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              691


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    67    CHECK DIGIT (COMPUTER GENERATED)


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
692                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 41

                              PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION (PCS)

41.1. Description. The definition of terms in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, defines permanent change of
station as the assignment, detail, or transfer of a member or unit to a different duty station under compe-
tent orders which neither specify the duty as temporary, nor provide for further assignment to a new sta-
tion, nor direct return to the old station. For a more detailed definition, see JFTR, Volume I, appendix J.

41.2. Substantiating Documents. Obtain PCS data from these official documents:
      41.2.1. PCS orders.
         41.2.1.1. PCS Orders. The PCS of a member from one location to another is supported by official
         orders. Use these orders with interview of member to determine projected departure date, gaining
         ADSN, projected arrival date, and movement reason code. Annotate orders with PROJ-DDLDS
         and gaining ADSN from the *PAS Code Directory. In addition, copy of PCS orders will be anno-
         tated with departure date and new servicing FSO. This copy will be forwarded to the travel sec-
         tion to be used as a source document to update the automated travel record and accounting system
         (ATRAS).
      41.2.2. Diversion (amended PCS) orders.
         41.2.2.1. Diversion Orders. Orders directing diversion en route may be issued after a member
         begins travel and before the date member reports to the base designated in the original PCS order.
         Submit an SH04 transaction containing the changed data to DFAS-DE as appropriate.
      41.2.3. Travel voucher.
         41.2.3.1. Travel Voucher and Attachment. Member must file a travel voucher with the local FSO
         within 5 days after completion of PCS travel whether or not cost to government is involved. This
         includes member's temporary duty pending further orders (TDPFO). See DFAS-DER 7010-3 for
         instructions on preparing travel voucher. Use data in member's itinerary to support PCS arrival
         transaction. Actual travel time computed must be shown on member's travel voucher. When
         travel voucher cannot be paid immediately (for example, when orders require amendment), use
         one copy of travel voucher itinerary as a substantiating document. Verification of departure and
         arrival dates may be made by audit of endorsed travel voucher and AF Form 2095, Assignment/
         Personnel Action. Verify this data periodically to ensure accuracy of dates on travel voucher.
         Bring discrepancies found to the attention of member's commander for correction. Detailed pro-
         cessing procedures for leave and document control are in Chapter 44. When basic allowance for
         subsistence (BAS) is to be started by PCS arrival transaction, substantiate BAS with notation on
         travel voucher or attached military pay order (MPO). See Chapter 25 for BAS policy and source
         document requirements.
      41.2.4. Message (confirmed with PCS orders or travel voucher, as appropriate).
      41.2.5. Hospital admission and disposition (A&D) list. Use A&D list as document to support PCS
      arrival input transactions for members arriving at a service hospital in a patient status. A&D list is
      prepared daily by the hospital. This is a record of each person admitted to or released from the hospi-
      tal. Two copies of A&D list are processed as an MPO to inform FSO of PCS arrival.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            693


   41.2.6. Substantiating Documents. New servicing FSO submits a copy of member's travel voucher to
   DFAS-DE to substantiate PCS arrival transaction. A copy of A&D list is used as the substantiating
   document for members who arrive at a service hospital in a patient status.

41.3. Source of Input. The concept of one-stop processing of members arriving and departing on PCS,
established by AFI 36-2906, is continued under DJMS. To accomplish this, an FSO representative is
included in the MPF processing line. Under this principle, the FSO representative must see that an MPO
is completed to start or stop any item affected by PCS that is not handled automatically. The FSO repre-
sentative should also inform members that changes of address for bond allotments are the member's
responsibility. Members are required to complete AF Form 1745 to change address prior to PCS depar-
ture and then address changes are input by the FSO, not DFAS-DE.
   41.3.1. PCS Departure and PCS Diversion En Route. FSO servicing losing station submits these
   transactions and any other necessary corrections to original departure input.
   41.3.2. PCS Arrival. FSO servicing gaining station submits these transactions.

41.4. FSO Actions Upon PCS Arrival. On arrival at:
   41.4.1. New Duty Station. Submit arrival transaction to DFAS-DE within first 5 duty days after
   receipt of member's travel voucher within the FSO.
   41.4.2. Home Awaiting Final Action of Physical Evaluation Board. Submit arrival transaction to
   DFAS-DE immediately after receipt of member's travel voucher. If for some reason (member physi-
   cally or mentally incompetent) the travel voucher is not received within 10 days of departure, use the
   member's PCS orders and compute constructive travel days to submit the arrival transaction. A cor-
   rection (SG05) may be required if travel voucher is received at a later date.
   41.4.3. Hospital. See paragraph 41.2.5. and 41.4.1. Hospital registrar furnishes this data to FSO
   using admissions and disposition (A&D) list as the basic source document when possible.
   41.4.4. Temporary Duty Pending Further Orders (TDPFO). If members last TDY location, becomes
   the new PCS ADSN, then new FSO submits PCS arrival transaction.
   41.4.5. Academy Graduates. PCS arrival transactions for academy graduates contain the date the
   member entered active duty in the DDLDS field of the SG.
   41.4.6. Correction of PCS After Arrival. Use an SG05 transaction to correct any data item in the SG
   including departure data as long as the PCS entries are in the MMPA. Use DD Form 139, Pay Adjust-
   ment Authorization, after the entries have dropped from history. The SG05 transaction rejects TCB
   after the PCS entries have been dropped.
   41.4.7. Reduction in CONUS COLA Entitlement For Travel Days. CONUS COLA is not payable for
   the number of travel days allowed under JFTR, Volume I, paragraph U5160, for direct travel between
   the member's old and new PDS incident to a PCS. (See JFTR, Volume I, paragraph 8002.) The travel
   section is required to reflect all travel days (both TDY and Direct) for all travel vouchers processed.
   When processing SG transactions for PCS arrivals that involve TDY en route or travel to or from
   overseas via APOE or APOD, enter only the direct travel days in the DAYS-TVL-TIME-ENTLMNT
   field of the SG transaction (Figure 41.5.). The difference between the direct travel days and the total
   travel days will be reflected in the DAYS-TDY field in order to balance the SG transaction. This is an
   administrative procedure only. Payment of per diem for these days is not authorized.
694                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      41.4.8. PCS Arrival Suspense. Paragraph 41.5.1.13. describes the PCS arrival suspense. The primary
      reason for this suspense is to be sure that leave taken as a result of PCS is posted.
         41.4.8.1. A UH management notice is sent to the FSO on the 15th calendar day after processing a
         PCS arrival transaction if the period between PCS departure and arrival is greater than days
         accounted for from entries in the MMPA. If days accounted for from MMPA entries is greater
         than period between PCS departure and arrival, the UH is sent on processing of the PCS arrival
         transaction. The management notice gives you by entry the number of days for which the com-
         puter can account.
         41.4.8.2. After receipt of a UH management notice, 30 days are allowed for processing transac-
         tions necessary to account for the period of PCS before a reject occurs.
         41.4.8.3. The formula used to account for the PCS period is: DAYS-PCS (DATE-ARR-STA
         minus DDLDS) must equal DAYS-PCS-ACTD-FOR (DAYS-TVL-TIME-ENTLMNT plus
         TDY-DAYS plus PROCD-DAYS-GRNTD (from SG entry) plus LV-DAYS-COUNT (from SB
         entries falling within the PCS period) plus DAYS-OTHER-STATUS (number of days from SJ,
         SK, and SP entries that fall within the PCS period)).
         41.4.8.4. If for some reason our formula does not account for the PCS period and all MMPA
         entries are correct, notify DFAS-DE/FJP of the circumstances and ask that they clear the suspense.
         Example: Member is hospitalized during PCS and remains in the hospital after arrival, or any of
         the days are out of immediate access storage (IAS).
         41.4.8.5. In some cases, there may be two or more PCS entries with uncleared suspenses in the
         MMPA at one time. While each base is responsible for its own input, the base where member is
         located is ultimately responsible for clearing all SG suspenses.
      41.4.9. Member Arriving from OTS. When member departs OTS, Maxwell AFB submits the PCS
      departure transaction. The gaining base processes the PCS arrival transaction, covering only the
      period of time since the member departed Maxwell AFB, for all members arriving from OTS.
      41.4.10. Recertification. Ensure members receiving with dependent rate housing allowances com-
      plete AF Form 594 at PCS arrival.

41.5. Effect of PCS Arrival on MMPA. On receipt of an SG03 arrival transaction:
      41.5.1. If PCS departure transaction has been processed, DFAS-DE:
         41.5.1.1. Generates a PCS departure correct transaction to make the SH entry agree with the
         arrival input based on date and quarter day departed and movement reason code in the arrival
         transaction. When this occurs, information code TCU is assigned processed transaction and SH or
         N0 entry is included in DTR extract. NOTE: TCU also appears with rejected transactions. No
         error code is generated if the servicing ADSN does not change. It is only an information code and
         has nothing to do with the reject. Based on TCU, recheck your SG transaction to be sure it is cor-
         rect.
         41.5.1.2. Starts foreign duty pay, effective day of arrival, for enlisted members reporting for duty
         in an overseas area designated for foreign duty pay. Restarts overseas extension pay for overseas
         to overseas PCS, if stopped by departure transaction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          695


     41.5.1.3. Pays FSA-II(PCS) for travel time listed in PCS arrival transaction if FSA II stopped by
     PCS departure processing.
     41.5.1.4. If movement reason code is “C”, stops all open items of pay except basic pay, BAS
     (officers), BAQ with dependents, BAQ without dependents for grades E4 over 4 and above, and
     medical, dental, or veterinary pay effective day before member arrives at home on PCS awaiting
     final action of physical evaluation board proceedings (APEBP).
     41.5.1.5. Starts BAS for a member arriving home in APEBP status, type H for enlisted personnel,
     starts BAQ (own right), if applicable, and starts APEBP leave (type K).
     41.5.1.6. Stops BAQ without dependents for E4 (with more than 4 years' service) and for grades
     E5 and E6 on the day before the day arrived on station. If member is an E6 or above and drawing
     BAQ without, BAQ will continue.
     41.5.1.7. Stops IVHA on day before day of arrival. Starts when accompanied status and zip code
     are included in the transaction.
     41.5.1.8. If rental fair value is being deducted on arrival, issues an X303 management notice to
     the servicing and losing ADSNs.
     41.5.1.9. Starts BAS for member when subsistence allowance type is present in PCS arrival trans-
     action. See Chapter 25 and DFAS-DEM 7073-2 for BAS guidelines. If BAS is already paying,
     arrival transaction is partially rejected. PCS portion of transaction is processed and BAS portion
     rejected with error code TCF. (MEMBER HAS OPEN BAS ENTRY, PCS PORTION OF
     TRANSACTION PROCESSED. SUBMIT INPUT TO ADJUST BAS.) In these cases, FSO
     must determine member's entitlement to BAS during PCS period and submit appropriate BAS
     transactions to adjust BAS for PCS period and start it for arrival at this station. If member is
     enlisted and no code is submitted in the subsistence allowance type field, partial BAS will progra-
     matically start.
     41.5.1.10. Starts partial BAQ when character position 64, of the SG03 transaction, has code 6 or
     7 included in the transaction (see Figure 41.5.). If BAQ or BAQ-DIFF entry is open and partial
     rate BAQ is started, the SG entry will partially reject with the error message ‘TDY’. MBR has
     BAQ entry. Only PCS portion of trans processed. Add BAQ if necessary. If the code is other than
     6 or 7 or space, the transaction partially rejects with error code XCR (CODE IN CC 64 NOT 6 OR
     7 OR SPACE CHANGED TO SPACE, START PARTIAL BAQ WITH 3501 TRANSACTION IF
     NECESSARY). If the member is receiving BAQ-DIFF, but not without dependent rate BAQ, par-
     tial BAQ is not started with a 6 or 7; the assignment code in the FID 36 is changed to 1 (assigned)
     from 2 (not assigned). Partial rate BAQ will not be started during this process.
     41.5.1.11. Change with-dependent rate BAQ from unassigned to assigned single government
     quarters, changes the BAQ assignment to 1 and the adequacy to 4 - character position 64 = 4.
     41.5.1.12. Start without dependent rate BAQ for closest dependent code R (no dependents) - char-
     acter position 64 = 8.
     41.5.1.13. Start without dependent rate BAQ for closest dependent type I (member married to
     member, no dependents) - character position 64 = 9.
     41.5.1.14. Stops BAS Type C (travel) if started by departure processing.
696                                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      41.5.1.15. Updates servicing and paying accounting and disbursing station numbers (ADSNs), as
      applicable, with gaining ADSN taken from input source of the arrival transaction.
      41.5.1.16. Checks the number of days PCS against the days PCS accounted for. (See paragraph
      41.4.8. for formula.) If the DAYS-PCS-ACTD-FOR are:
         4 1 . 5 . 1 . 1 6 . 1 . E q u a l t o D AY S - P C S , e s t a b l i s h e s t h e S G e n t r y w i t h a
         DAYS-PCS-ACTD-FOR-INDCTR of 2.
         41.5.1.16.2. Less than DAYS-PCS:
             41.5.1.16.2.1. Establishes an SG suspense entry with an effective date of processing date
             plus 14 days and establishes the SG entry with DAYS-PCS-ACTD-FOR-INDCTR of 1.
             41.5.1.16.2.2. When the SG suspense comes due, the DAYS-PCS are compared to
             DAYS-PCS-ACTD-FOR. If the DAYS-PCS-ACTD-FOR are:
                 41.5.1.16.2.2.1. Equal to DAYS-PCS, changes DAYS-PCS-ACTD-FOR-INDCTR
                 from 1 to 2 and deletes the suspense entry.
                 41.5.1.16.2.2.2. Unequal, adds 30 days to suspense and sends a UH management
                 notice to the FSO.
             41.5.1.16.2.3. Takes the same actions as in 41.5.1.16.2.2. above except if the days are not
             equal, when the 30 days' suspense comes due, sends a reject of the SG suspense transaction
             to the FSO with error code TEI (PERIOD OF PCS NOT ACCOUNTED FOR. SUBMIT
             INPUT OR NOTIFY FJPA AT ONCE). Also, the transaction is rejected to DFAS-DE/FJP.
             These actions continue every 30 days until the suspense is cleared.
         41.5.1.16.3. Greater than DAYS-PCS:
             41.5.1.16.3.1. Sends UH03 management notice to FSO and establishes an SG suspense of
             processing date plus 30 days.
             41.5.1.16.3.2. When suspense comes due, takes action as described in 41.5.1.16.2.3.
             above.
      41.5.1.17. Forwards pay authorization to gaining ADSN, if member is paid locally.
      41.5.1.18. Sends gaining FSO all LES data that has accumulated since member departed old duty
      station and an image of all transactions processed against member's account since he or she
      departed. Based on this data, FSO reviews member's account to ensure that all appropriate PCS
      pay actions have been taken. Review PCS package if member has one.
      41.5.1.19. Generates XA03 management notice to notify MPF of member's PCS arrival. The
      dates in the XA notice are matched against dates in the personnel file and a report on individual
      person (RIP) is produced if dates do not match. These RIPs are sent to Military Pay if the MPF
      finds that their dates were input correctly. The military pay area must determine the cause of the
      discrepancy and take corrective action if necessary. These discrepancies must be brought to the
      attention of the member's commander, except when the discrepancy occurred as a result of admin-
      istrative error or difference in reporting between the FSO and MPF.
      41.5.1.20. Charges member leave for PCS period when member completes a permissive PCS
      move.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       697


     41.5.1.21. Stops TDY ADSN, if present in MMPA, and if member is locally paid, issues a cancel
     pay authorization to TDY ADSN.
     41.5.1.22. Removes member from basic trainee status, if applicable, and restores payment control
     to DFAS-DE.
     41.5.1.23. Changes data in SG transaction and/or assigns error code to processed or partially
     rejected transactions. These are:
        41.5.1.23.1. If date departed CONUS is in transaction and:
            41.5.1.23.1.1. LE entry indicates member was CONUS and no country or non-CONUS
            state code is in transaction, assigns partially rejected transaction error code TBC (MBR
            DEPRT CONUS CNTRY OR NON-CONUS-STATE MISSING. SUBMIT LE05 OR
            SG05 TRANSACTION AS NECESSARY).
            41.5.1.23.1.2. LE entry indicates member was NOT CONUS and country or non-CONUS
            state code is in transaction, assigns partially rejected transaction error code TCW (MMPA
            AND TRANS SHOW MBR NON-CONUS TO NON-CONUS. DATE DEPARTED OR
            ARRIVED CONUS ZERO-FILLED).
            41.5.1.23.1.3. If no country or non-CONUS state code is in transaction, assigns partially
            rejected transaction error code TDP (MMPA SHOWS MBR WAS NON-CONUS.
            ARR-DEPRT-CODE CHANGED TO A. SUBMIT CORRECTION IF NECESSARY).
        41.5.1.23.2. If date arrived CONUS is in transaction and:
            41.5.1.23.2.1. LE entry indicates member was CONUS and:
                41.5.1.23.2.1.1. Country or non-CONUS state code is in transaction, assigns partially
                rejected transaction error code TDO (MMPA SHOWS MBR WAS CONUS.
                ARR-DEPRT-CODE CHANGES TO D. SUBMIT CORRECTION IF NECES-
                SARY).
                41.5.1.23.2.1.2. No country or non-CONUS state code is in transaction, assigns par-
                tially rejected transaction error code TCV (MMPA SHOWS MBR CONUS TO
                CONUS. SUBMIT CORRECTION IF NECESSARY).
            41.5.1.23.2.2. LE entry indicates member was NOT CONUS and country or non-CONUS
            state code is in transaction, assigns partially rejected transaction error code TCW. (See
            41.5.1.23.2.1.2. above.)
        41.5.1.23.3. If date arrived or depart CONUS is not in transaction and:
            41.5.1.23.3.1. LE entry indicates member was CONUS and country or non-CONUS state
            code is in transaction, assigns partially rejected transaction error code TDG (TRANS AND
            MMPA SHOW MBR DEPRT CONUS. SUBMIT SG05 WITH DATE OF DEPAR-
            TURE).
            41.5.1.23.3.2. LE entry indicates member was not CONUS, assigns partially rejected
            transaction error code TDH (MMPA AND TRANSACTION SHOW MBR ARRIVED
            CONUS. DATE ARRIVED CONUS OF DDLDS PLUS 1 DAY SUPPLIED. SUBMIT
            SG05 TO CORRECT DATE AS NECESSARY).
698                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         41.5.1.23.4. If any of these data items in SG transaction do not agree with tables at DFAS-DE,
         a code is supplied: DUTY-CNTRY or DUTY-NON-CONUS-STATE is changed to US and
         error code TDC (DUTY-CNTRY OR DUTY-NON CONUS-STATE-INVALID. CHANGE
         TO US) is assigned processed transaction.
         41.5.1.23.5. If date of departure and/or arrival falls within a period of leave other than first or
         last day, transaction partially rejects with error code TCQ (LEAVE ENTRY CONFLICTS
         WITH PCS DEPARTURE OR ARRIVAL DATE. SUBMIT CORRECTION AS NECES-
         SARY).
         41.5.1.23.6. If member is in a T status with status suspension reason other than 1, transaction
         partially rejects with error code TCR (MEMBER IN A T STATUS. SUBMIT CORRECTION
         IF NECESSARY).
         41.5.1.23.7. If open/delinquent (PX) pay authorization (PQ, PL, PM, or PJ) is present, trans-
         action partially rejects with error code TEM. Clear open/delinquent pay authorizations. (See
         Chapter 53.)
      41.5.1.24. Closes HI entry created for local payees. Pay is released into net pay.
      41.5.1.25. Stops IDP, IDP with CZTE, CZTE only and HFP Leave Carryover using the effective
      date of the SG arrival date minus 1 day, if the start date of IDP and/or CZTE is after the PCS
      departure (i.e., TDY enroute)
         41.5.1.25.1. If effective date of arrival minus one day is earlier than current calendar month,
         the 23 and FL are stopped and updated immediately.
         41.5.1.25.2. If effective date of arrival minus one day is in the current calendar month, a 23
         future is created with a type ‘G’, effective date of arrival minus one day. Stop date is at the end
         of the calendar month of the effective date of arrival minus one day, processed on the 1st day
         of the next calendar month. For example, if a member departs 971215, the effective date is
         971215, but the stop date is 971231, processed on 980101.
         41.5.1.25.3. For CZTE only (no IDP), if effective date of arrival minus one day is in the same
         month as the FL start date, it is not stopped. The transaction will partially process with error
         code TCC, ‘PCS transaction processed. Determine if CZTE should be stopped or corrected.’
         FL future is created, effective date of stop is date of arrival minus one day, stop date is end of
         month of arrival.
         41.5.1.25.4. If IDP and/or CZTE entries are closed and an SH03 processes, stop dates will be
         corrected (to earlier dates only) and X906 management notice, ‘PCS PROC-VERIFY BS
         ARR/DEP HFP DATES-NOTIFY DFAS FOR ADJ’ will be issued.
         41.5.1.25.5. The associated BS and FL entries are updated with a departed HFP area date of
         SG arrival date minus 1 day if needed. If the BS entry should be closed, it will be closed.
         (NOTE: A BS entry will not always be present).
         41.5.1.25.6. If IDP is closed, date will be corrected to SG date of arrival minus one day if
         needed.
         41.5.1.25.7. If the BS entry has been closed, an X906 management is issued. X906 states
         “PCS PROCESSED-VERIFY BS ARRIVAL/DEPARTURE DATES-NOTIFY DFAS FOR
         ADJUSTMENT”.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            699


          41.5.1.25.8. If HFP entry is closed and the date start/date stop entry does not agree with the
          SG03 dates, and X905 states “PCS PROCESSED. VERIFY AND CORRECT 23, FL, AND/
          OR BS ENTRIES”.
      41.5.1.26. Termination or correction actions for IDP, IDP with CZTE and CZTE only can be pro-
      cessed during PCS processing. See Chapter 13 for IDP and IDP with CZTE. See Chapter 56 for
      CZTE.
   41.5.2. When PCS departure transaction has not been received, DFAS-DE takes these actions:
      41.5.2.1. Except for OTS graduates who have not been promoted or demoted, generates an SH03
      transaction from data in SG03 transaction. SH and SG transactions are processed under normal
      processing. A TCS (SH transaction generated from SG, arrival processed within 7 days of depar-
      ture) or a TCT (SH transaction generated from SG, arrival processed more than 7 days after depar-
      ture) is generated to the losing FSO. NOTE: Once the SG transaction is processed at DFAS-DE,
      the losing FSO can no longer process an SH transaction.
      41.5.2.2. If member is in OTS (MPF-NR ZB MAJCOM-ID OJ and grade E-5 or higher), the SG
      transaction recycles awaiting transaction to separate and reenter or demote member. Processing:
          41.5.2.2.1. Issues management notice XW to MPF ZB requesting a separation/reentry or
          demotion transaction.
          41.5.2.2.2. Recycles arrival input every 3 days, waiting for processing of separation/reentry or
          demotion transaction.
          41.5.2.2.3. If transaction is not received in 21 days, rejects SG transaction to DFAS-DE/FJ for
          follow-up action.

41.6. FSO Actions Upon PCS Departure:
   41.6.1. The FSO must be certain that the MPF is giving members a copy of the clearance information
   sheet, Servicing Your Military Pay, on member's initial processing for PCS departure. The FSO
   should also be sure member is advised of the importance of contacting the FSO and any special
   actions that may be required because of the local situation.
   41.6.2. FSO is responsible for advising members of the impact of PCS, to include PCS with TDY en
   route, on their military pay and allowances.
      41.6.2.1. Chapter 42 and individual entitlement chapters contain specific information pertaining
      to conditions of entitlements. Advise member of the impact of PCS and PCS with TDY en route
      for more than 30 days on the following:
          41.6.2.1.1. BAQ (see Chapter 26).
          41.6.2.1.2. VHA (see Chapter 31).
          41.6.2.1.3. OHA (see Chapter 30).
          41.6.2.1.4. COLA (see Chapter 28).
          41.6.2.1.5. FSA I and II (see Chapter 27).
      41.6.2.2. Advise member what entitlements will terminate upon processing arrival transaction at
      gaining FSO.
700                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         41.6.2.3. Advise members who will be TDY en route, and otherwise entitled to single rate BAQ,
         that the entitlement to the allowance terminates if they temporarily occupy government quarters at
         any one location for more than 30 days. Also, advise them to notify the TDY FSO if they find
         themselves in this situation. Emphasize the importance of timeliness in having their pay accounts
         updated, to prevent future complications and ensure timely processing of the arrival transaction by
         the gaining FSO.
      41.6.3. On member's first visit to the FSO before PCS departure, (normally 45 days), the FSO must
      set up suspense on the pending PCS to make sure that, if a PCS package is to be prepared, the package
      is ready prior to member's departure and the member is instructed to hand-carry all necessary docu-
      ments to the next base. (Ref subparagraph g below for items required to be hand-carried.) Ensure all
      FSO-authorized payments are posted before PCS departure to prevent possible overpayment.
      41.6.4. Sheppard AFB MIMSO students. Medical corps officers entering active duty, who attend the
      Sheppard AFB non-basic trainee officers' course, are authorized payment of contract agreements upon
      graduation since normal PCS movement is not involved. The Sheppard AFB ACF letter, DJMS
      Accession of Non-basic Trainee Officer, will be used in lieu of DD Form 2572. This letter documents
      payments made and should be reviewed before making additional payments.
      41.6.5. The member should be aware of the importance to change addresses for all allotments and
      bonds. (See paragraph 41.3.)
      41.6.6. The FSO must provide the member with the option of receiving his or her leave and earning
      statement (LES) while in a PCS status. See paragraph 7.10.4 for options available to the member.
      41.6.7. DD Form 2572, Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Package Transfer Actions. DD Form
      2572 (see Figure 41.2.) should be prepared for all members who are local payees. Additionally,
      members with the following documents are required to hand-carry a DD Form 2572:
         41.6.7.1. Indebtedness documentation for members whose debts have been suspended because of
         remission applications. (Should include debt, remission, and financial statement documentation.)
         41.6.7.2. Dependency determination or re-determination documents.
         41.6.7.3. Separation or retirement orders, AF Form 350, or "What-If" print.
NOTE: For members choosing to come to a stateside base for separation or retirement, include a copy of
appropriate documentation for presentation to the FSO processing the separation/retirement.
      41.6.8. Members with dependents, departing PCS for an overseas duty station unaccompanied, whose
      dependents live in Alaska, Hawaii, the District of Columbia, or any of the other 48 states, should be
      briefed during out-processing that they may be entitled to continue receiving housing allowances for
      their dependents in the states, while they are overseas. Ensure that the zip code in the states, while
      they are overseas. Ensure that the zip code in the 66 entry, generated by the SH03 processing, is the
      correct zip code for dependents’ residence while member is overseas. If the member is going to
      receive OHA at the overseas location, process a 68 transaction, using the zip code of your location, in
      order for the OHA to process. Because the 68 will be closed by the SH03 processing, when depen-
      dents do not relocate, contact DFAS-DE/FJPA to restore the member’s rate protection. If dependents
      relocate, the gaining FSO must process the 68 and the member loses rate protection.
      41.6.9. Ensure member has been briefed on the Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE) entitlement pro-
      visions as part of the PCS out-processing.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            701


   41.6.10. PCS Departure. The FSO servicing member's losing base submits PCS departure input to
   DFAS-DE within 30 days of the projected departure date. Make every effort to use a projected depar-
   ture date that is as close to the actual departure as possible and to submit the transaction to DFAS-DE
   at least 15 days in advance. This is necessary to cut down on payroll suppressions for personnel
   departing around payday. Special instructions are:
      41.6.10.1. PCS With TDY En Route:
          41.6.10.1.1. Temporary Duty Pending Further Orders (TDPFO). Submit regular PCS depar-
          ture transaction using TDY ADSN as gaining ADSN. If member has more than one TDY
          specified in his or her orders, show the last TDY point as training location (ADSN). This
          applies if member will remain at the intermediate TDY points less than 30 days.
      41.6.10.2. PCS to Hospital in Patient Status. FSO, MPF, and hospital must establish special pri-
      ority procedures for processing PCS departure transaction for AEROMEDVACS. These members
      arrive at their new station the same day they depart or day after. So that member can receive best
      possible pay service, PCS departure transaction must be processed immediately.
      41.6.10.3. Member Departs for Home Awaiting Final Action of Physical Examination Board.
      Submit departure transactions for this member as for normal PCS.
      41.6.10.4. Member Departs for OTS. Process a PCS departure transaction for all members going
      to Maxwell AFB for OTS. Maxwell AFB will in-process these members, via an SG03 transaction,
      and become the servicing FSO during the period of the PCS departure transaction.
      41.6.10.5. Academy Graduates. USAF Academy graduates are assessed as being on station at the
      Academy. The Academy submits a PCS departure transaction to transfer member out on EAD
      date.
      41.6.10.6. Out-processing on day of departure. When a member performs any out-processing
      functions on the day of departure, the SG03 transaction will indicate that the day of departure is a
      day of TDY (DAYS-TDY field) for administrative purposes. Payment of per diem for this day is
      not authorized.
      41.6.10.7. PCS on Appellate Review Leave. Submit departure transactions for this member as for
      normal PCS. When the FSO is notified by the member of PCS, normally 30 to 45 days prior, the
      following actions will be taken:
          41.6.10.7.1. Review member's MMPA for any open or suspended debts. Re-compute the
          repayment rate to ensure maximum two-thirds rule deduction is being applied. Change any
          deductions accordingly.
          41.6.10.7.2. Include information copies of any transaction to change repay rate in member's
          PCS package, if applicable.
   41.6.11. Movement Reason Code E. Use movement reason code E only when travel fund citation
   cites project 5769.OZ or 5869.OZ. Projects are used only for members going to an organization
   which has agreed to reimburse the FSO for member's services. When this movement reason code is
   used, verify fund citation and send a copy of member's orders to DFAS-DE/FJF. (See Figure 41.1.)

41.7. Effect of PCS Departure on MMPA:
702                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      41.7.1. PCS Report Transaction (SH03). (See Figure 41.6.) On receipt of a PCS departure transac-
      tion, the processing actions depend on the projected departure date:
         41.7.1.1. If the projected departure date is equal to or earlier than the processing date, the transac-
         tion is processed at once.
         41.7.1.2. If the projected departure date is later than the processing date, an NO memorandum
         entry is established with the data from the departure transaction, and the transaction is recycled to
         process on the projected departure date unless the departure date falls on or between cutoff date
         and payday.
         41.7.1.3. When the projected departure date falls on or between cutoff date and payday, the SH03
         is processed immediately (both input and recycled transactions). This procedure is followed to
         reduce the number of payroll suppressions at base level. Input transactions received between cut-
         off date and paydate with projected departure dates falling between theses dates are recycled and
         then processed on the projected departure date.
         41.7.1.4. SH03 transactions received after an NO entry is established will delete the NO entry and
         process in accordance with the above guidelines. The original SH03 transaction will not process,
         as it no longer agrees with the NO entry.
         41.7.1.5. Transactions that are recycled are put through all edits possible and those that do not
         pass the edits are rejected. If member's status determinant at time of recycle would cause a reject,
         an XI50 management notice is issued instead of a reject. This notifies the base that member's
         MMPA status will cause the SH03 transaction to reject if the status is not changed before the pro-
         jected departure date. Before a member departs PCS, the FSO verifies his or her status and, if
         other than on station (SA), adjusts to SA or annotates the member's management case file (MCF)
         as to status upon departure.
         41.7.1.6. If the member is a local payee, an HI entry is created when the SH03 is actually pro-
         cessed (date of departure is current date or earlier). The HI entry will contain the member’s net
         pay until the member arrives at his/her new duty station and an SG03 transaction is processed.
      41.7.2. PCS Change and Correct Transaction (SH04 and SH05). (See Figure 41.6.) The actions
      taken on processing depend on whether the PCS report transaction is recycling or processed. If the
      report transaction:
         41.7.2.1. Is recycling, the SH04 or SH05 transaction updates the NO entry and creates an updated
         SH03 transaction which recycles to process on the projected departure date. The original SH03
         transaction will not process since it no longer agrees with the NO entry.
         41.7.2.2. Has processed, the SH04 or SH05 transaction updates the open SH entry and adjusts any
         other entries affected by PCS departure as appropriate. This includes entitlements. The projected
         departure date in the SH05 can not be greater than 30 days from current date.
      41.7.3. PCS Cancel Transaction (SH06). (See Figure 41.6.) If the SH03 transaction has not pro-
      cessed, the cancel transaction deletes the NO entry. This causes the recycling transaction not to pro-
      cess. If the SH03 transaction has processed, the cancel transaction restores member's account to show
      the same data as before the PCS transaction was processed. If IDP, with or without CZTE, or CZTE
      only, has been stopped by PCS processing, an X905 management notice will be issued. The X905
      states: ‘PCS processed. Verify and correct 23, FL and/or BS.’
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         703


  41.7.4. Actions DFAS-DE Takes Automatically on Processing a PCS Departure Report Transaction
  (SH03):
     41.7.4.1. Puts member in H (PCS) status.
     41.7.4.2. Stops these entitlements as of 2400 the day before the day of departure:
        41.7.4.2.1. COLA,
        41.7.4.2.2. OHA,
        41.7.4.2.3. VHA,
        41.7.4.2.4. BAQ:
            41.7.4.2.4.1. Partial rate,
            41.7.4.2.4.2. Without-dependent rate, grades E-1, E-2, E-3 and E-4 (with less than 4 years'
            service).
            41.7.4.2.4.3. Without dependent rate for inadequate quarters (adequacy code 2) regardless
            of grade.
        41.7.4.2.5. Enlisted BAS
     41.7.4.3. Stops these entitlements as of 2400 of the day departed:
        41.7.4.3.1. Flight pay for non-crew members,
        41.7.4.3.2. Foreign duty pay,
        41.7.4.3.3. Flight deck, overseas extension pay and diving duty pay,
        41.7.4.3.4. FSA-I,
        41.7.4.3.5. FSA-II.
     41.7.4.4. Starts these entitlements on the day of departure:
        41.7.4.4.1. IVHA, if VHA was stopped by PCS departure.
        41.7.4.4.2. IVHA is established with the same zip code as VHA.
        41.7.4.4.3. Travel BAS for enlisted (type C), if movement reason code is not T.
        41.7.4.4.4. BAQ without dependents is started from SH03 for E4 over 4 and above. If mem-
        ber was assigned to single government quarters, receiving BAQ with dependents, the assign-
        ment code is changed to “2” and the adequacy to “0”. Dependent rate BAQ will start only
        when partial BAQ was stopped by PCS processing.
     41.7.4.5. Sends a cancel pay authorization to servicing FSO for locally paid personnel.
     41.7.4.6. Updates servicing and paying ADSNs to 9999 as applicable. If gaining ADSN in the SH
     transaction is the same as the servicing ADSN, the servicing and paying ADSNs are not changed
     to 9999.
     41.7.4.7. If projected arrival date is invalid or less than DDLDS, it is changed to DDLDS plus 30
     days and processed transaction is assigned error code TDB. If gaining ADSN does not match
     ADSN table at DFAS-DE, it is changed to 9999 and processed transaction is assigned error code
     TCY. Projected arrival date must include time for TDY en route.
704                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         41.7.4.8. Generates an XI06 management notice to the losing FSO, 7 days before the projected
         DDLDS, for recycling SH03 transactions, or immediately whenever an SH03 transaction is pro-
         cessed. This notice informs the FSO that the PCS transaction will or has processed. A “Y” in
         character position 63 of the processed SH03 indicates that an XI06 management notice has been
         generated.
         41.7.4.9. Establishes an arrival suspense entry of projected arrival date plus 15 days. When the
         suspense matures, an XI03 management notice is issued to the gaining ADSN for the processing
         of the PCS arrival transaction. The XI03 is issued every 15 days until the SG03 is processed.
         41.7.4.10. If member is going PCS from OTS and has not been promoted to grade 01 or demoted
         to grade 34 or below, the SH transaction recycles RAT and the MPF receives an XW management
         notice. If member's normal grade is 35 or higher and member is eliminated from OTS, the FSO
         notifies DFAS-DE by message to manually process the PCS transaction.
         41.7.4.11. The PCS departure transaction does not affect member's MPF or MAJCOM ID. These
         data items are changed independently by an LG transaction from the MPF.
      41.7.5. Effect on IDP, IDP, with CZTE, and CZTE only. Since IDP and CZTE are paid/effective for
      whole months only, they cannot be stopped until after the month the stop is effective.
         41.7.5.1. If effective date of arrival minus one day is earlier than current calendar month, the 23
         and FL are stopped and updated immediately.
         41.7.5.2. If effective date of arrival minus one day is in the current calendar month, a 23 future is
         created with a type ‘G’, effective date of arrival minus one day. Stop date is at the end of the cal-
         endar month of the effective date of arrival minus one day, processed on the 1st day of the next
         calendar month. For example, if a member departs 971215, the effective date is 971215, but the
         stop date is 971231, processed on 980101.
         41.7.5.3. For CZTE only (no IDP), if effective date of arrival minus one day is in the same month
         as the FL start date, it is not stopped. The transaction will partially process with error code TCC,
         ‘PCS transaction processed. Determine if CZTE should be stopped or corrected.’ FL future is
         created, effective date of stop is date of arrival minus one day, stop date is end of month of arrival.
         41.7.5.4. If IDP and/or CZTE entries are closed and an SH03 processes, stop dates will be cor-
         rected (to earlier dates only) and X906 management notice, ‘PCS PROC-VERIFY BS ARR/DEP
         HFP DATES-NOTIFY DFAS FOR ADJ’ will be issued.

41.8. Effect of Other Status on PCS:
      41.8.1. PCS Departure. PCS departure rejects to input source with error code ZBG if member is in
      one of these statuses: AWOL, deserted, missing, or voidable enlistment. If a member is in any other
      status, PCS departure transaction processes as in paragraph 41.7.
      41.8.2. PCS Arrival:
         41.8.2.1. Failure to Report At Gaining Base and Later Arrival. Losing unit is responsible for
         member until member reports to new unit. (See AFI 39-2911, chapter 7.) Thus, if a member is
         determined to be AWOL, losing MPF submits a regular AWOL input. If member reports to new
         station, an on-station transaction to remove AWOL status must be processed by the MPF before
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            705


       processing of SG transaction. Under these circumstances, on-station change transaction returns
       member to a PCS status in the MMPA.
       41.8.2.2. PCS With a Period of AWOL. A period of AWOL, which occurred during time a mem-
       ber was in a PCS status, must be reported.
       41.8.2.3. PCS Arrival-Member in a Confined Status. When a member is in a confined status on
       PCS arrival, PCS arrival input does not start any entitlements except those in paragraph 41.5. for
       members home awaiting physical evaluation board proceedings.
       41.8.2.4. Cancel PCS Member in an AWOL, Confined, or Deserted Status. If a member is in one
       of these statuses when a PCS cancel transaction is received, process PCS cancel transaction in nor-
       mal manner. When PCS cancel is processed, entitlements stopped by departure transactions are
       not restarted.

41.9. PCS Processing. Losing FSO can input transactions for personnel who are in a PCS status as indi-
cated:
   41.9.1. Entitlement. Entitlement transactions can be input for periods before PCS departure and will
   process except:
       41.9.1.1. Format-IDs 39 and 40 for action indicator 03, 05, and 06 can be processed by losing
       base until member arrives at new duty station. Action indicators 01, 02, and 04 will not process.
       41.9.1.2. Format-IDs 49, 51, and 65 process as long as dates do not overlap PCS departure date.
       41.9.1.3. Format-ID 35 processes if date departed in the SH is within 35 days of DFAS-DE pro-
       cessing date, or if member is in PCS status.
   41.9.2. Allotment, collection, deduction, FICA/FITW, or payment transactions can be input while
   member is in PCS status.
   41.9.3. Specific Transactions From Other Categories. LD, LH, ME, MD, MG (only when movement
   reason code is I), MH, N8, E5, E7, and E8 can be input for members in a PCS status as indicated.
   41.9.4. Forwarding Transactions to New Base. Send any transactions that cannot be processed by
   losing base, after member departs, to member's new duty station for processing.
   41.9.5. Number of Records Required. All PCS transactions require a one-record input.

41.10. Special Provisions. Do not submit PCS input transaction to DFAS-DE for:
   41.10.1. Member Declared Mentally Incompetent. For detailed procedures, see Chapter 50.
   41.10.2. Member Placed in an Excess Leave Status To Attend School. When a member is in an
   excess leave status without pay and allowances to attend school, records remain at base since member
   can return to on-station when school is not in session. For detailed procedures, see Chapter 44.
   41.10.3. Member PCS Without PCA to Port for Immediate Separation. (See Chapter 52.) When
   member is transferred to other than a port for separation, PCS departure and arrival transactions must
   be submitted.
   41.10.4. Reenlistees and Officers Reporting for Duty at a TDY Base. Enlisted personnel who reenlist
   in the Air Force after a break in service and officers who report to a TDY base before going to their
   first duty station are accessed via an EA03 transaction from AFPC. This transaction puts member in
706                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      a PCS status with movement reason code I. Do not submit PCS arrival transactions for these mem-
      bers. E203 accession transaction removes these members from PCS status.
      41.10.5. Basic Trainees. Lackland does not submit SH transactions for basic trainees. Gaining base
      must submit an SG03 for these members in all cases. (See Figure 41.5. for SG format.)

41.11. Geographically Separated Units (GSU). When a member's duty station is not at the same loca-
tion as servicing FSO, a message based on normal substantiating documents may be sent to the FSO to
support PCS departure, PCS arrival, and other PCS-related changes. This message must contain all data
necessary to complete the transactions in question. Attach a copy of the substantiating document to the
message and submit to DFAS-DE with other substantiating documents at the end of the month. The FSO
also ensures that transactions input to DFAS-DE agree with the substantiating documents.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     707


Figure 41.1. Movement Reason Codes.
Movement Reason Codes. Use these movement reason codes in PCS departure transactions:


         DATA                                                                     MOVEMENT
         ITEM                                  EXPLANATION                       REASON CODE
Operational                PCS under normal circumstances not involving               A
                           conditions indicated by movement reason codes B
                           through T. For BMT and new accessions, assignment
                           to a location for a period of 20 weeks or more, shall
                           be considered a PCS for pay and allowances
                           purposes. BAS (type C) entitlement accrues during
                           travel time.


Hospital, Patient Status   PCS to a hospital for treatment of a disease, injury,   B
                           wound, or any other incapacitation.


Home Awaiting Physical     a. Stops all open items of pay, except basic pay, BAS   C
Evaluation Board           for officers, with dependent rate BAQ, without
Proceedings                dependent rate BAQ for grades E4 over 4 years of
                           service and above and medical, dental, or veterinary
                           pay effective the day before the member arrives home
                           (PCS arrival).
                           b. Starts Rations in Kind-Not available (RIKNA) for
                           all enlisted grades and without dependent rate BAQ is
                           started, if applicable.
                           c. Starts Leave type K (APEBP) upon PCS arrival.
                           Leave is chargeable until any accrued balance is
                           depleted, after which it becomes non-chargeable.
                           The member continues to receive pay. The leave
                           begins the day after the member arrives home, or the
                           day after constructive travel ends, whichever is
                           earlier. The leave is terminated by the separation
                           transaction.


Other Government           PCS to duty with other federal government or            E
Agency or International    international organizations where reimbursement is
Organization               required under cross-service or other agreements with
                           such agencies. See special instructions, paragraph
                           41.6.l.
708                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         DATA                                                                   MOVEMENT
         ITEM                            EXPLANATION                           REASON CODE
Permissive Permanent   PCS from one duty station to another at personal             F
Change of Station      expense. Leave type B is charged from day of
                       departure thru the day prior to arrival. Leave
                       authorization number generated is PCSHUMA.


Training School        PCS for formal training at either a military                G
                       installation or civilian installation.


Accession              Member is in a PCS status because of an accession            I
                       transaction processed by AFPC. See paragraph
                       41.10.4.
                       This reason code only for use by AFPC with
                       accession transaction. FSO not to use this reason
                       code for their PCS transactions.


Pipeline Personnel     All personnel under ‘group travel orders’ or                 T
                       personnel in training status at any location for less
                       than 20 weeks prior to checking into first PDS, will
                       not be considered at their PDS for pay and allowance
                       purposes.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               709


Figure 41.2. DD Form 2572, Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Package Transfer Actions.
710                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 41.3. Format to Correct Duty Country or Non-CONUS State.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0LE05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      65-66     DUTY-COUNTRY: APPLICABLE COUNTRY CODE


       OR


      65-66     DUTY-NON-CONUS-STATE:
                02—ALASKA
                15—HAWAII
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                 711


Figure 41.4. Format to Change Location/Command Identity.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0LG04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     32-33      MPF CODE


     34-35      MAJCOM IDENTITY CODE


     36-39      UNIT OF ASSIGNMENT CODE


     42-46      OFFICE SYMBOL
712                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 41.5. Format to Report/Correct PCS Arrival.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0SG03/05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD MEMBER ARRIVED ON STATION


      26-31     YYMMDD MEMBER DEPARTED LAST DUTY STATION. DDLDS FOR
                ACADEMY GRADUATES WILL EQUAL EAD DATE


       32       QTR-DAY-ARRIVAL--APPLICABLE CODE FOR TIME OF ARRIVAL:
                1--0001-0700
                2--0701-1200
                3--1201-1800
                4--1801-2400


       33       QTR-DAY-DEPART--APPLICABLE CODE FOR TIME OF DEPARTURE: SEE
                QTR-DAY-ARRIVAL FOR CODES


       34       APPLICABLE CODE FOR TYPE OF PCS MOVEMENT. SEE Figure 41.1.


      35-36     CANNOT BE BLANK. APPLICABLE COUNTRY CODE FROM Attachment 16
                IF MEMBER IS OVERSEAS; 2 IF IN ALASKA; 15 IF IN HAWAII OR US IF IN
                CONUS


       37       CODE 7 IF MEMBER IS ENTITLED TO FOREIGN DUTY PAY: OTHERWISE,
                BLANK


       45       ARRIVAL-DEPARTURE-CODE: A--ARRIVAL OR D--DEPARTURE;
                INDICATES WHETHER DATE IN 46-51 IS ARRIVAL OR DEPARTURE DATE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              713


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    46-51    YYMMDD MEMBER ARRIVED/DEPARTED CONUS. BLANK IF NOT
             APPLICABLE


    52-53    NUMBER OF DAYS AUTHORIZED TRAVEL TIME


    54-56    NUMBER OF DAYS MEMBER WAS TDY ENROUTE


     57      NUMBER OF DAYS (0-4) PROCEED TIME MEMBER WAS ENTITLED


    58-62    ZIP CODE TO START IVHA; BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


     63      IVHA ACCOMPANIED-STATUS CODE:
             0—UNACCOMPANIED
             1—ACCOMPANIED
             OTHERWISE, LEAVE BLANK




     64      CODE TO START PARTIAL OR WITHOUT DEPENDENT RATE BAQ:
             4--CHANGE WITH DEPENDENT RATE BAQ ASSIGNMENT FROM
             UNASSIGNED TO MEMBER ASSIGNED SINGLE GOVERNMENT
             QUARTERS
             6--START PARTIAL RATE BAQ, CLOSEST DEPENDENT R (NO
             DEPENDENTS)
             7--START PARTIAL RATE BAQ, CLOSEST DEPENDENT I (MEMBER
             MARRIED TO MEMBER)
             8--START WITHOUT DEPENDENT RATE BAQ, CLOSEST DEPENDENT R
             (NO DEPENDENTS)
714                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


              9--START WITHOUT DEPENDENT RATE BAQ, CLOSEST DEPENDENT I
              (MEMBER MARRIED TO MEMBER)
              OTHERWISE, LEAVE BLANK


       65     CODE TO START SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCE TYPE:
              B -- SEPARATE RATIONS
              H -- RATIONS-IN-KIND NOT AVAILABLE
              K -- RATIONS UNDER EMERGENCY CONDITIONS


      66-67   BLANK UNLESS INPUT SOURCE IS DFAS-DE, THEN ADSN 38XX


              IF MEMBER IS GOING FROM ONE OVERSEAS LOCATION TO ANOTHER,
              DATE-DEPRT OR ARR-CONUS WILL BE BLANK. WHEN MEMBER IS
              HOSPITALIZED, IS ON EMERGENCY LEAVE OR TDY AND IS
              REASSIGNED WHILE IN THAT STATUS, DDLDS WILL BE THE DATE THE
              DECISION IS MADE TO REASSIGN MEMBER. IF MEMBER IS ASSIGNED
              TO CONUS, ZIP CODE WILL PERTAIN TO ACTUAL DUTY LOCATION; IF
              MEMBER IS ASSIGNED OVERSEAS, ZIP CODE WILL PERTAIN TO
              ACTUAL LOCATION OF MEMBER'S DEPENDENTS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                   715


Figure 41.6. Format to Report/Change/Correct/Cancel PCS Departure.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0SH03/04/05/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF PROJECTED DATE MEMBER IS TO DEPART DUTY STATION
                PCS OR YYMMDD OF ACTUAL DEPARTURE DATE. 03, 04 AND 06 WILL
                CONTAIN VALID DATE (CANNOT BE ZEROS)


      32        WILL BE 1 IN ALL CASES


      33        CODE APPROPRIATE TO TYPE OF PCS MOVEMENT. SEE Figure 41.1.
                MOVEMENT CODE E IS USED ONLY AFTER VERIFYING IN PCS ORDERS
                THAT FUND CITATION INCLUDES PROJECTS 5769OM OR 5869OM


     40-45      YYMMDD OF MEMBER'S PROJECTED ARRIVAL DATE NEW DUTY
                STATION


     46-49      ADSN OF SERVICING FSO AT NEW DUTY STATION


                IF A MEMBER IS A CENTRAL PAYEE UPON DEPARTURE AND LATER
                CHANGED TO A LOCAL PAYEE AND PCS IS CANCELED, THE PAYING
                ADSN WILL BE RESTORED AS 3800. AN LB04 WILL BE REQUIRED TO
                CHANGE PAYING ADSN TO THE LOCAL STATION AFTER THE SH06
                PROCESSES.
716                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 42

                                       TEMPORARY DUTY (TDY)

42.1. Description. TDY processing is similar to event-oriented transactions, such as PCS. A TDY
ADSN is recorded on the MMPA so that a TDY FSO may give regular pay service to a member in TDY
status.

42.2. Substantiating Documents. Use DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (MPO), or TDY orders pro-
cessed as an MPO. (See Figure 42.1.) For checks to financial organizations, use SF 1199A, Direct
Deposit Sign-Up Form. (See Chapter 38.)

42.3. Effect on MMPA:
      42.3.1. Start TDY ADSN (LD01). (See Figure 42.2.) This transaction puts a TDY ADSN on the
      MMPA and can be submitted only by the member's TDY ADSN. An LD01 transaction should be sub-
      mitted for all members TDY to a location for more than 30 days, and desiring pay service by the TDY
      FSO; for example, receipt of LES at the TDY location. When a TDY ADSN is established on a mem-
      ber's MMPA:
         42.3.1.1. The TDY ADSN (LD) entry on the MMPA can
             42.3.1.1.1. change paying ADSN;
             42.3.1.1.2. change level of payment from central to local or vice versa;
             42.3.1.1.3. start, stop, and report pay and allowances accruing to the member while at the
             TDY station. (BAS start will not process unless member is in a permanent change of station
             (PCS) (SH) status.);
             42.3.1.1.4. start or stop allotments.
         42.3.1.2. The member's LES and NPA go to the TDY base.
         42.3.1.3. Only a subsequent TDY ADSN can submit an LD04 transaction to change from the old
         to the new TDY ADSN.
      42.3.2. Stop TDY ADSN (LD02). (See Figure 42.2.) Either the servicing or the TDY ADSN can
      submit this transaction. It stops TDY action on the MMPA and, if the member is being paid locally by
      the TDY base, issues a cancel pay authorization to the TDY ADSN and returns the authorization to the
      member's servicing FSO. If the member is PCS, TDY en route, paying ADSN is changed to 9999, and
      the PI entry is established. Either the servicing or TDY ADSN stops pay and allowances accruing to
      the member while TDY and started by the TDY ADSN using the effective date in the LD02.
      42.3.3. Change TDY ADSN (LD04). (See Figure 42.2.) Only the gaining TDY ADSN can submit
      this transaction. It changes the TDY ADSN on the MMPA and results in a management notice (XM)
      to gaining servicing ADSN. If the member is locally paid at the TDY point, this transaction causes the
      system to issue a cancel pay authorization to the original TDY ADSN and sends a new pay authoriza-
      tion to the new TDY ADSN if an LB04 is received, otherwise paying ADSN is changed to 9999 until
      receipt of an LD02. The gaining TDY ADSN stops pay and allowances accruing to the member while
      TDY and started by the original or prior TDY ADSN using the effective date in the LD04.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          717


   42.3.4. Change Paying ADSN (LB04). (See Figure 7.10.) If member is PCS, TDY en route, this
   transaction changes paying ADSN from 9999 to the TDY ADSN and results in an appropriate pay
   authorization and the closing of the PI entry.
   42.3.5. Start or Stop Payment to Bank (LH01 OR 02). See Chapter 38, Figure 38.4. for input
   screens. Use these transactions when a member is paid centrally and wishes to be paid locally or vice
   versa.
      42.3.5.1. If the member is PCS, this transaction changes paying ADSN to 9999 and establishes
      the PI entry on the member's MMPA. After this transaction has processed, an LB04 (change pay-
      ing ADSN) transaction is required to establish the TDY ADSN as the paying ADSN.
      42.3.5.2. If member is a local payee and paying ADSN is other than 9999, this transaction results
      in a cancel pay authorization to the paying ADSN and the member is established as a central
      payee. If paying ADSN is 9999, this transaction results in cancellation of the PI entry on the
      member's MMPA and the establishment of the member as a central payee.

42.4. FSO Actions:
   42.4.1. Before TDY. Advise members of the impact that TDY will have on their pay. The most com-
   monly affected allowances are:
      42.4.1.1. FSA II. (See Chapter 27.)
      42.4.1.2. Hardship Duty Pay – Location. (See Chapter 18.)
      42.4.1.3. COLA. (See Chapter 28.)
   42.4.2. At Departure:
      42.4.2.1. Submit transactions to stop appropriate entitlements not accruing to the member while
      TDY.
      42.4.2.2. Prepare the member's PCS package if applicable for transfer and give it to the member
      to hand-carry to the TDY FSO. Instruct the member as to the importance of the management case
      file and advise members to check with FSO on arriving at and departing from the TDY station.
      Chapter 79 contains special instructions regarding deployment.
      42.4.2.3. If TDY is in conjunction with a PCS movement, the servicing FSO should process the
      SH03.
   42.4.3. Member Returns From TDY:
      42.4.3.1. If TDY ADSN has been established, obtain the PCS package from the member and sub-
      mit an LD02 using the date in the travel voucher as the effective date to stop TDY. This input is
      necessary only if an X7 management notice has not been received. The X7 is proof that the TDY
      ADSN input the LD02 to stop TDY. Pay and allowances which were started in conjunction with
      TDY are stopped based on input from the TDY ADSN.
      42.4.3.2. Upon receipt of the travel voucher (per AFI 65-114), use the voucher and DD Form 114
      as a source document to submit the transactions to start, stop, or change appropriate TDY entitle-
      ments. All adjustments should be made per the DoDFMR, Volume 7A and the JFTR.
      42.4.3.3. An SG03 with an effective date one day before the arrival date is computer-generated if
      the TDY ADSN did not process an LD02. Permanent duty station (PDS) processes an SG03 if the
718                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         member was PCS, TDY en route, when he or she arrives at the PDS. This computer-generated
         LD02 contains a management notice MNY to the PDS requesting they review the propriety of the
         effective date supplied. If the date is invalid, act to correct the effective date and pay and allow-
         ances.
      42.4.4. TDY FSO Actions:
         42.4.4.1. Arrival at TDY Station--Member To Receive Pay Service:
            42.4.4.1.1. Obtain the member's PCS package if applicable.
            42.4.4.1.2. Input an LD01 using the proper effective date. For enlisted members who are
            accessed and go TDY for training at ATC bases before reporting to their PDS, the accession
            transaction establishes the MMPA with an LD entry and the paying and servicing ADSN as
            9999. This allows the TDY FSO to service these members the same as other TDY members.
            For all other personnel, enlisted or officer, who go on active duty with extended TDY before
            reporting to their first PDS, the TDY FSO must input the LD01 to establish themselves as the
            TDY ADSN and furnish the member's pay service.
            42.4.4.1.3. If the member desires local payment at the TDY station, prepare and input an
            LB04 to change paying ADSN. (See paragraph 42.3.4.)
            42.4.4.1.4. Submit input to start appropriate entitlements accruing to the member as a result of
            TDY.
      42.4.5. Member departs TDY Station:
         42.4.5.1. Submit transactions to stop appropriate entitlements accruing to the member.
         42.4.5.2. Submit an LD02 to terminate TDY ADSN.
         42.4.5.3. Prepare the management case file for transfer and give to the member to hand-carry to
         the PDS or next TDY station.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          719


Figure 42.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (to Start TDY ADSN).
720                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 42.2. Format to Start/Stop/Change TDY ADSN.

 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5    0LD01/02/04


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD OF:
              A. DATE MEMBER WILL REPORT TO TDY STATION WHEN ACTION-INDICATOR IS 01 OR 04
              B. DATE MEMBER COMPLETED TDY WHEN ACTION-INDICATOR IS 02


      32-35   TDY-ADS WHEN ACTION-INDICATOR IS 01 OR 04. BLANK WHEN ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


              01--START CAN BE INPUT BY TDY ADSN ONLY
              02--STOP CAN BE INPUT BY EITHER SERVICING OR TDY ADSN
              04--CHANGE CAN BE INPUT BY THE GAINING (MEMBER GOES FROM ONE TDY POINT TO
              ANOTHER TDY POINT) TDY ADSN


              EFFECTIVE DATE (CP 20-25) MUST BE LESS THAN 30 DAYS FROM PROCESSING DATE.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            721


                                              Chapter 43

                                             ON STATION

43.1. Description. Upon member's entry into the Air Force, on-station status is established. It remains in
effect until changed by subsequent status input.

43.2. Substantiating Documents. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change, is the basic source document
used to return a member to on-station status. Member's unit prepares and numbers AF Form 2098 (Figure
43.1.) and sends it to the MPF.

43.3. Responsibilities. The source of input for on station (SA) transactions is dependent on the status
from which member is being removed.
   43.3.1. Servicing FSO. The servicing FSO must submit a DT04 transaction to restart any suspended
   DF (indebtedness) resulting from an AWOL, confinement (type 1 or 6), or desertion status.
   43.3.2. MPF. The MPF is responsible for submission of SA transactions to remove a member from
   bad status (AWOL (J), confinement (K) or deserter (P)). SA transactions to remove a member from
   bad status always recycle for 10 days to allow the TI05 transaction with the commander's determina-
   tion of bad time to be processed first. The SA transaction recycles with error code RDD and generates
   an NW entry on the MMPA. The NW entry contains the SA transaction and alerts anybody looking at
   the record to the fact that the SA transaction has been received.
   43.3.3. DFAS-DE. DFAS-DE is responsible for input of SA transactions to remove a member from
   missing (M) and mentally incompetent (U) status.

43.4. FSO Actions:
   43.4.1. Actions Required When Absentee Returns to Same Duty Station:
       43.4.1.1. Return of Absentee Before Management File Is Sent to DFAS-DE. Advise DFAS-DE
       by input transaction of member's return to on-station or other status. See the chapter in this vol-
       ume that pertains to the specific status, from which member is being returned to on-station, for
       specific procedures. Do not transfer management file to DFAS-DE.
       43.4.1.2. Return of Absentee After Management File Is Sent to DFAS-DE. FSO advises
       DFAS-JMCBC/DE by phone or CMS case of member's return and requests current status of mem-
       ber's account. Give member's name, SSN, and accounting and disbursing station number (ADSN)
       of servicing FSO. DFAS-DE forwards management file and new pay authorization to the FSO if
       member elects local payment. FSO may pay member a partial payment that does not exceed
       amount due. (See Chapter 36.) If member is reassigned before management file is received from
       DFAS-DE, send management file to member's gaining FSO upon receipt.
   43.4.2. Action Required When Absentee Reports to Station Other Than Last Duty Station:
       43.4.2.1. Notice of Member's Return to Military Control. If an absentee reports at other than last
       duty station, office to whom member reports notifies MPF of the reporting station at once.
722                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         43.4.2.2. Actions by FSO at Station Where Member Has Reported. MPF advises FSO, who in
         turn advises DFAS-DE, by phone or CMS case, of member's return and member's current status.
         Provide DFAS-DE member's name, SSN, date returned to military control, and ADSN of the FSO.
         43.4.2.3. Actions by FSO. FSO may pay member a partial payment as stated in subparagraph
         43.4.1.2. above. Review MMPA printout and submit any input transaction for required adjust-
         ment actions.

43.5. Effect on MMPA. (See Table 43.1. and Table 43.2.)

43.6. DFAS-DE Actions. DFAS-DE forwards management file, if available and an updated pay authori-
zation to new FSO if member requests local payment. If management file is not available, DFAS-DE que-
ries old station and requests it be forwarded to new servicing FSO. If unable to locate management file,
DFAS-DE advises the new FSO to establish a temporary management file.

43.7. Input. The SA transaction is effective with the first full day in an on-station status. For status SJ,
SK, SP, SM, day of return to on-station is considered first full day in an on-station status. See Figure
43.2. for SA input screens.
      43.7.1. Action Indicators. Specific action indicators are prescribed to input on-station status. Their
      use and effect are explained in Table 43.1. For ACTN-INDCTR 04, enter date member's status
      started. For ACTN-INDCTR 06, Date-Start must be same as transaction being canceled.
      43.7.2. Status Codes:
         43.7.2.1. On-station-code A.
         43.7.2.2. AWOL-code J.
         43.7.2.3. Confined-code K. (See Chapter 47 and Attachment 14 for types.)
         43.7.2.4. Leave (excess)-code B. Law students reporting for short period(s) of active duty during
         school vacation(s). Upon completion of duty, member reverts to excess leave.
         43.7.2.5. Deserted-code P; missing-code M; and mentally incompetent-code U. DFAS-DE pre-
         pares input transaction to adjust MMPA for the new status.
      43.7.3. Special Management File. FSO enters notation of all actions returning member from non-pay
      status to on-station in a management case file. Enter termination of prior non-pay status and effective
      date from input transaction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                       723


Figure 43.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change.
724                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 43.2. Format to Change/Cancel On-Station Status.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0SA04/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD STATUS STARTED


       33       ZERO


                A SA04 CONTAINS THE DATE MEMBER’S STATUS STARTED. A SA06
                MUST CONTAIN THE SAME DATE AS IN THE TRANSACTION BEING
                CANCELED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        725


Table 43.1. Action Indicators – Use and Effect – On-Station Status.
                A                 B                  C                            D
R
U     If status             and action     and input             then effect on MMPA is to
L     determinant is        indicator is   transaction has
E
    1 code A (on-station)   44 – change    a start date          change member's status to
                                                                 on-station and close the prior
                                                                 status (note 2).
    2 code A                46 – cancel    a start date which    cancel on-station status on a
                                           equals prior          continuing basis (note 1)
                                           erroneous date in the
                                           MMPA

NOTES:
     1. Member status immediately before the erroneous status condition is restored. If a new status
        exists, prepare a separate transaction effective after end of on-station status.
        2. See Chapter 46 for exception.
726                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 43.2. Effect of Input Transaction on MMPA – On-Station Status.
               A                      B                                     C
R
U       If input           and member's prior       then effect on MMPA is to
L       transaction status MMPA status was
E       was
    1 on-station     AWOL (code J) or               a. restart items of pay and allowances
      (FORMAT-ID SA) confined by civil              including deductions which were suspended
                     authorities (code K) (type     by prior status, except items requiring specific
                     1 or 6)                        input (notes 1 and 2).
                                                    b. release pay held, if any, and include in pay
                                                    due member or apply to debts.
                                                    c. reinstate accrual of leave.
                                                    d. compute days' lost time based on a 30-day
                                                    month and record in MMPA.
                                                    e. adjust pay date, longevity futures.
                                                    TAFMSD, and future due date of reenlistment
                                                    or variable bonus date by number of days' lost
                                                    time.
    2                     desertion (DFAS-DE        perform actions stated in rule 1.
                          prepares input
                          transaction)
    3                     missing (DFAS-DE          a. restart CMA for enlisted members, and
                          prepares input            b. transfer servicing and control of member's
                          transaction)              account to proper FSO.
    4                     civil witness (code K,    record status in MMPA and continue accruals
                          type 2)                   in pay account.
    5                     confinement-military     a. restart items of pay and allowances
                          pending (code K, type 3) suspended by military confinement status,
                                                   except as stated in note 1, and
                                                    b. perform actions stated in c, d, and e, rule 1.
    6                     confinement-military      produce a print out of MMPA for DFAS-DE,
                          sentenced (code K, type   which researches the court-martial record and
                          4)                        adjusts MMPA, as required.
    7                     mentally incompetent      perform action stated in step b, rule 3.
                          (code U) (DFAS-DE
                          prepares input
                          transaction)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        727


NOTES:
     1. To restart any allotments discontinued by prior status input transactions, see Chapter 57 and
        Chapter 58.
       2. Submit separate transactions to start other items of entitlement and allotment. See specific
          chapters in this volume regarding preparation of input transaction.
728                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 44

                                                   LEAVE

44.1. Description. Leave accounting is an integral part of DJMS. The MMPA contains a record of the
member's leave account which includes the number of days taken, departure and return dates, type of
leave, leave balance, etc. Leave balances are automatically adjusted at the beginning of each month to
include leave accrued for the new month. The leave balance is found in the BR entry on the MMPA.

44.2. Substantiating Documents:
      44.2.1. AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization, (Figure 44.2.), is the substantiating document
      for most leaves. Part I of the form is received when a member requests leave. Part III is received
      when a member returns from leave. Leave types and codes are listed in paragraph 44.8.
         44.2.1.1. Reviewing and Coding. AF Form 988 is reviewed for proper preparation and signatures.
         It is then encoded for DJMS transaction input.
         44.2.1.2. Disposition. AF Form 988 is the substantiating document for leave data entered on the
         MMPA. Part I is attached to the document transmittal list (DTL) and sent to DFAS-DE. When
         processing a leave request for excess leave, no special action is required.
      44.2.2. AF Form 985 for travel generated leave is prepared by the Travel Section in conjunction with
      the travel settlement voucher. The PCS orders are the substantiating documents for leaves generated
      by PCS. Travel generated leave types are listed in paragraph 44.8.

44.3. Responsibilities:
      44.3.1. General FSO Responsibilities. The FSO is the functional manager for base-level leave
      accounting. As such, the FSO must monitor the performance of supported units, including geograph-
      ically separated units (GSUs). The FSO must either conduct an annual assistance and inspection visit
      or obtain self-inspection checklists, certified by the commanders of those supported units. Finance
      trains the unit leave monitor (ULM) and alternates on their roles and responsibilities in managing the
      leave program and on the use of LeaveWeb (LW) prior to issuing them unit administration access to
      LW. This includes briefing the ULM personnel to inform the FSO when they leave the unit or are no
      longer assigned as the ULM. If checklists are used and they show the unit is functioning satisfactorily,
      an FSO visit would not be necessary. However, if through the self-inspection checklist, the FSO
      determines the unit needs assistance, the FSO must establish a follow-up to ensure problems are cor-
      rected. Either a follow-up visit by the FSO or a letter from the unit commander indicating that prob-
      lems were corrected will suffice. If the unit does not provide a certified checklist to the FSO, the FSO
      must obtain a checklist or visit the unit. Those units whose performance is substandard should be pro-
      vided assistance or inspections on a monthly or more frequent basis until performance is satisfactory.
      The FSO should document either that the unit visits were performed or that checklists were obtained
      and also document training of newly assigned leave clerks. (A memo for record or an entry in a log
      would be sufficient to document a visit; a copy of the commander certified checklist could document
      that the checklist was obtained.)
NOTE: See Figure 44.3. for Sample Checklist.
      44.3.2. Military Pay Section:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           729


       44.3.2.1. Is responsible for DJMS input, control, processing, and quality examination as outlined
       in Chapter 1.
       44.3.2.2. Follows common DJMS documentation and processing procedures as outlined in Chap-
       ter 2.
       44.3.2.3. Is responsible for control of terminal leave.
           44.3.2.3.1. Maintains AF Form 1486, Unit Leave Control Log. (See Figure 44.1.)
           44.3.2.3.2. Receives request for leave authorization number from unit, verifies that requested
           number of days terminal leave will not exceed leave balance on date of separation, and issues
           the next leave authorization number.
           44.3.2.3.3. Performs necessary follow-up actions to make sure terminal leave requests are
           processed.
   44.3.3. Travel Section. Ensuring that the travel section computes travel-generated leave, prepares AF
   Form 985, Report of Travel Time/Leave (JUMPS) and inputs the DJMS leave transactions. If the
   leave is taken during Permanent Change of Station (PCS) travel, the military pay section is provided
   with a legible copy of the PCS voucher and AF Form 985 to use for inputting the change of station
   (SG03) transaction (DFAS-DER 7010-3, part six). Separate leave source documents are not required.
   44.3.4. Non-Duty Hours Emergency Leave Control. FSO establishes local procedures for preparation
   and control of AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization, when member must depart during
   non-duty hours. Procedures provide for approval of AF Form 988 by the commander, designated rep-
   resentative, or the duty officer in a consolidated 24 hour function (OD, SDO, command post, etc.).
   Administrative control procedures will be established to make certain the AF Form 988 is sent to the
   member's commander or supervisor and ultimately to the FSO. A document control log may be
   required.
   44.3.5. Retention of the Daily Register of Transactions (DROT). DROTs are retained at the military
   pay subject matter areas for 6 months after the end of the month in which the DROT was created per
   Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. The FSO subject matter areas (travel, military pay, etc.) are
   not considered unit input sources for DROT retention purposes.

44.4. FSO Actions. AF Form 988 processing: Part I of AF Form 988 is sent to the FSO when requested
leave has been approved. Part III is sent to the FSO when previously requested leave is to be canceled or
when an adjustment to leave dates is necessary. The following provisions apply to most leave processing.
(Supplemental procedures for special conditions are contained in paragraph 44.6.)
   44.4.1. Leave Request. Receive Part I of AF Form 988. Process SB01 transaction. Attach Part I of
   AF Form 988 to the DROT.
   44.4.2. Leave Departure. No Action.
   44.4.3. Change to Leave Date or Leave Extension. Process as a leave correction.
   44.4.4. Early Leave Return. Receive Part III of AF Form 988. Process as a leave correction (SB05
   transaction). Attach Part III to DTL.
   44.4.5. Leave Canceled. Receive Part III of AF Form 988 marked "canceled" and signed and dated
   by the supervisor. Process SB06 transaction. Attach Part III to DTL.
730                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      44.4.6. Leave Correct. If an SB51 contains an error, but no SB02 or SB03 has been input, process an
      SB05 transaction to update PSF suspense. (See Figure 44.9.) If an SB02 or SB03 has been input,
      process an SB06 transaction to cancel the erroneous entry and another SB03 to report the correct
      period of leave.
      44.4.7. Transaction Rejects. Receive SB01, SB02, etc. rejects from either base-level system or
      DFAS-DE. Correct transactions and re-input.

44.5. Effect of Leave on MMPA:
      44.5.1. General. Leave accounting is an integral part of the DJMS. The MMPA is a record of the
      member's leave account which includes the number of days taken, departure and return dates, type of
      leave, leave balance, etc. Leave balances are automatically adjusted at the beginning of each month to
      include leave accrued for the new month. The leave balance is found in the BR entry on the MMPA.
      (See Figure 44.4.)
      44.5.2. Effects of Leave Transactions on the MMPA. Leave transactions adjust the leave balances on
      the MMPA. Pay and entitlement adjustments are made when necessary depending on the leave type
      taken. When a leave start is posted to the MMPA, adjustments are based upon the projected return
      date or separation date. The following may systematically occur:
         44.5.2.1. Under normal conditions when the system receives a leave start transaction, an NB sus-
         pense entry is created on the MMPA. The transaction recycles until the start date. On the start
         date an SB01 entry is created on the MMPA and the transaction recycles until the projected stop
         day. If a leave correction is received the recycling transaction and the NB suspense entry are
         changed to reflect the corrected information. On the date of return from leave, the leave transac-
         tion comes out of recycle, posts to the MMPA as an SB03, and the NB suspense entry is deleted.
         44.5.2.2. When a leave involves excess leave, terminal leave, or leave awaiting appellate review,
         the transaction recycles until the start date. The system then posts the leave transaction (SB01) to
         the MMPA on the start date, deletes the NB suspense entry, adjusts the leave balances, and adjusts
         pay when necessary. When the member is on terminal leave, leave awaiting appellate review, or
         leave awaiting physical evaluation board processing, the leave is stopped by DJMS upon separa-
         tion.
         44.5.2.3. Excess leave stops pay, entitlements, and leave accruals. For members with an expira-
         tion term of service (ETS) date, the system calculates the maximum number of leave days that the
         member can accrue through the ETS date. Any excess leave periods over the maximum accrual
         automatically changes the member's MMPA to excess leave status on the date the advance accru-
         als expire. For members without an ETS date, excess leave is charged based on the amount of
         excess leave input in the leave transactions. Adjustments are made when the leave return transac-
         tion (SB03) is processed. Any adjustments for excess leave (non-accrual) would be made upon
         return from excess leave. Further information on excess leave collections is in Chapter 70.
         44.5.2.4. Entitlements of pay and allowances may be automatically adjusted depending upon the
         type and length of leave and the area in which leave was taken. Entitlements that may be adjusted
         are:
             44.5.2.4.1. Basic Allowance for Housing
             44.5.2.4.2. Basic Allowance for Subsistence
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           731


         44.5.2.4.3. Basic Pay
         44.5.2.4.4. Cost of Living Allowance
         44.5.2.4.5. Diving Duty Pay
         44.5.2.4.6. Foreign Duty Pay
         44.5.2.4.7. Hostile Fire Pay
         44.5.2.4.8. Sea Duty Pay
         44.5.2.4.9. Station Housing Allowance
         44.5.2.4.10. Meal Deductions
     44.5.2.5. An entitlement to Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) with dependents and Servicemen's
     Group Life Insurance (SGLI) may require FSO adjustment as follows:
         44.5.2.5.1. Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) with Dependents is stopped when DJMS
         receives a transaction indicating the member returned to CONUS on leave, for any days in
         excess of 30 consecutive days. If the FSO determines that one or more of the dependents
         remained in the overseas area, a one-time adjustment transaction must be input by the FSO to
         reinstate the entitlement for the period of leave. (See Chapter 28 for input format.) The enti-
         tlement to COLA does not stop when a member goes on leave outside of CONUS. No adjust-
         ment is necessary.
         44.5.2.5.2. Servicemen's Group Life Insurance (SGLI) is stopped only if the member declines
         coverage during extended periods of excess leave.
  44.5.3. Leaves Generated By PCS:
     44.5.3.1. PCS leaves are generated on the MMPA by the PCS (SG) transaction. The PCS orders
     are the substantiating document. There are two types of leave generated by PCS:
         44.5.3.1.1. Awaiting Physical Evaluation Board Processing (APEBP): leave type - 'K'; occurs
         when the movement reason code in the PCS transaction is a 'C'. The leave is chargeable until
         any accrued balance is depleted, after which it becomes non-chargeable. The member contin-
         ues to receive pay. The leave begins the day after the member arrives home, or the day after
         constructive travel ends, whichever is earlier. The leave is terminated by the separation trans-
         action.
         44.5.3.1.2. Permissive PCS: leave type - 'B'; occurs when the movement reason code in the
         PCS is 'F'. The leave is chargeable. The leave period begins the day of departure and ends the
         day before arrival at the member's new permanent duty station. If dates of departure and
         arrival are the same, no leave is chargeable.
  44.5.4. Travel Generated Leaves. See AFI 65-114, for detailed FSO procedures concerning the pro-
  cessing of travel generated leave. Chapter 4 for TDY, Chapter 5 for PCS, and Chapter 8 for AF 985
  instructions.
     44.5.4.1. All travel generated leave is processed as a report, after the fact. An AF Form 985 is
     prepared by the Travel Section in conjunction with the travel settlement voucher.
     44.5.4.2. Input a leave report transaction based upon data in the travel voucher using the AF Form
     985 as the source document.
732                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      44.5.5. Processing by Leave Event, Sequence is:
         44.5.5.1. Request Approved. The base-level FSO inputs a leave request transaction. The central
         site system establishes a suspense based on the leave return date.
         44.5.5.2. Member Departed. No input required by base-level FSO, however, if leave type is P or
         R, or if there is excess leave, the DFAS-DE subsystem releases leave start transaction to MMPA.
         Leave type R and excess leave establish a suspense for a return transaction. Otherwise, no action.
         44.5.5.3. Leave extended. FSO inputs correction transaction. DFAS-DE corrects MMPA leave
         and pay adjustments.
         44.5.5.4. Leave Corrected. FSO inputs correction transaction. DFAS-DE corrects MMPA leave
         and pay adjustments caused by improperly recorded leave transaction.
         44.5.5.5. Leave Canceled. FSO inputs cancellation transaction. DFAS-DE deletes NB suspense
         MMPA entry, if present, reverses MMPA leave and pay adjustment caused by recorded start of
         leave, and closes the erroneous entry.
         44.5.5.6. Member Returns. FSO takes no action. DFAS-DE records leave on MMPA, and starts
         pay and allowances if member returned from excess leave.
         44.5.5.7. Change to Leave Start Date. Process as a leave correction.
         44.5.5.8. Leave Recorded on MMPA Erroneously. FSO inputs correct or cancel transactions as
         required. DFAS-DE reverses or corrects MMPA leave and pay adjustments caused by the errone-
         ous leave and records the erroneous entry and correction on the MMPA.

44.6. Special Provisions:
      44.6.1. Supplemental Procedures for Leave Taken Within 30 Days of Final Separation or Retirement.
      Leave accounting is critical when separation is pending. Leave must be posted promptly to the mem-
      ber's MMPA so that it can be considered in the mechanized computation of separation pay. Unless
      DJMS leave transactions are posted to the MMPA at least 11 days before the separation date, the sep-
      aration pay authorization issued by DJMS will not be correct and the reenlistment and separation area
      will have to manually compute or adjust the separation settlement. In any case, the reenlistment and
      separation area must verify the MMPA posting of all recent leaves. Supplemental procedures are:
         44.6.1.1. When a member requests leave with a planned return date within 30 days of separation
         or retirement, FSO receives Part I of AF Form 988 annotated "Member Separating on (Date)."
         Process SB01 according to normal procedures. Send a copy of Part I to the reenlistment and sep-
         arations area for immediate filing in the management file.
         44.6.1.2. If a correction is required when the member returns, receive Part III and process the
         applicable transactions (SB05, or SB06 and SB03) as a priority action. Notify reenlistment and
         separations area of actual leave dates. Attach Part III to the DTL.
      44.6.2. Supplemental Procedures for Terminal Leave (Leave Type P). Terminal leave must also be
      posted to the MMPA at least 11 days before separation to be considered in the separation pay authori-
      zation issued by DJMS. If any leave other than terminal leave processes after posting of a terminal
      leave suspense, a management notice is created (under DROT input source ZP) to require the adjust-
      ment of the terminal leave, if necessary. In any event, the reenlistment and separations must verify
      MMPA posting of the terminal leave. Supplemental procedures are:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           733


     44.6.2.1. Maintain an AF Form 1486, Unit leave control log, when Part I of AF Form 988 is
     received for terminal leave (type P). Annotate the log with the date, leave authorization number
     issued, chargeable leave dates and the unit of assignment, as a minimum. Additional information
     may be entered in the remarks block, if desired. Process a leave start (SB01) transaction. (See
     Figure 44.8.) Attach Part I of the AF Form 988 to the Daily Transaction Listing (DTL). If sepa-
     ration date is within 2 weeks, notify the reenlistment and separation area.
     44.6.2.2. Part III of AF Form 988 is received only if member is hospitalized or returns to duty
     before separation. Input a leave cancellation (SB06) transaction (Figure 44.11.) to cancel termi-
     nal leave. Input a leave report (SB03) transaction (Figure 44.9. and Figure 44.10.) for ordinary
     leave (type A) for the period of leave actually used. Notify the reenlistment and separations area.
     Attach AF Form 988 to Daily Transmission Listing. If member desires to revert back to terminal
     leave, a new AF Form 988 is issued by the unit and it is processed as a new terminal leave with a
     cross-reference to the initial leave.
  44.6.3. Supplemental Procedures for Emergency Leave:
     44.6.3.1. Supplemental procedures for emergency with travel at government expense using AF
     Form 972 are in AFI 65-114.
     44.6.3.2. If the member is on ordinary leave, the leave converts to emergency leave only if the sit-
     uation cannot be resolved during the balance of the ordinary leave period. If converted, the FSO
     receives Part III from the leave approving authority and inputs a leave correction (SB05) transac-
     tion. (See Figure 44.9.) The date stop is the day before the date the commander authorized the
     conversion to emergency leave. A new Part I is issued by the commander for the emergency
     leave. If converted, the member is not authorized government funded travel to return to the duty
     station.
  44.6.4. Supplemental Procedures for Appellate Review Leave, Type R:
     44.6.4.1. Appellate review leave (type R) is taken when a member has been court-martialed and
     sentenced to an unsuspended dismissal, dishonorable discharge, or bad conduct discharge. These
     sentences require a review by the Court of Military Review. Members are required to take leave
     pending completion of the appellate review process. This leave is referred to as appellate review
     leave and should be processed as follows:
         44.6.4.1.1. The FSO assigns the leave authorization number for appellate review leaves and
         records those leaves on an FSO maintained AF Form 1486. The FSO does not have to receive
         an AF Form 988 to assign a leave authorization number. Leave authorization numbers are not
         issued more than 30 days before the leave effective date.
         44.6.4.1.2. The leave start (SB01) transaction automatically stops all allotments with the prior
         month effective date and generates a permanent pay suppression. The leave start transaction
         will process with up to 300 days of leave granted. The start transaction places the member in
         a suspended (T-status type 9 Chapter 52) status.
         44.6.4.1.3. A U503 management notice is issued, during month-end restructure, approxi-
         mately 30 days prior to the leave expiration date. The FSO verifies with the legal office that
         the member is still on appellate review leave. If so and the 300 days of granted leave has or is
         about to expire, process a leave stop (SB02) transaction and a new leave start (SB01) transac-
         tion.
734                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      44.6.4.1.4. A member directed to take appellate review leave on or after 19 January 1982, may
      either receive a lump sum payment for any accrued leave balance, and remain in an unpaid
      excess leave status until the end of the review, or may receive normal pay and allowances until
      the accrued leave is used and then continue in an unpaid excess leave status until the review is
      completed.
      44.6.4.1.5. If the member requests a lump-sum payment for the accrued leave, process the
      start leave transaction (SB01) and the payment (PK03) transaction immediately to prevent
      overpayment to the member. When calculating the payment amount, make sure all debts have
      been deducted to the extent available from the accrued leave settlement. Court martial forfei-
      tures will accrue through the date before the start of appellate leave. Send a message to
      DFAS-DE/FJP in the following format within 3 days of the payment:

         SUBJECT: Payment of Appellate Leave (days paid).
                 - Member's name
                 - Member's SSAN
                 - Effective date of leave
                 - Number of days granted
                 - Leave authorization number
                 - Amount of payment, date of payment, ADSN, and voucher number.
                 - Future mailing address (street, city, state and ZIP code)
                 - Name and telephone of FSO's contact point


      44.6.4.1.6. If the member requests normal pay and allowances during the period of accrued
      leave, and then continues on unpaid excess leave, do the following to prevent overpayment to
      the member:
         44.6.4.1.6.1. If the member is a central payee, input a permanent suppression (LH02)
         transaction (Chapter 38). If the member is a local payee, permanently suppress the pay by
         placing the person in a suspended (ST) status (Chapter 81).
         44.6.4.1.6.2. Administratively stop all allotments (Chapter 57).
         44.6.4.1.6.3. Process the leave start (SB01) transaction.
         44.6.4.1.6.4. Manually, prepare payments for these individuals on paydays or the appro-
         priate date payment due. Example: An individual directed to go on appellate review leave
         has an accrued leave balance of 20 days. The member is in confinement and receiving no
         pay and is released from confinement 5 Mar 1992. The member is paid for 11 days on 15
         Mar 1992 for the period 5 Mar 1992 through 15 Mar 1992, and another payment for 9 days
         on 24 Mar 1983 for the period 16 Mar 1992 through 24 Mar 1992. These amounts accrue
         manually computed just as you would for an accession. This example is for an individual
         previously in a non-pay status. If this member was previously in a pay status, a payment is
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          735


              made on 15 Mar 1992 less all appropriate deductions and collections and 9 days on 24 Mar
              1992 for the period 16 Mar 1992 through 24 Mar 1992.
NOTE: Include any leave accrual when computing the number of days to pay a member electing to
receive pay and allowances during the period of accrued leave. Members directed to go on appellate
review leave do not accrue leave while using accrued leave, and do not accrue leave while on excess
leave.
              44.6.4.1.6.5. Prepare a management case file for each member on appellate review leave
              serviced by your ADSN. Keep in close contact with the MPF, unit, and Judge Advocate
              Office to keep current on the member's status. Documents maintained in these files are:
              Court-Martial orders, AF Form 2098, duty status changes (if available), paperwork direct-
              ing payment or leave settlement option, and copies of initial and subsequent AF Forms
              988. FSO’s use Sysout Archive and Retrieval (SAR) software to retrieve report
              FA0940MJEA (mode JFAREG). This listing includes individuals on appellate review
              leave and is used to verify that a Case Management System (CMS) case has been estab-
              lished or to establish one if not already done. A listing received from DFAS-DE showing
              individuals on appellate review leave assigned to your ADSN should be used to verify that
              a management case file has been established or to establish one if not already done. This
              listing may also be used to aid in monitoring expired leaves which require renewal.
NOTE: If the member was required to take appellate leave under Article 76A, UCMJ, and the sentence
by court-martial to dismissal or dishonorable or bad conduct discharge is set aside or disapproved, then
leave accrues, and pay and allowances for the period of leave charged as excess leave must be paid. The
amount of pay and allowances accrued under DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 1, paragraph 0103, shall be
reduced by the total amount of income from wages, salaries, tips, other personal service income, unem-
ployment compensation, and public assistance benefits from any government agency during the period
the member is deemed to have accrued pay and allowances. If no statement of earnings is available at the
time DFAS-DE is computing the amount of pay the member is due, a letter will be forwarded to the mem-
ber by DFAS-JMCBD/DE.
   44.6.5. Procedures for Air Force Educational Leave of Absence Program:
       44.6.5.1. Entitlement: A member in this educational leave status (AFLEA) is entitled to basic pay
       only. Member is not entitled to receive BAH, BAS, or any other pay and allowance to which
       member might otherwise be entitled for period of leave of absence. (reference DoDFMR Volume
       7A, Table 1-11).
       44.6.5.2. Processing: Code the AF Form 988 as a type 1 (educational leave of absence). Since the
       existing type 1 does not adjust any entitlements, the FSO is required to complete DD Form 114
       (military pay order) to stop all entitlements except basic pay for the period of the leave.
   44.6.6. Procedures for Adoption Leave:
       44.6.6.1. Members adopting a qualifying child are entitled to take non-chargeable leave for up to
       21 days in a calendar year to be used in connection with the adoption.
           44.6.6.1.1. Adoption leave may be used in conjunction with ordinary leave.
           44.6.6.1.2. Use “permissive temporary duty (PTDY)” to designate adoption leave.
736                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             44.6.6.1.3. Members submit the request for adoption leave using AF Form 988 indicating
             PTDY and including the statement: “Adoption leave per AFI 36-3003”.
             44.6.6.1.4. Members who used ordinary leave, on or after 1 Jan 06, for adoption purposes
             must work with the Commander’s Support Staff (CSS) to correct the leave.
         44.6.6.2. Only one member of a member-to-member couple is authorized to take this adoption
         leave. Monitor the situation to ensure this is the case.
         44.6.6.3. Monitor the adoption leave to ensure that no more than 21 days is used in a calendar
         year.

44.7. Leave Accrual, etc., for Members Assigned to Hostile Fire Areas:
      44.7.1. Members assigned to hostile fire areas for four or more consecutive months, or have been
      approved for special leave accrual through personnel channels as set forth in AFI 36-3003, are
      allowed to carry forward more than 60 days of leave from one fiscal year to the next.
      44.7.2. This is done for three full fiscal years after departure from the combat zone but is subject to
      the following limitations:
         44.7.2.1. Member can accrue up to 120 days leave in accordance with AFI 36-3003. After depart-
         ing the combat zone the limit is the balance as of departure from the combat zone. (Data element
         CZ-CON from the BS entry, or the current month balance from the BR entry.)
         44.7.2.2. Whenever a member takes leave, the balance as of the end of the leave is compared to
         the balance as of departure. If the balance as of the end of the leave is less than the balance as of
         departure, the balance as of the end of the leave becomes the new maximum. (See Figure 44.5.)

44.8. Input:
      44.8.1. Format IDs and Action Codes For Leave Transactions. Transactions are identified by format
      ID and action code. The letters SB designate a leave transaction and the numbers designate the action.
      44.8.2. When starting a leave, use the format ID and action code SB01. (See Figure 44.8.)
      44.8.3. When stopping a leave, use the format ID and action code SB02. (See Figure 44.9. and Fig-
      ure 44.10.) Use a leave stop transaction only if the number of days taken was different than the num-
      ber of days input in the SB01.
      44.8.4. When reporting a leave, use the format ID and action code SB03. (See Figure 44.9. and Fig-
      ure 44.10.) Use a leave report transaction if the leave start was never input and the leave has been
      completed.
      44.8.5. When correcting a leave, use the format ID and action code SB05. (See Figure 44.9.) When
      a leave is corrected, the system updates the NB suspense entry and the transaction on recycle, or the
      system generates a SB06 to cancel the original and a SB03 to report the correct leave.
      44.8.6. When canceling a leave, use the format ID and action code SB06 (Figure 44.11.). When a
      leave is canceled, the system deletes the NB suspense entry and the transaction on recycle or sends the
      transaction to the MMPA if the leave was already reported to the MMPA. DJMS MMPA. DJMS
      reverses any MMPA adjustments caused by the original leave.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         737


  44.8.7. The leave transaction shows the completed period of leave, or the open period of leave if the
  leave is excess, terminal, or appellate review. The status of the leave entry can be determined by
  checking the ENTRY-OPEN-CLOSD indicator in the SB entry. The following codes are used:


             1-- Departed on leave. (Indicates an open leave entry.)


             2-- Extended leave period one.


             3-- Extended leave period twice.


             4-- Extended leave period three times.


             A-- Leave period closed without an extension.


             B-- Leave period extended once and closed.


             C-- Leave period extended twice and closed.


             D-- Leave period extended three times and closed.


  44.8.8. Leave Types. (Not travel-related.)


                TYPE                                   CODE      CHARGEABLE
                Ordinary                               A         Yes
                Emergency                              D         Yes
                Reenlistment                           E         Yes
                Sick or Convalescent                   F         No
                Special                                H         No
                Terminal                               P         Yes
                Awaiting Appellate Review              R         Yes
                Permissive TDY                         T         No
                Educational Leave of Absence           1         No
                Recruiter Assistance Program           Y         No
738                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      44.8.9. Travel generated leave types are:


                   TYPE                                      CODE      CHARGEABLE
                   Delay En Route/TDY (note 1)               B         Yes
                   Delay En Route/PCS, accession travel      I         Yes
                   (note 1)
                   Graduation (note 2)                       J         No
                   Delay En Route/PCS Training Travel        L         Yes
                   Delay En Route/PCS Operations Travel      M         Yes
                   Delay En Route/PCS Rotation Travel        N         Yes
                   Delay En Route/PCS Travel of              O         Yes
                   Organized Units

NOTES:
     1. The project cited in the appropriation of travel orders can be identified for application of per-
        manent change of station (PCS) type. (See DFAS-DER 7010-3, figure 32-1.)
         2. Graduation leave may be recorded on AF Form 985.

44.9. LeaveWeb. LeaveWeb (LW) is an air force system that automates the method of requesting and
processing leave (in lieu of using the hard copy AF Form 988). Under LeaveWeb the member requests
leave which generates an email to his or her supervisor. The supervisor approves or disapproves the leave
and if approved, sends the leave information to the unit leave clerk to validate. Once validated the leave
is sent electronically to finance. The following subparagraphs provide detailed information on various
LeaveWeb processes.
      44.9.1. FSO Daily Processes:
         44.9.1.1. Export the JDC file from LeaveWeb and transmit it to DFAS for processing. Use the
         naming convention yymmdd.JDC in LW to facilitate future research if necessary.
         44.9.1.2. Create and print the JDC sign report and attach it to a certified DD 114.
             44.9.1.2.1. Use this to support the transactions on the document transmittal listing (DTL).
             44.9.1.2.2. Transactions input by other than the requesting individual must be supported with
             a hard copy AF Form 988 (provided by the unit) and signed by the member requesting the
             leave. These transactions include permissive TDY, terminal leave, etc.
         44.9.1.3. Download the daily register of transactions from DFAS on a daily basis.
             44.9.1.3.1. This must be accomplished whether or not daily LW cycles were transmitted to
             DFAS.
             44.9.1.3.2. Use ears to create the DROT file to import into LW and use the naming convention
             mm##upd.drt.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            739


            44.9.1.3.2.1. This facilitates research into DROT history updates and provides an avenue
            to re-import DROTS suspected of not fully processing.
     44.9.1.4. Rejected leave transactions.
        44.9.1.4.1. Must be researched, corrected and input into DJMS manually, re-processed leave
        transactions must be manually reconciled in LW after posted to DJMS.
  44.9.2. FSO weekly processes:
     44.9.2.1. Review un-reconciled transactions:
        44.9.2.1.1. To determine the number of un-reconciled transactions in LW:
            44.9.2.1.1.1. Go to site statistics under “system admin”. Review the total leaves, and the
            number un-reconciled.
                44.9.2.1.1.1.1. with the exception of the period from EOM cutoff to the first update of
                the following month only one-two days of leave transactions should be in this status.
            44.9.2.1.1.2. to query un-reconciled leaves in the system:
                44.9.2.1.1.2.1. go to “leave query history”, change the time period to an extended
                period of time (ex. Jan 2002 - current day), select “un-reconciled leaves” and then
                “query”.
        44.9.2.1.2. once the un-reconciled transactions are identified:
            44.9.2.1.2.1. contact the unit administrator for any leaves in r0, r1 or r2 status and require
            appropriate action be taken.
            44.9.2.1.2.2. review the details for each leave in r3 status. Determine why the transaction
            did not reconcile.
                44.9.2.1.2.2.1. verify if the return from leave was no change, a change in the leave
                days, or the leave was canceled.
            44.9.2.1.2.3. compare the transaction in LW to the leave transaction in DJMS and if the
            transaction processed correctly note the processing cycle in the remarks block in LW, then
            click “reconcile” at the bottom of the screen and then click “run query” at the top of the
            transaction and move to the next transaction.
                44.9.2.1.2.3.1. if the transaction has not processed in DJMS determine the cause and if
                appropriate prepare a DD-114 as the source document and manually process the trans-
                action.
                    44.9.2.1.2.3.1.1. once this transaction posts in DJMS manually reconcile the trans-
                    action in LW (if necessary).
  44.9.3. FSO monthly processes:
     44.9.3.1. Pull the latest LBL when available using “offline” and upload it into LW.
        44.9.3.1.1. Notify all orderly rooms via e-mail or the LW messaging system to identify any
        necessary changes to personnel assigned to their unit.
740                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             44.9.3.1.2. Review all accounts assigned to the @@ (undetermined) unit of assignment.
             Work with MPF, units, and processing teams to have these accounts assigned to the correct
             unit.
                44.9.3.1.2.1. Process sc04 and/or have units process LG04 transactions to assign person-
                nel to their appropriate unit in DJMS, JLEF and LW.
      44.9.4. Quality Examinations (GE) and LeaveWeb: the procedures outlined in 44.9.2.1. must be fol-
      lowed in order to have an effective leave program. However, checks and balances are used to assure
      adherence to procedures and to the integrity of the LW system. These checks and balances are the
      responsibility of quality examinations area.
         44.9.4.1. Metrics: the primary monitoring metric is the number of un-reconciled leaves in LW.
         The system pulls this metric each night and can be viewed by clicking on “site statistics” under the
         system administrator tab in LW. Focus on the number of un-reconciled transactions instead of the
         percentage of total transactions. With the exception of the period from EOM cutoff to the first
         update of the following month only one-two days of leave transactions should be in the un-recon-
         ciled status. As a minimum the LW finance administrator should review this weekly and follow
         the instructions in 44.9.2.1. to reconcile aged transactions.
      44.9.5. Reports: LW has the following reports that can be used by either the LW administrator or by
      GE to monitor the use of the system and to ensure controls are being followed:
         44.9.5.1. Daily Transaction Processing Report, JDC Log, and DROT Log (general reporting): as
         outlined in 44.9.2.1., these reports should be used to ensure all JDC files are transmitted to DFAS
         and that corresponding DROTS are uploaded into LW daily. By reviewing the “run date” for each
         JDC cycle and checking which DROTS have been imported it is possible to determine whether or
         not the system is being maintained on a daily basis.
         44.9.5.2. Manual Reconciliation Report (general reporting): this report lists the transactions that
         were reconciled using interfaces from DFAS or manually reconciled. By reviewing a sampling of
         this report it is possible to determine if leaves were posted against DJMS as required or if the
         integrity of the system is being breached.
         44.9.5.3. Successive Leaves (general reporting): While leave is a commanders program and FM
         is not responsible to “police” leaves, LW provides a tool to identify potential inappropriate use of
         the leave entitlement. The report for successive leaves identifies leave transactions which are sep-
         arated by only one to two days and appear to bridge a time off such as successive Monday-Friday
         leaves. The recommended use of this report is to periodically pull this report and forward it to the
         unit commanders. The commander can then determine the appropriateness of these transactions
         and take appropriate action.
         44.9.5.4. Leave Balance Listing: QA should review that portion of the LBL for individuals
         assigned to the @@ unit of assignment. Personnel assigned to this unit are not properly assigned
         to an organization on the LBL that was imported from DJMS. These individuals are not able to
         use LW for leave processing and should be assigned to their correct units of assignment by either
         processing an SC04 or by the units processing an LG04 via the personnel system. For bases using
         LeaveWeb, upload the leave balance listing and notify the orderly room of this action.
      44.9.6. Other Uses of LW: LeaveWeb is a leave tracking, reporting and reconciliation system. How-
      ever, LW can also be used as a tool to help in other areas as well.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          741


     44.9.6.1. Separations: Via LW, the separations clerk can request a list of all leave taken by an
     individual during a period of time. This can be used to identify any leaves requested and not
     charged in DJMS as well as to validate the final leave balance at separation.
     44.9.6.2. Management Tool: LW can be used to identify leave taken by an individual who is sub-
     ject to PRA audit. By querying an individual’s record a complete history of leaves requested by
     individual or unit can be generated for review.
     44.9.6.3. Leave Recall Roster: LW can be used to identify those members currently on leave and
     provide necessary information to contact these individuals and recall them to duty. The unit has
     the capacity under LW to pull this information for personnel assigned to their unit. Finance can
     pull this information for the entire installation. This information is only as good as the informa-
     tion input by the member when requesting leave.
  44.9.7. Figure 44.12. through Figure 44.24. provide detailed guidance on the utilization of the LW
  system:
     44.9.7.1. Figure 44.12.: Leave Approving Official Instructions
     44.9.7.2. Figure 44.13.: Daily Unit LW Administrator Instructions
     44.9.7.3. Figure 44.14.: Other Unit LW Administrator Instructions
     44.9.7.4. Figure 44.15.: Leave Status Information
     44.9.7.5. Figure 44.16.: LW Troubleshooting Instructions
     44.9.7.6. Figure 44.17.: Uploading DROTS Into LW Instructions
     44.9.7.7. Figure 44.18.: Adding Members To LW Instructions
     44.9.7.8. Figure 44.19.: Building A Unit In LW Instructions
     44.9.7.9. Figure 44.20.: Building A Unit Admin In LW Instructions
     44.9.7.10. Figure 44.21.: Building Unit Emails Instructions
     44.9.7.11. Figure 44.22.: Changing Member’s Dos In LW Instructions
     44.9.7.12. Figure 44.23.: Changing A Member’s Email Address In LW Instructions
     44.9.7.13. Figure 44.24.: Changing LW Password Instructions.”
742                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.1. AF Form 1486, Unit Leave Control Log.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                               743


Figure 44.2. AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization.
744                                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.3. LeaveWeb (LW) Unit Leave and Input Source Inspection Checklist.


LeaveWeb (LW) Unit Leave and Input Source Inspection Checklist
       Note: All references pertain to DFAS-DEM 7073-2, Chapter 7 unless otherwise specified.
                                             Item                                          Yes    No     N/A
1. Does unit have access to current AFI 36-3003 and DFAS-DEM 7073-2?
2. Are documents, except leaves, transmitted to the FSO daily using AF Form
   1373, MPO Document Control Log Transmittal (para 1-5).
3. Has the commander designated a primary and alternate leave monitor in
   writing? (para 7.1.1.1)
4. Has finance trained the unit leave monitor (ULM) and alternates on their
   roles and responsibilities in managing the leave program and on the use of
   LeaveWeb (LW) prior to issuing them unit administration access to LW?
   (DFAS-DEM 7073-1, para 4.3.1)
   A. Is the ULM instructed not to share unit ID’s and passwords?
      (AFI 33-223, para 3.2)
   B. Is the ULM briefed to inform the FSO when they leave the unit or are no
      longer assigned as the ULM?
5. Does the ULM access LW daily to validate leave requests submitted by the
   Member and approved by an authorized approving official? (para 7.1.1)
   A. Are leave requests monitored to ensure that ordinary leaves are approved
      At no lower level than the first-line supervisor? (AFI 36-3003, para 4.2.1)
   B. Is the leave request reviewed to ensure that the leave request contains
      appropriate emergency contact information?
   C. Are comments provided in the appropriate blocks if leaves are rejected to
      the member and approving official?
6. Are leave requests pending in pending AO approval status submitted to the
   ULM within one day after requested by member?
7. Are return leave requests submitted to the approving official by the member
   within one day after return from leave?
8. Are all other leaves, convalescent, PTDY, emergency, etc., submitted on AF
   Form 988 to a level no lower than squadron section commander, deputies, or
   equivalents? (AFI 36-3003, para 4.2)
   A. Are other than ordinary leaves input by the ULM into LW after approval
      by the appropriate commander and as possible NLT one day prior to the
      start date of leave?
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     745


                                          Item                                    Yes   No   N/A
   B. Are manual leave requests (hard-copy AF Form 988, part 1) annotated
      with “processed via LW” and forwarded to the FSO to be included in
      document submission?
   C. When members return from other than ordinary leave is follow-up done to
      ensure that the part III is received one day after scheduled return from
      leave and leaves with “no change” retained until the leave block is
      certified closed by the unit commander or designee?
   D. Are the (return) manual leave requests which require changes or
      cancellations (hard copy AF Form 988 part III) processed in LW NLT one
      day after receipt and annotated with “processed via LeaveWeb” and then
      forwarded to the FSO for document submission?
9. Does the ULM review the AF Form 1486 weekly in LW to ensure that all
   transactions have been reconciled? (para 7.1.3.6.1)
   A. Is documented follow-up conducted with the FSO to determine the status
      of un-reconciled or un-processed leaves NLT 6 workdays after the trans-
      actions were validated by the ULM?
10. Does the Commander or designated representative (may not be the ULM)
    maintain and certify using “Memorandum for: Unit Leave Monitor”
    (see Figure 44.25.).
    A. Does the unit Commander or designated representative (not the ULM)
       review the AF Form 1486 NLT every 45 days regardless of whether or
       not all leave transactions have been reconciled?
    B. When a series of leave transactions have been completed and reconciled,
       have these leave numbers been annotated on a memorandum (Figure
       44-25) by the Commander or designated representative (other than the
       unit leave monitor) and are the applicable AF Forms 1486 attached to the
       memorandum and retained for supporting documentation?
11. Does the ULM review the leave balance listing (LBL) in LW NLT monthly
    and compared this to appropriate manpower listings to identify additions
    and/or deletions to the LBL? Are these changes communicated to the FSO
    in writing to make the appropriate changes? (para 7.1.1.2.)
12. Are unit personnel aware that leave requests which result in a member
    having a negative leave balance over 30 days must be approved by HQ
    AFPC/DPFSC? (AFI 36-3000 para 6.3.3.)
746                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                             Item                                           Yes        No         N/A
13. Are unit personnel aware of the procedures for processing permissive TDY
      “leave”? Are they aware two leave forms are required if leave is taken in
      conjunction with permissive TDY? (para 7.15.)
14. Are unit personnel aware that successive Monday thru Friday leaves or
      leaves that bridge normal days off will not be approved except under
      emergency or unusual circumstances as determined by the unit commander?
      (AFI 36-3000, para 6.1.7 and 6.10)
      A. Is the commander aware of the capability of LW to generate a report of
         “bridging” leaves and is this report run periodically to validate
         adherence to directives?
15. Is the unit retaining part III for members currently in appellate review leave
      status? (para 7.11.2.5.)
16. Is the unit retaining part III for members currently on terminal leave and
      then disposing of them unless the member returns from leave early?
      (para 7.13.)
NOTE: The remainder of this checklist is to be used for inspecting leave programs for units not using LeaveWeb. All
references pertain to DFAS-DEM 7073-2, Chapter 7 unless otherwise specified.
17. Does unit have access to current versions of AFI 36-3003 and DFAS-DEM
      7073-2.
18. Are documents, except leaves, transmitted to the FSO daily using AF Form
      1373, MPO Document Control Log-Transmittal? (para 1.5.)
19. Has the commander designated a primary and alternate leave monitor in
      writing? (para 7.1.1.1)
20. Has finance trained the unit leave monitor (ULM) and alternates on their
      roles and responsibilities in managing the leave program?
      (DFAS-DEM 7073-1, para 4.3.1)
      A. Is the ULM briefed to inform the FSO when they leave the unit or are
         no longer assigned as the ULM?
21. Are unit personnel aware that leave requests which result in a member
      having a negative leave balance over 30 days must be approved by HQ
      AFPC/DPFSC? (AFI 36-3003 para 6.3.3)
22. Does the unit ensure leave numbers are not issued more than 30 days before
      the leave effective date? (para 7.1.3.6.1.1)
23. Are unit personnel aware leave authorization numbers must be entered on
      the leave form prior to being signed by the leave approval authority?
      (para 7.1.2.7.1)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       747


                                           Item                                     Yes   No   N/A
24. Are other than ordinary leaves approved by the unit commander, squadron
    section commander, or equivalent only? (para 7.1.2.1)
25. Are supervisors/unit commanders forwarding part 1 of the leave form to the
    FSO after assignment of leave numbers and approval? Part I may not be
    given to the unit leave clerk to submit to the FSO. (para 7.1.2.1)
26. Is AF Form 1486, Unit Leave Control Log, properly prepared and
    maintained. (para 7.1.3.6.1 and Figure 7.2.)
27. Is AF Form 988, part III, indicating “no change” retained by the unit for
    attachment to the completed block assignment package? (para 7.1.3.5.3)
28. Is part III for leaves requiring correction or cancellation annotated on AF
    Form 1486 and immediately sent to the FSO for processing?
    (para 7.1.3.5.3)
29. Is the unit following up with the supervisor on part I of leaves which do not
    appear on the DROT within 6 workdays after the leave authorization
    number was issued? (para 7.1.3.6.1.4.1)
30. Is the unit following up with the FSO on part III of leaves which do not
    appear on the DROT within 6 workdays after the leave authorization
    number was issued? (para 7.1.3.6.1.4.1)
31. Is AF Form 1134, Unit Leave Numbers -- Block Assignments, properly
    maintained by the unit commander or designated representative (not the
    ULM or alternate)?
32. Are block assignments verified against the DROTS by the unit commander
    or designee (not the ULM or alternate) at least every 45 days whether or not
    the block assignment has been completed? (para 7.1.3.7.2)
33. Are parts III destroyed and AF Form 1486S retained according to Air Force
     Records Disposition Schedule, after the unit commander or representative
    Has certified closure of the leave block on AF Form 1134?
34. Is the unit continuing the same series of leave numbers, unless directed by
    the FSO to begin a new series of leaves approved on or after October?
    (para 7.3.2)
35. Is the unit retaining part III of AF Form 988 for members currently in an
    appellate review leave status? (para 7.14.)
36. Is the unit retaining part III of AF Form 988 for members currently on
    terminal leave and then properly disposing of them unless the member
    returns early? (para 7.14.)
748                                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            Item                                           Yes    No     N/A
37. Are unit leave approving authorities aware the statement “member
      separating (date)” must be entered on top of AF Form 988 if leave is within
      30 days of separation or retirement? (para 7.14.)
38. Are unit personnel aware of the procedures for processing permissive TDY
      “leave”? Are they aware two leave forms are required if leave is taken in
      conjunction with permissive TDY? (para 7.15.)
39. Are unit personnel aware that successive Monday thru Friday leaves or
      leaves that bridge normal days off will not be approved except under
      emergency or unusual circumstances as determined by the unit
      commander? (AFI 36-3003, para 6.1.7 and 6.10)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               749


Figure 44.4. General Summary of Leave Balance Entry.
                      GENERAL SUMMARY OF LEAVE BALANCE ENTRY


                                            FORMAT ID BR


1.     The open BR leave balance entry shows the member's leave balance to date for the current fiscal
year (FY). This entry is updated by month-end restructure to show leave accrual through the end of the
next month and is updated as leave transactions are processed. The open BR entry is moved to history and
a new open BR entry is created by FY end processing and reenlistment processing. This entry is also
closed and moved to history by final separation processing.


2.     The BR leave balance entry is made up of the following data items:
       a.   CZ-BAL-INDCTR (combat zone balance indicator):
            1 = member not in a combat zone.
            2 = member is a combat zone.
       b. BF-PRIOR-FY (balance forwarded prior fiscal year) shows leave balance brought forward
from a prior FY or prior enlistment.
         c. ERND-FY (earned current fiscal year) shows the leave earned during the current FY.
Month-end restructure adds an accrual of 2.5 days of leave to this item each month. If the member sepa-
rates, the computer will prorate the accrual for the month of separation from the first of the month to the
date of separation. If the member enters a status that prohibits accrual of leave, status processing automat-
ically adjusts accrual.
       d. USED-FY (used current fiscal year) shows all earned and advanced leave days taken and
charged against the members leave account during the current FY. Excess leave is not included in this
total.
      e. BAL-CM (balance current month) reflects the leave balance as of the end of the current
month. This item is the total of BF-PRIOR-FY plus ERND-FY minus USED-FY.
        f. NOT-ACRD-FY (not accrued current fiscal year) shows the number of days leave not accrued
because the member was in a status (AWOL, confinement, excess leave, etc.) that does not allow accrual
of leave. The non-accrual is prorated on the same basis a leave is accrued and is automatically computed
based on processing of the status transaction.
       g. LOST-DAYS-CFY (lost days current fiscal year) shows the number of days for the current
FY that the member was in a status, other than excess leave, that did not allow for the accrual of leave.
     h. XCS-FY (excess current fiscal year) shows the number of days during the current FY that the
member was charged excess leave.
       i. LOST shows the number of days of leave that the member lost at the end of the FY. FY
year-end processing reduces the current month leave balance over 60 days to 60 and shows the days over
750                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


60 as lost. Leave transactions applicable to the previous FY but processed after the close of the FY are
posted against any days lost until that balance is reduced to zero, then against the current month balance.
        j. SETLMNT (settlement) shows what election the member made for sale of leave upon separa-
tion/reenlistment, or first extension. Codes are as follow:
               1 = Sold all leave.
               2 = Carried leave forward.
               3 = Carried leave forward to another branch of service.
               4 = Excess leave collection at time of separation.
               5 = Unsettled leave balance-character of discharge not determined.
               6 = Settlement unauthorized-member separated under conditions precluding payment.
               7 = Split leave-member carried some leave forward and sold remainder but less than 60
                   days.
               8 = Sold 60 days.
               9 = Member accessed-prior leave settlement is in doubt.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               751


Figure 44.5. General Summary of Hostile Fire Pay, CZ Leave Balance Processing.
                          GENERAL SUMMARY OF HOSTILE FIRE PAY,
                                CZ LEAVE BALANCE PROCESSING


                                             FORMAT ID BS


1.       When a member serves 120 or more consecutive days in a combat zone (or has been approved for
special leave accrual through personnel channels, as set forth in AFI 36-3003), the member is allowed to
carry forward more than 60 days leave from one fiscal year (FY) to the next. This can be done for three
full fiscal years after departure from the combat zone but is subject to the following limitations:


        a. Unless the member is missing in action, the number of days that a member can carry over at the
end of the fiscal year is 120.


         b. After departing the combat zone, the limit is the balance as of the date of departure from the
combat zone, or the current month leave balance, whichever is less. Whenever a member takes leave, the
balance as of the end of the leave is compared to the balance as of departure. If the balance as of the end
of the leave is less than the balance as of departure, the balance as of the end of the leave becomes the new
maximum.


2.     Application of the BS entry is as follows:


       a. When the member arrives in the combat zone, a BS01 or 2301 entry is input:


                (1) If an open BS entry is present, and no departure is indicated in the open BS entry, the
transaction is rejected. (The prior period in the combat zone must be resolved.)


                (2) An open BS entry is established. The arrival date is set, the departure date is zero
filled, and the CZ-CON (running balance for combat zone) is set to match the open BR leave balance.


       b. When the member departs the combat zone, either a BS02 or 2302 entry is input:


               (1) The departure date is set in the BS entry and the leave balance as of departure is set in
the CZ-CON.
752                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                      (a) If the period between the arrival and departure date (inclusive) is less than four
months, the BS entry is closed. (The period is not long enough to qualify.)


                       (b) If the member's leave balance as of the departure date is less than 60.5 days,
the BS entry is closed (no extra leave to be saved).


                       (c) If neither of the above applies, the BS entry remains open. A future date is set
to close the BS entry at the end of the third full fiscal year after the departure date. (This is the
FY-EXPRTN-DATE in the BS entry.)


       c. Processing of leave (SB02 or SB03):


                 (1) If the departure date in the BS entry is zero, the CZ-CON is set to match the current
leave balance.


              (2) If the departure date in the BS entry is present, the balance as of the last day of leave
is compared to the CZ-CON in the BS entry:


                        (a) If the balance as of the end of the leave is greater than or equal to the CZ-CON,
nothing happens.


                       (b) If the balance as of the end of the leave is less than the CZ-CON, the CZ-CON
is reduced to the balance as of the end of the leave. This becomes the new maximum carryover. If the
new CZ-CON is less than 60.5 days, the BS entry is closed since the member is deemed to have used the
extra leave accrued in the combat zone.


1.     DATE OF REQUEST: Enter day, month, year (for example, 1 June 19XX).
3.     SSN: Must be present.
4.     NAME: Must be present.
5.     GRADE: Must be present.
6.     CURRENT LEAVE BALANCE: Enter leave balance shown on latest LES.
6a.    DOS: Must be present.
7.     RECOMMEND CONVALESCENT LEAVE: Use if convalescent leave is recommended.
8.     TYPE OF LEAVE: Check appropriate box.
9.     NO DAYS REQUESTED: Must be present.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                753


10.    LEAVE AUTH NO: Must be present.
11.    FIRST DAY/TIME OF LV STATUS: Must be present (for example, 14 June
       19XX/0001hrs).
12.    FIRST DAY OF CHARGEABLE LV: Enter first day of chargeable leave (for example, 20
       June 19XX).
13.    LAST DAY OF CHARGEABLE LV: Enter last day of chargeable leave (for example 20
       June 19XX).
14.    LEAVE AREA: Check appropriate box.
15.    EMERGENCY PHONE: Self-explanatory.
16.    LEAVE ADDRESS: Complete address must be present. Phone number must include area
       code.
17.    DUTY PHONE: Must be present.
18.    UNIT: Self-explanatory.
19.    DUTY SECTION: Self-explanatory.
20.    DUTY LOCATION: Self-explanatory.
21.    MEMBER'S SIGNATURE: Must be signed using ink.
22.    APPROVAL/DISAPPROVAL Block: Check appropriate block. Enter date of approval or
       disapproval. If approved, this will normally be the date the leave authorization number is
       obtained. If leave is approved within 14 days of leave start date, enter the date of approval.
       If leave is approved more than 14 days prior to leave start date, enter date leave authorization
       number is obtained.
23.    SUPERVISOR'S TYPED/PRINTED NAME AND GRADE: Self-explanatory.
24.    SUPERVISOR'S DUTY PHONE: Must be present to aid AFO inquiries.
25.    SUPERVISOR'S SIGNATURE: Must be signed in ink by other than the individual
       requesting leave. (See note 1.)




NOTE 1: When leave approval is granted by message or letter, include DATE-TIME-GROUP and origin
of the message or date and origin of the letter.


NOTE 2: When correcting an erroneous entry, line through the erroneous data and initial. Correction
tape and white-out are not authorized.
754                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.6. Format to Start, Stop, or Report Hostile Fire/Combat Zone Leave Balance.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0BS01


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD ARRIVED IN COMBAT ZONE


      26-31      MUST BE ZEROS (GENERATE)


       32        MUST EQUAL 3 (GENERATE)
                 CENTRAL SITE ONLY: INPUT MAY BE 1, 2 OR 3


       1-5       0BS02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      MUST BE ZEROS (GENERATE)


      26-31      YYMMDD DEPARTED COMBAT ZONE


       1-5       0BS03


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD ARRIVED IN COMBAT ZONE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                               755


CHARACTER                     DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   26-31  YYMMDD DEPARTED COMBAT ZONE


     32      MUST EQUAL 3 (GENERATE)
             CENTRAL SITE ONLY: INPUT MAY BE 1, 2 OR 3
756                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.7. Format to Correct or Cancel Hostile Fire/Combat Zone Leave Balance.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0BS05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      26-29     LEAVE BALANCE PRIOR TO ENTERING THE COMBAT ZONE. MUST END
                IN 0 OR 5


      30-33     LEAVE EARNED WHILE IN THE COMBAT ZONE. MUST END IN 0 OR 5


      34-37     TOTAL LEAVE BALANCE. MUST END IN 0 OR 5


       38       CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY (MUST EQUAL 1, 2 OR 3)


      41-46     YYMMDD ARRIVED IN COMBAT ZONE OR ZEROS


      47-52     YYMMDD DEPARTED COMBAT ZONE OR ZEROS


      53-54     DATE BS ENTRY IS SET TO BE CLOSED OR BLANK. DATE ENTERED
                EQUALS THE END OF THE THIRD FULL FISCAL YEAR AFTER THE
                DEPARTURE DATE


      55-60     YYMMDD OF LAST SB, BS, E6 OR 23 TRANSACTION OR BLANK


      61-62     FORMAT ID OF LAST TRANSACTION IDENTIFIED IN CP 55-60


       1-5      0BS06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                     757


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



    20-25    YYMMDD ARRIVED IN COMBAT ZONE


    26-31    YYMMDD DEPARTED COMBAT ZONE OR ZEROS (GENERATE)
758                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.8. Format to Start Leave.


 CHARACTER                                DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0SB01


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD LEAVE STARTS


       32        MILITARY LEAVE TYPE:
                 A--ORDINARY
                 C--MEDICAL (PCS GENERATED ONLY)
                 D--EMERGENCY
                 E--REENLISTMENT
                 F--SICK OR CONVALESCENT
                 H--SPECIAL
                 K--AWAITING PHYSICAL EXAMINATION (PCS GENERATED ONLY)
                 P--TERMINAL
                 R--AWAITING APPELLATE REVIEW
                 T--PERMISSIVE TDY


      33-35      NUMBER OF LEAVE DAYS GRANTED


       36        LEAVE AREA: 1, 2 OR 3


      37-43      LEAVE AUTHORIZATION NUMBER


      44-46      NUMBER OF DAYS EXCESS LEAVE GRANTED OR ZEROS IF NOT
                 APPLICABLE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              759


Figure 44.9. Format to Stop/Report/Correct Leave.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0SB02/03/05 OR ASB02/03 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD LEAVE STARTS


     26-31      YYMMDD LEAVE STOPS


       32       MILITARY LEAVE TYPE:
                A--ORDINARY
                C--MEDICAL (PCS GENERATED ONLY)
                D--EMERGENCY
                E--REENLISTMENT
                F--SICK OR CONVALESCENT
                H--SPECIAL
                K--AWAITING PHYSICAL EXAMINATION (PCS GENERATED ONLY)
                P--TERMINAL
                R--AWAITING APPELLATE REVIEW
                T--PERMISSIVE TDY


                FOR SB03 ONLY:
                B--DELAY ENROUTE/TDY
                I--DELAY ENROUTE/PCS, ACCESSION TRAVEL
                J--GRADUATION
                L--DELAY ENROUTE/PCS TRAINING TRAVEL
                M--DELAY ENROUTE/PCS OPERATIONS TRAVEL
                N--DELAY ENROUTE/PCS ROTATION TRAVEL
                O--DELAY ENROUTE/PCS TRAVEL OF ORGANIZED UNITS
760                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                       DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   33-35  NUMBER OF LEAVE DAYS GRANTED


       36     LEAVE AREA: 1, 2 OR 3


      37-43   LEAVE AUTHORIZATION NUMBER


      44-46   NUMBER OF DAYS EXCESS LEAVE GRANTED OR ZEROS IF NOT
              APPLICABLE


       1-5    1SB02/03 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25   YYMMDD DEPART PDS


      26-31   YYMMDD RETURN PDS


       32     QTR-DAY DEPART PDS: 0--GENERATED (SB02)


      33-38   YYMMDD DEPART DESIGNATED AREA OR ZEROS


      39-44   YYMMDD ARRIVED CONUS


       OR


      39-44   YYMMDD ARRIVED OS


      45-50   YYMMDD DEPARTED CONUS


       OR


      45-50   YYMMDD DEPARTED OS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                              761


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    51-56    YYMMDD RETURNED DESIGNATED AREA OR ZEROS


     57      QTR-DAY RETURN PDS: 0--GENERATED (SB02)
762                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.10. Format to Cancel Leave.


  CHARACTER                               DESCRIPTION
   POSITION


       1-5         0SB06


       6-14        SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19        FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25        YYMMDD LEAVE STARTS OR BLANK


      26-31        YYMMDD LEAVE STOPS OR BLANK


      37-43        LEAVE AUTHORIZATION NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                      763


Figure 44.11. AF 2519, All Purpose Checklist.
764                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.11. AF 2519, All Purpose Checklist (Continued).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              765


Figure 44.12. Leave Approving Official Instructions.



                       LEAVE APPROVING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS:


1.   EMAIL REQUEST RECEIVED FROM MEMBER REQUESTING LEAVE.
2.   CLICK ON THE HYPER LINK IN THE EMAIL.
3.   SELECT “APPROVE” OR “DISAPPROVE” AS APPROPRIATE.
     A. (THERE WILL BE EMAIL TRAFFIC FOR THE LEAVE APPROVING OFFICIAL AND THE MEMBER
       REQUESTING THE LEAVE WHICH SHOWS THE STATUS OF THE LEAVE REQUEST. ONCE THE
       LEAVE IS APPROVED, NO OTHER ACTION IS REQUIRED AT THIS TIME. OTHER EMAILS WILL
       BE FOR INFORMATION ONLY). IF A MEMBER DOES NOT HAVE EMAIL ACCESS THE MUST
       NOTE THE TRACKING NUMBER ON THEIR LEAVE REQUEST AND FURNISH THIS TO THEIR
       LEAVE APPROVING OFFICIAL. THE LEAVE APPROVER WOULD THEN LOG INTO LEAVEWEB
       AT HTTPS://LEAVE.”BASENAME”.AF.MIL/.
4.   SELECT A.O. BOX
5.   ENTER TRACKING NUMBER
6.   TYPE IN LAST NAME IN FIELD AS REQUIRED AND SELECT APPROVED/DISAPPROVED AS
     APPROPRIATE.
7.   IF THERE ARE ANY PROBLEMS THE APPROVER OR MEMBER IS TO CONTACT THE UNIT
     ORDERLY ROOM FOR ASSISTANCE.
766                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.13. Daily Unit LW Administrator Instructions.



                      DAILY UNIT LW ADMINISTRATOR INSTRUCTIONS:


1. LOG ONTO LEAVEWEB AT: HTTPS://LEAVE.”BASENAME”.AF.MIL/LEAVEWEB/LEAVEADMIN.ASP/.
2. SELECT LEAVE QUERY HISTORY.
  A. DEFAULT SETTINGS ARE FOR THE LAST 30 DAYS.
  B. LOOK BY REQUEST DATE.
  C. ANY LEAVES.
  D. SELECT QUERY.
  E. THE QUERY IS RETURNED FOR ALL TRANSACTIONS MATCHING THE REQUEST IN SPECIFIC
      STATUS:
      (1) Q0 - LEAVE HAS BEEN ENTERED BY MEMBER BUT NOT SUBMITTED.
         (A) NO ACTION REQUIRED.
      (2) Q1 - LEAVE SUBMITTED BY MEMBER BUT NOT YET APPROVED BY APPROVING OFFICIAL.
         (A) NO ACTION REQUIRED.
      (3) Q2 - LEAVE APPROVED, AWAITING VALIDATION FROM UNIT ADMIN.
         (A) REVIEW AND VALIDATE LEAVE IF APPROPRIATE.
      (4) R0 - MEMBER ON LEAVE; AWAITING SUBMISSION OF PART 3.
         (A) NO ACTION REQUIRED UNTIL AFTER THE MEMBER’S RETURN FROM LEAVE +5 DUTY
             DAYS. FOLLOW-UP WITH SUPERVISOR TO DETERMINE MEMBER’S STATUS.
      (5) R1 - MEMBER COMPLETES PART 3 AND WAITING FOR SUPERVISOR’S APPROVAL.
         (A) NO ACTION REQUIRED UNTIL AFTER THE MEMBER’S RETURN FROM LEAVE +5 DUTY
             DAYS. FOLLOW-UP WITH SUPERVISOR TO DETERMINE MEMBER’S STATUS.
      (6) R2 - RETURN FROM LEAVE -- HAS BEEN APPROVED, AWAITING VALIDATION FROM UNIT
             ADMIN.
      (7) R3 - LEAVE IS PENDING RECONCILIATION FROM DFAS.
         (A) FOLLOW-UP WITH FINANCE IF ON SYSTEM MORE THAN 15 DAYS AFTER THE LAST
             DAY OF LEAVE.
             1 ONLY REQUIRED IF THERE IS A CHANGE OR CANCELLATION OF LEAVE DATES.
      (8) R4 - LEAVE CLOSED.
      (9) Q9 - LEAVE CANCELED BEFORE VALIDATION.
      (10)R9 - LEAVE CANCELED AFTER IT WAS VALIDATED.
  F. SELECT THE LEAVE BY PRESSING THE TRACKING NUMBER.
  G. SELECT THE VALIDATE NUMBER AT THE BOTTOM RIGH OF THE SCREEN. THIS WILL ASSIGN
      A LEAVE NUMBER TO THE LEAVE.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     767


Figure 44.14. Other Unit LW Administrator Instructions.



                     OTHER UNIT LW ADMINISTRATOR INSTRUCTIONS:


1. UNIT ADMIN HAS CAPABILITY TO INPUT OTHER THAN ORDINARY LEAVE TYPES (I.E.,
  CONVALESCENT, PERMISSIVE).
  A. MEMBERS WILL BRING THE FORMS TO YOU FOR THIS TYPE OF LEAVE.
  B. AFTER REVIEW AND PROPER APPROVAL ENTER THEM INTO SYSTEM USING THE NEW
     MANUAL REQUEST.
  C. THE TRANSACTION WILL FLOW THROUGH SYSTEM AS NORMAL LEAVE FROM THAT POINT
     ON.
  D. ANNOTATE THE DATE ENTERED INTO LW ON THE TOP OF THE 988 AND IMMEDIATELY
     FORWARD TO THE FSO AS SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION THE MANUAL LEAVE REQUEST.
  E. SUSPENSE THE PART III FOR MEMBERS CERTIFICATION UPON COMPLETION OF THE LEAVE.
2. MEMBER MAINTENANCE.
  A. UNIT ADMINISTRATORS ARE REQUIRED TO UPDATE MEMBER INFORMATION IN LEAVEWEB.
     (1) CORRECT EMAIL ADDRESS.
     (2) DUTY PHONE.
     (3) DUTY SECTION.
  B. UNIT LEAVE LOG. EVERY 45 DAYS PRINT THE 1486 FROM LEAVEWEB FOR COMMANDERS
     REVIEW. THERE ARE NO LEAVE BLOCKS OR DROTS TO PICK UP FROM FINANCE.
768                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.15. Leave Status Information.



                                  LEAVE STATUS INFORMATION:


1.    Q0 - LEAVE HAS TO BE ENTERED BY MEMBER BUT NOT SUBMITTED.
2.    Q1 - LEAVE SUBMITTED BY MEMBER BUT NOT YET APPROVED BY APPROVING OFFICIAL.
3.    Q2 - LEAVE APPROVED, AWAITING VALIDATION FROM UNIT ADMIN.
4.    R0 - MEMBER ON LEAVE; AWAITING SUBMISSION OF PART 3.
5.    R1 - MEMBER COMPLETES PART 3 AND IS AWAITING SUPERVISOR'S APPROVAL.
6.    R2 - RETURN FROM LEAVE - HAS BEEN APPROVED, AWAITING VALIDATION FROM UNIT ADMIN.
7.    R3 - LEAVE IS PENDING RECONCILIATION FROM DFAS.
8.    R4 - LEAVE CLOSED.
9.    Q9 - LEAVE CANCELED BEFORE VALIDATION.
10. R9 - LEAVE CANCELED AFTER IT WAS VALIDATED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               769


Figure 44.16. LW Troubleshooting Instructions.



                         LW TROUBLESHOOTING INSTRUCTIONS:

1. PROBLEM: MEMBER IS NOT GETTING EMAIL WITH THEIR NEW PASSWORD.
   A. SOLUTION:
       (1) CHECK EMAIL ADDRESS UNDER MEMBER MAINTENANCE. DOES IT MATCH GLOBAL
           ADDRESS IN OUTLOOK? IF NOT CHANGE IT.
       (2) MANUALLY CHANGE ADDRESS IF MEMBER DOES NOT HAVE EMAIL.
2. PROBLEM: SYSTEM WILL NOT LET MEMBER TAKE LEAVE.
   A. SOLUTION:
       (1) ASK IF THEY JUST PUT IN FOR AN EXTENSION.
       (2) CONTACT FINANCE AND REQUEST MEMBER’S DOS BE ADJUSTED IN SYSTEM TO ALLOW
           MEMBER TO TAKE LEAVE.
       (3) ASK IF WITHIN 30 DAYS OF SEPARATION OR RETIREMENT.
      (4) FINANCE IS REQUIRED TO COORDINATE AND INPUT ANY LEAVE WITHIN 30 DAYS OF DOS.
3. PROBLEM: UNIT ADMIN CANNOT LOGIN.
   A. SOLUTION:
       (1) CHECK WEB ADDRESS. ARE YOU TRYING TO ENTER THROUGH THE MEMBERS PAGE?
       (2) ARE YOU USING THE RIGHT LOGIN. ADMIN USE LAST NAME. WHEN YOU TAKE LEAVE
           YOU ENTER THROUGH THE MEMBER PAGE WITH SSN.
4. PROBLEM: SERVER CRASHES.
   A. SOLUTION: HAVE MEMBERS SUBMIT MANUAL LEAVE FORMS.
       (1) CONTACT FINANCE FOR GET WELL INFO.
       (2) HOLD MANUAL LEAVE FORMS UNTIL SYSTEM COMES ONLINE AND MANUALLY INPUT
           LEAVES.
     (3) FINANCE WILL ADVISE TO BRING LEAVES IN FOR PROCESSING IF SYSTEM WILL BE DOWN
           FOR EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME.
5. PROBLEM: NEW MEMBERS UNIT.
   A. SOLUTION: SEND EMAIL WITH MEMBERS NAME AND SSN TO FINANCE TO ADD TO THE
       LEAVEWEB DATABASE.
6. PROBLEM: MEMBER PCA’S OR PCS’S.
   A. PCA:
       (1) IF MEMBER IS MOVING TO A UNIT YOU CONTROL JUST CHANGE UNIT ID UNDER
           MEMBER MAINTENANCE.
       (2) IF MEMBER IS MOVING TO A UNIT YOU DO NOT CONTROL, FOLLOW NEW MEMBERS TO
           UNIT INSTRUCTIONS (SEE ABOVE).
   B. PCS:
       (1) IF MEMBER PCS’S OUT OF UNIT THEY WILL REMAIN ON YOUR BOOKS FOR 60 DAYS
           AFTER WHICH TIME THEY WILL NO LONGER APPEAR ON YOUR LBL. (NOTE: FINANCE
           WILL WORK WITH YOU ON ANY PROBLEMS YOU ARE HAVING WITH LEAVEWEB.)
770                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.17. Uploading DROTS into LW Instructions.



                          UPLOADING DROTS INTO LW INSTRUCTIONS:


1.    INSERT A BLANK DISKETTE INTO THE FLOPPY DRIVE.
2.    LOG INTO YOUR EARS PROGRAM.
3.    ENSURE CURRENT MONTH IS SELECTED. IF NOT, PRESS THE “C” KEY AND SELECT THE
      CORRECT MONTH FROM THE MENU.
4.    PRESS THE “J” KEY (DROT).
5.    PRESS TAB ONCE AND ENTER THE DATES OF THE PREVIOUS DAYS UPDATE, LEAVING THE
      “TEAM” AND “ISC” FIELDS BLANK. TAB OVER TO THE LAST FIELD AND PRESS ENTER.
6.    AFTER A MINUTE A MESSAGE SHOULD POP UP ASKING YOU WHERE TO “OUTPUT TO
      (S)CREEN, (P)RINTER, (F)ILE, OR (A)BORT” -- PRESS THE “F” KEY FOR FILE.
7.    A SCREEN SHOULD POP UP ASKING YOU TO ENTER THE FILE NAME -- YOU SHOULD INPUT AS
      FOLLOWS: A:0314UPDT.DRT. NOTE: YOU SHOULD SUBSTITUTE THE ACTUAL UPDATE YOU
      WANT TO LOAD IN THE PORTION WHERE IT SHOWS 0314 IN THE ABOVE EXAMPLE, FOR 02-15,
      YOU WOULD TYPE IN A:0215UPDT.DRT.
8.    ONCE THIS HAS FINISHED LOADING ONTO THE DISK, REMOVE THE DISKETTE AND IMPORT
      INTO THE LEAVEWEB SERVER.
9.    INSERT THE FLOPPY DISK INTO THE DIRVE.
10. DOUBLE CLICK ON “MY COMPUTER”.
11. DOUBLE CLICK ON “3 1/2 FLOPPY (A:)” ICON.
12. FIND THE FILE THAT YOU JUST DOWNLOADED FROM EARS AND HIGHLIGHT IT.
13. RIGHT CLICK ON THE “IMPORT” FOLDER.
14. EXIT OUT OF THAT AND DOUBLE CLICK ON THE “SHORCUT TO LW_DAT” FOLDER ON THE
      DESKTOP.
15. DOUBLE CLICK ON THE “IMPORT” FOLDER.
16. RIGHT CLICK INSIDE THIS FOLDER AND SELECT THE “PASTE” OPTION FROM THE MENU BAR.
      YOU SHOULD SEE THE DROT FILE APPEAR IN THIS FOLDER.
17. LOG INTO LEAVEWEB AS THE FINANCE ADMINISTRATOR ON THE LEAVEWEB SERVER.
18. CLICK ON THE “IMPORT DROT” TAB ON THE MENU BAR.
19. CHANGE THE FILE NAME TO MATCH WHAT YOU NAMED THE FILE FROM EARS (EX:
      0314UPDT.DRT).
20. CLICK ON THE “IMPORT DROT” BOX. YOU ARE DONE.


NOTE: THERE IS A LEAVEWEB IMPORT/EXPORT AGENT QUICK-GUIDE AVAILABLE. TO GET A
COPY OF THE GUIDE OR FOR ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THE IMPORT EXPORT MANUAL PLEASE
CALL OR EMAIL THE LEAVEWEB HELP DESK. PHONE: DSN 779-2282 OR COMM: (618) 229-2282.
EMAIL: LEAVE@SCOTT.AF.MIL.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             771


Figure 44.18. Adding Members to LW Instructions:



                          ADDING MEMBERS TO LW INSTRUCTIONS:


1.   LOG INTO LEAVEWEB.
2.   CLICK ON THE “FINANCE ADMIN” TAB.
3.   CLICK ON THE “ADMIN” TAB.
4.   CLICK ON THE “SETUP LOGINS” TAB.
5. IN THE SETUP LOGINS SCREEN, TYPE THE MEMBERS SSN IN THE FIRST BLOCK LABELED LOGIN
     ID/SSN.
6.   IN THE BLOCK LABELED LOGIN TYPE, SELECT MEMBER.
7.   IN THE DESCRIPTION BLOCK TYPE IN MEMBER ACCOUNT.
8. FIND THE CORRECT OFFICE SYMBOL OF THE MEMBER IN THE INPUT/UNIT ID BLOCK. IF YOU
DO
  NOT KNOW THE MEMBER’S UNIT, ASK THE UNIT ADMIN WHO REQUESTED THAT THE
MEMBERS
     RECORD BE BUILT.
9.   ONCE ALL FOUR BLOCKS ARE FILLED IN, CLICK ON THE ADD TO LIST BUTTON.
10. ON THE MENU BAR, CLICK ON THE SETUP MEMBERS OPTION.
11. IF YOU FOLLOWED STEPS 5 THROUGH 11 PROPERLY, THE SSN OF THE MEMBER YOU WANT TO
     BUILD SHOULD ALREADY BE COMPLETED IN THE LOGIN/SSN BLOCK. IF NOT, FIND THE SSN
     YOU WANT TO BUILD AND CLICK ON IT.
12. FILL IN THE MEMBERS INFORMATION RETRIEVED FROM THE FOLLOWING MMPA LINES: MC,
     MD, BR, LG AND TU.
13. FOR THE MEMBERS EMAIL, USE EITHER THE GLOBAL DIRECTORY IN MICROSOFT OUTLOOK
TO
     FIND IT OR ASK THE UNIT ADMIN.
14. ONCE ALL OF THE INFORMATION IS COMPLETED, CLICK THE ADD TO LIST BUTTON.
15. YOU ARE FINISHED.
772                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.19. Building a Unit in LW Instructions.



                           BUILDING A UNIT IN LW INSTRUCTIONS:


1.    LOG INTO LEAVEWEB.
2.    CLICK ON THE “FINANCE ADMINS” TAB.
3.    CLICK ON THE “ADMIN” TAB.
4.    CLICK ON THE “SETUP UNITS” TAB.
5. IN THE “INPUT/UNIT ID” BLOCK, ENTER THE INPUT SOURCE OF THE UNIT YOU ARE BUILDING.
6.    ENTER THE NAME OF THE UNIT IN THE “UNIT NAME” BLOCK TYPE IN THE LOCATION
      (PENTAGON, BOLLING, ETC.)
7. IN THE “OTHER UNITS” BLOCK, FIND ALL OF THE UNITS THAT THE INPUT SOURCE SERVICES. IF
      THERE IS MORE THAN ONE, HOLD THE CTRL BUTTON ON YOUR KEYBOARD WHILE CLICKING
      ON THE SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH, ETC. UNIT.
8.    ONCE ALL OF THE UNITS ARE HIGHLIGHTED, CLICK ON THE “AD TO LIST” BUTTON.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              773


Figure 44.20. Building a Unit Admin in LW Instructions.



                      BUILDING A UNIT ADMIN IN LW INSTRUCTIONS:


1.   LOG INTO LEAVEWEB.
2.   CLICK ON THE “FINANCE ADMINS” TAB.
3.   CLICK ON THE “ADMIN” TAB.
4.   CLICK ON THE “SETUP LOGINS” TAB.
5.   IN THE LOGIN ID/SSN BLOCK, TYPE IN THE LOGIN OF THE UNIT ADMIN YOU ARE BUILDING.
     THIS SHOULD BE THE FIRST LETTER OF THEIR FIRST NAME AND THEIR LAST NAME. EXAMPLE
     MICHAEL O’CONNOR LOGIN WOULD BE MOCONNOR.
6.   FOR LOGIN TYPE, SELECT “UNIT ADMIN”.
7.   UNDER DESCRIPTION, TYPE IN THE NAME AND DUTY PHONE NUMBER OF THE UNIT LEAVE
     CLERK.
8.   IN THE INPUT/UNIT ID FIELD, SELECT THE UNIT THAT THE LEAVE CLERK SERVICES.
9.   CLICK THE “ADD AND CREATE PASSWORD” BLOCK.
10. THIS WILL BRING YOU TO THE CHANGE USER PASSWORD SCREEN. THE LOGIN ID SHOULD BE
     COMPLETED ALREADY.
11. IN THE NEW PASSWORD AND CONFIRM NEW PASSWORD BLOCKS, TYPE IN THIS PASSWORD:
     P@SSW0RD (THE 0 IS A ZERO).
12. CLICK ON THE “NEW PASSWORD” BLOCK.
13. INFORM THE LEAVE CLERK OF HIS/HER LOGIN ID AND PASSWORD.
774                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.21. Building Unit Emails Instructions.



                           BUILDING UNIT EMAILS INSTRUCTIONS:


1.    ON THE LEAVEWEB SERVER, OPEN “ENTERPRISE MANAGER”.
2.    OPEN “MICROSOFT SEQUEL SERVERS”.
3.    OPEN “SQL SERVER GROUP”
4. OPEN “NTS02”. IT MAY GIVE YOU A MESSAGE STATING SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT OF NTS02
      IS NOT RUNNING, WOULD YOU LIKE TO BEGIN OR START ONE; IF IT DOES THIS CLICK YES.
5.    OPEN “DATABASES”.
6.    HIGHLIGHT THE “LEAVEWEB” TAB.
7.    WHEN THE WINDOW OPENS, CLICK ON THE “TOOLS” TAB AND SELECT THE OPTION “SQL
      SERVER QUERY ANALYZER”.
8.    IN THIS WINDOW, CLICK ON THE “FILE” TAB AND SELECT “OPEN”.
9.    BY DEFAULT, IT SHOULD AUTOMATICALLY BE ON THE “MY DOCUMENTS” FOLDER - CHANGE
      THIS TO THE “DESKTOP”, THEN DOUBLE CLICK ON THE “SHORTCUT TO LW_DAT” FOLDER.
      INSIDE OF THIS FOLDER, HIGHLIGHT THE “UNITEMAIL.SQL” FILE AND CLICK “OPEN”.
10. WHEN THE NEW WINDOW POPS UP, WITH THE MESSAGE “WHERE UNIT CD IN ‘PA’, ‘ND’, ‘EA’” -
     (THE INPT SOURCE CODES MAY BE DIFFERENT THAN THE ONES LISTED HERE; WHAT THEY ARE
      WHEN YOU OPEN THIS IS NOT IMPORTANT). CHANGE THE INPUT SOURCE CODES TO THE UNIT
      YOU WANT TO BUILD -- EXAMPLE, WHEN YOU OPEN THE WINDOW IT READS WHAT IS LISTED
      ABOVE: “WHERE UNIT CD IN ‘PA’, ‘ND’ ‘EA’, “AND YOU WANT TO BUILD THE EMAIL
      ADDRESSES FOR THE UNIT JJ, YOU WOULD HAVE TO DELETE OUT THE OLD INPUT SOURCES
      AND FILL IN THE ONE FOR JJ, IT SHOULD LOOK LIKE THIS: WHERE UNIT CD IN ‘JJ’. NEAR THE
      TOP OF THIS SCREEN, IT WILL ALSO SAY DOMAIN NAME IN ‘BOLLING.AF.MIL’. IF YOU ARE
      CHANGING THE UNIT’S EMAIL TO PENTAGON.AF.MIL, YOU WOULD WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THE
      PORTION THAT SAYS BOLLING.AF.MIL AND REPLACE IT WITH PENTAGON.AF.MIL. MAKE SURE
      YOU DO NOT CHANGE THE LOCATION OF ANY QUOTATIONS ALREADY IN PLACE ON THIS
      SCREEN. IF YOU DO THE EMAIL CHANGE WILL NOT WORK.
11. ONCE YOU HAVE DONE THE ABOVE STEPS, YOU WILL WANT TO CLICK ON THE GREEN ARROW
      BUTTON, WHICH STANDS FOR EXECUTE. A MESSAGE SHOULD APPEAR TELLING YOU HOW
      MANY ROWS HAVE BEEN AFFECTED.
12. WHEN YOU CLOSE THE WINDOW, IT SHOULD ASK IF YOU WANT TO SAVE YOUR CHANGES, AND
      YOU SHOULD CLICK NO.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               775


Figure 44.22. Changing Member’s DOS in LW Instructions.



                     CHANGING MEMBER’S DOS IN LW INSTRUCTIONS:


1.   LOG INTO LEAVEWEB.
2.   CLICK ON THE “FINANCE ADMINS” TAB.
3.   CLICK ON THE “ADMIN” TAB.
4.   CLICK ON THE “SETUP MEMBERS” TAB.
5. IN THE “LIMIT BY” BLOCK AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN, TYPE IN THE MEMBERS SSN AND CLICK
     ON “REFRESH”.
6.   THE MEMBERS RECORD SHOULD APPEAR. CLICK ON THE MODIFY BUTTON.
7.   IN LEAVEWEB, TYPE IN THE CORRECT MEMBERS EMAIL ADDRESS IN THE MEMBER EMAIL
     BLOCK.
8.   CLICK ON THE UPDATE BLOCK.

Figure 44.23. Changing a Member’s Email Address in LW Instructions.



              CHANGING A MEMBER’S EMAIL ADDRESS IN LW INSTRUCTIONS:


1.   LOG INTO LEAVEWEB.
2.   CLICK ON THE “FINANCE ADMINS’ TAB.
3.   CLICK ON THE “ADMIN” TAB.
4.   CLICK ON THE “SETUP MEMBERS” TAB.
5. IN THE “LIMIT BY” BLOCK AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN, TYPE IN THE MEMBERS SSN AND CLICK
     ON “REFRESH”.
6.   THE MEMBERS RECORD SHOULD APPEAR. CLICK ON THE MODIFY BUTTON.
7.   IN LEAVEWEB, TYPE IN THE CORRECT MEMBERS EMAIL ADDRESS IN THE MEMBER EMAIL
     BLOCK.
8.   CLICK ON THE UPDATE BLOCK.
776                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 44.24. Changing LW Password Instructions.



                           CHANGING LW PASSWORD INSTRUCTIONS:


1.    LOG INTO LEAVEWEB.
2.    CLICK ON THE “FINANCE ADMINS’ TAB.
3.    CLICK ON THE “ADMIN” TAB.
4.    CLICK ON THE “CHANGE USER PASSWORD” TAB.
5. TYPE IN THE LOGIN ID (IF YOU ARE CHANGING THE PASSWORD FOR A MEMBER, THIS IS THEIR
      SSN; IF FOR A UNIT ADMIN, ASK THEM WHAT THEIR LOGIN ID IS - THEY SHOULD KNOW IT).
6.    IN THE NEW PASSWORD BLOCK AND THE CONFIRM NEW PASSWORD BLOCK, TYPE IN THIS
      PASSWORD: P@SSW0RD (THE 0 IS A ZERO).
7.    ONCE THIS IS FILLED BOTH OF THE BLOCKS, CLICK ON THE NEW PASSWORD BLOCK.
8.    THE PASSWORD WILL BE EXPIRED THE FIRST TIME THE INDIVIDUAL LOGS INTO THE SYSTEM
      FORCING A CHANGE TO A NEW PASSWORD.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    777


Figure 44.25. Review of AF Form 1486. Memorandum For: Unit Leave Monitor.
                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                HEADQUARTERS XXXX




MEMORANDUM FOR: UNIT LEAVE MONITOR                                          DATE


FROM: UNIT CC


SUBJECT: REVIEW OF AF FORM 1486 FOR PERIOD OF ________ TO ________




I HAVE REVIEWED THE AF FORM 1486 FOR THE PERIOD OF _______ TO _________ ENCOM-
PASSING LEAVE NUMBERS _________ TO ______________.


ALL LEAVES REVIEWED WERE CLOSED, VALIDATED AND RECONCILED FOR THIS PERIOD
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE FOLLOWING LEAVE AUTHORIZATION NUMBERS.


  1.
  2.
  3.


ALL LEAVES ANNOTATED ABOVE WILL BE FORWARDED TO UNIT LEAVE MONITOR FOR
CORRECTIVE ACTION. CORRECTIVE ACTION WILL BE ANNOTATED WITH THIS MONTHLY
REPORT BY __________.




                                                        UNIT COMMANDER
                                                        XX/CC
778                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             Chapter 45

      RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         779


                                              Chapter 46

                               ABSENT WITHOUT LEAVE (AWOL)

46.1. Description. The Definitions in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, defines Absent Without Leave
(AWOL) as absence from a place of duty without permission or authorization and without the intention of
deserting.

46.2. Substantiating Documents. The MPF is responsible for furnishing the FSO a copy of AF Form
2098, Duty Status Change, or the JUMPS transaction register on a daily basis.

46.3. Responsibilities. The orderly room (squadron commander or first sergeant) advises the FSO, by
telephone, of any member declared AWOL. Based on this information, the FSO processes a P103 or P203
to prevent issuance of a paycheck.

46.4. FSO Actions:
   46.4.1. Upon receipt of substantiating documents mentioned in paragraph 46.2., suspend all payments
   to the member reported AWOL. Review the member's MMPA daily to ensure the member is placed
   in an AWOL status (SJ) but do not process an ST04, as this will cause MPF transactions to reject.
   46.4.2. Absentee From Unit Transferred Overseas. If member is AWOL when his or her unit departs,
   FSO sends management file to DFAS-DE via AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal (JUMPS). Mark
   envelope, address label, and AF Form 1209 with red pencil to show member's status. (See Chapter
   2.)
   46.4.3. Disposition of Absentee's Management File:
       46.4.3.1. Absentee From Unit Transferred Overseas. See 46.4.2. above.
       46.4.3.2. All Other Absentees. Dispose of management file per paragraph 47.3. If member's unit
       is transferred, permanent change of station (PCS) (other than overseas), send absentee's manage-
       ment file to new station with management file of the unit. New station complies with paragraph
       47.3.

46.5. Effect on MMPA:
   46.5.1. Pay and Allowances. AWOL status automatically suspends all pay and allowances.
   46.5.2. Allotments. When an SJ04 transaction processes, DJMS stops allotments as follows:
       46.5.2.1. At the end of the previous month, if member does not have sufficient pay accrued to
       cover allotments.
NOTE: If AWOL occurs during the beginning of the month, this will almost always result in allotments
being stopped immediately on processing of the SJ04 transaction.
       46.5.2.2. At the end of the month, AWOL starts if sufficient pay is accrued to cover the allot-
       ments.
       46.5.2.3. Allotments for bonds are stopped as of last bond issue date.
780                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         46.5.2.4. DJMS sends the servicing ADSN an XJ management notice to inform the FSO the date
         allotments stopped.
      46.5.3. Leave Accounting. AWOL status automatically suspends leave accruals until member is
      returned to a leave-earning status.
      46.5.4. Lost Time. When the AWOL status is terminated, DJMS automatically adjusts pay date and
      total active federal military service date (TAFMSD). MPF input is required to change DOS, if neces-
      sary.
      46.5.5. Servicemen’s Group Life Insurance (SGLI). DJMS stops this deduction at end of month in
      which the 31st day of AWOL status occurs. When an AWOL period ends, SGLI, if previously in
      effect, is automatically reinstated.
      46.5.6. AFRH Deduction. DJMS deducts for month AWOL status started. However, if AWOL began
      on first day of a month, deduction is stopped at end of prior month.

46.6. Special Provisions. If member fails to report to new duty station and later arrives, these actions
apply:
      46.6.1. Gaining unit or any military installation must inform losing unit of member's status or failure
      to report under PCS orders. (See AFI 36-2911, section D, paragraph 11.) Contact DFAS-DE for iden-
      tity of losing unit, if necessary.
      46.6.2. Based on AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change, prepared by losing unit, MPF inputs SJ04
      transaction to change status to AWOL. Normal AWOL processing follows.
      46.6.3. If member later reports to new station, gaining MPF inputs SA04 transaction to remove
      AWOL status. FSO then processes an SG03 transaction. The on-station transaction reinstates the SH
      PCS status on the MMPA. On-station processing follows under Table 43.2., rule 1.
      46.6.4. SJ03 transactions to report periods of AWOL, which occurred while member was in a PCS
      status, do not process until an SG03 is processed. (See paragraph 41.3.)

46.7. Input:
      46.7.1. Action Indicators. Use and effect of specific action indicators prescribed for AWOL are in
      Table 46.1.
      46.7.2. Data Elements and Codes:
         46.7.2.1. Starting AWOL. Status determinant code J denotes member is on unauthorized absence
         of more than 24 hours.
         46.7.2.2. Terminating AWOL. The member's MPF will use status determinant applicable to
         member's current status (A -- on-station; K -- confinement). See Chapter 43 for action to obtain
         member's management file from DFAS-DE, if necessary.
      46.7.3. Excused Absence. If an AWOL absence was reported to DFAS-DE and later excused as
      unavoidable:
         46.7.3.1. The MPF submits a transaction containing the start date of the bad status and number of
         days to make good equals zero. This transaction causes DFAS-DE to cancel the period of AWOL.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    781


     46.7.3.2. If absence is chargeable to leave, unit prepares report transaction under the leave
     accounting procedures to charge absence to leave. (See Chapter 44 and AFI 36-2911, paragraph
     18.)
782                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 46.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change (to Change Member's Status to AWOL).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                783


Figure 46.2. Format to Report/Change/Cancel AWOL Status.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0SJ03/04/06


     6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD STATUS STARTED


     26-31      YYMMDD STATUS STOPPED OR ZEROS


                SJ03 CONTAINS BOTH START AND STOP DATES
                SJ04 CONTAINS START DATE AND STOP DATE IS ZEROS
                SJ06 CONTAINS SAME START AND STOP DATE AS TRANSACTION BEING
                CANCELED
784                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 46.1. Action Indicators – Use and Effect – AWOL Status.
                A                      B                                   C
R     When status
U     determinant is code and input transaction         then effect on MMPA is to
L     J (AWOL) and
                          has
E     action indicator is
    1 03-report           both start and stop dates     record an inclusive period of AWOL
                                                        (note).
    2 04-change            a start date and the stop    change member's current status to AWOL
                           date is zero-filled          and close member's prior status.
    3 06-cancel            a start date which equals    cancel an AWOL. Status reported in error
                           prior erroneous date and     on a continuous basis (note).
                           stop date is zero-filled
                           a start date and stop date   cancel an AWOL. Status reported in error
                           which equals prior           in MMPA or history file.
                           transaction date

NOTE: MMPA status existing immediately before the adjustment is restored. If a new status exists, pro-
cess a separate transaction effective day after end of AWOL status.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             785


                                              Chapter 47

                                             DESERTION

47.1. Description. Deserter status is declared after a member has been AWOL for 30 days. (For informa-
tion on AWOL. See Chapter 46 of this volume.) Member's MPF reports deserter status to DJMS.

47.2. Substantiating Document. The MPF furnishes the FSO a copy of AF Form 2098, Duty Status
Change (Figure 47.1.), and the JTR on a daily basis.

47.3. Responsibilities. Upon receipt of the substantiating documents, the FSO should suspend all pay-
ments to the member reported AWOL by processing a P103 or P203, and review the MMPA daily until
the SP04 processes. Do not process an ST04 as this will cause the MPF transactions to reject.

47.4. FSO Actions:
   47.4.1. Dropped from Rolls of Unit. On 180th day of absence status, unit issues an AF Form 2098
   showing status change from deserter to dropped from rolls (DFR). FSO then mails AF Form 2098 and
   management file (if applicable) with AF Form 1209, Documental Transmittal (DJMS), to DFAS-DE.
   Mark AF Form 1209 with red pencil to show member's status. (See Chapter 3.) Submit these docu-
   ments and information, as applicable.
       47.4.1.1. Copy of CTHR print, with unsettled advances highlighted.
       47.4.1.2. Copy of DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data.
       47.4.1.3. Unpaid travel claims (DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher), showing itin-
       erary with applicable orders.
       47.4.1.4. Report of any unusual circumstances affecting the pay account.
   47.4.2. Return from Deserter Status. When notification is received that member has returned to mil-
   itary control, DFAS-DE sends management file to proper FSO. See paragraph 43.6. Include pertinent
   documents listed above.

47.5. Effect of Desertion Status on MMPA:
   47.5.1. Pay and Allowances. Desertion status automatically stops all accruals of pay and allowances.
   Any credits in the pay account are used to satisfy debts to the United States, as required. Otherwise,
   they are held until member's return to military control.
   47.5.2. Allotments. Any allotments in effect are stopped at end of month before desertion status
   began. However, if processing date is after restructure, they are stopped at end of current month. To
   restart allotments, submit input IAW Chapter 57 and Chapter 58.
   47.5.3. Deduction for SGLI. DFAS-DE stops deduction at end of month in which the 31st day of
   absentee's status occurs. When a desertion status is terminated, SGLI, if previously in effect, is auto-
   matically reinstated.
   47.5.4. AFRH Deduction. DFAS-DE deducts for month AWOL or desertion status started. However,
   if absence began on first day of a month, deduction is stopped end of prior month.
786                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      47.5.5. Leave Accounting. Desertion status automatically stops leave accruals until member is
      returned to a leave-earning status.
      47.5.6. Lost Time. DFAS-DE automatically adjusts pay date and Total Air Force Military Service
      Date (TAFMSD). MPF input of a TI transaction is required to change date of separation (DOS) and
      expiration of term of service (ETS).
      47.5.7. Other Entitlements. Submit other entitlement items determined due as separate input transac-
      tions. Ensure that start date is after desertion status ends and that MMPA has been reestablished.

47.6. Special Provisions:
      47.6.1. Action Indicators. Specific action indicators to input desertion status are in Table 47.1.
      47.6.2. Data Elements and Codes. See Attachment 13. When beginning desertion, status determinant
      code P denotes member administratively classified as a deserter.
      47.6.3. Excused Absence. If member's command excuses the absence as unavoidable, AF Form 2098
      is sent to FSO.
         47.6.3.1. Absence Excused. See paragraph 46.4.3.1. for action to be taken when absence is
         excused.
         47.6.3.2. Absence Chargeable to Leave. If absence is chargeable to leave, unit prepares a
         report-type transaction under the leave accounting procedures to charge absence to leave. (See
         Chapter 44 and AFI 36-2911, paragraph18.)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                787


Figure 47.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change (to Change Member's Status to Desertion).
788                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 47.2. Format to Change/Cancel Desertion Status.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0SP04/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20        DATE OF DESERTION START


                 A SP04 CONTAINS THE DATE MEMBER'S STATUS STARTED. A SP06 MUST
                 CONTAIN THE SAME DATE AS IN THE TRANSACTION BEING
                 CANCELED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   789


Table 47.1. Desertion Status – Action Indicators – Use and Effect.
              A                       B                                C
R
U    If member's status   and action indicator is   then effect on member status is to
L
     is
E
    1 desertion           04-change                 change current status to desertion and
      (FORMAT-ID-SP)                                close prior MMPA status.
    2                     06-cancel                 cancel a desertion status reported in
                                                    error. Member status existing
                                                    immediately before the erroneous
                                                    desertion action is restored. If a new
                                                    status exists, submit separate input
                                                    transaction.
790                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                  Chapter 48

                                              CONFINEMENT

48.1. Description. The effects of specific types of confinement on a member's pay and allowances are
described in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 1.

48.2. Substantiating Document. The MPF furnishes the FSO a copy of the DJMS JTR.

48.3. Responsibilities. The orderly room (squadron commander or first sergeant) advises the FSO, by
telephone, of any member placed in civilian confinement. Based on this information, the FSO takes steps
to prevent a paycheck from being issued, including suppressing the member's pay for local payees (P103
for mid-month/P203 for end of month). Member's MPF inputs the transaction to report member's con-
finement, civilian or military (SK transaction).

48.4. FSO Actions:
      48.4.1. Do not process ST04.
      48.4.2. Based upon receipt of substantiating documents, immediately suspend all payments to mem-
      ber reported confined, if confinement is a type that suspends member's entitlement to pay and allow-
      ances. (See Table 48.4.) FSO reviews the member's MMPA daily to ensure the confinement status is
      posted.
      48.4.3. Disposition of Management Files for Confined Members. (See Chapter 2.)
         48.4.3.1. Civil Confinement. Maintain management file at base level while member is in pre-trial
         confinement. If member is confined after conviction, mail management case file to DFAS-DE
         after 180 days (see Chapter 2) with AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal (DJMS). To obtain the
         management file from DFAS-DE on member's release, see paragraph 43.6.
         48.4.3.2. Military Confinement. Maintain per Chapter 2.

48.5. Effect of Confinement Status on MMPA. (See Table 48.1.) When member's pay is suspended,
allotments are handled the same as for AWOL. (See paragraph 46.5.2.)

48.6. Special Provisions:
      48.6.1. Lost Time. When the confinement status is terminated by MPF, DJMS automatically adjusts
      pay date and TAFMSD. If DOS/ETS is to be changed, MPF input is required.
      48.6.2. Health and Comfort Items. Members in confinement may be authorized health and comfort
      payments (AFI 31-205) if member is in a non-pay status. Comfort payments for prisoners are paid out
      of local O&M funds and not reported to DJMS. When health and comfort items are furnished to a per-
      son in a pay status, they are paid for from the individual's personal funds or charged against his or her
      pay account. (See DoDFMR, Vol 10, chapter 12.) Handle billings as shown below:
         48.6.2.1. The United States Disciplinary Barracks (USDB) at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, will pre-
         pare a DD Form 504, Request and Receipt for Health and Comfort Supplies, for inmates in a pay
         status who do not have sufficient funds in their personal deposit account. The DD Form 504,is sent
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           791


      to United States Air Force, HQ AFSFC/SFC, 1517 Billy Mitchell, Lackland Air Force Base, TX
      78236, who establishes a DS indebtedness on the member's MMPA.
      48.6.2.2. For inmates in a pay status who have sufficient funds in their personal deposit accounts,
      USDB prepares and sends a DD Form 504 (with an accompanying check from the USDB Personal
      Deposit Fund) to United States Air Force, HQ AFSFC/SFCT, 1517 Billy Mitchell Blvd, Bldg 954,
      Lackland Air Force Base, TX , 78236, as a payment to reimburse account 21 X 2020.0015
      57-310626EB QLOG CA2OO 014021 for previous health and comfort supplies received.
NOTE: The reason for the Army line of accounting is that USDB at Fort Leavenworth, KS, is an Army
confinement facility and the health and comfort expenses should be reimbursed to the Army.
      48.6.2.3. A copy of the DD Form 504 (with the receipt signature block signed) which was sent to
      HQ AFSFC/SFC will be returned to: U.S. Disciplinary Barracks, HQ AFSFC/DET1, 1301 N.
      Warehouse Rd., Fort Leavenworth KS 66027-1363.

48.7. Input:
   48.7.1. Action Indicators. Specific action indicators are described in Table 48.3.
   48.7.2. Data Elements and Codes:
      48.7.2.1. Beginning Confinement Status. Status determinant code K shows member is impris-
      oned by civil or military authorities.
      48.7.2.2. Terminating Confinement Status. MPF uses action indicator 04 and status determinant
      applicable to member's new current status (on-station code-A.) For pay purposes, effective date is
      day of return to duty.
      48.7.2.3. Codes--Confinement Type. (See Attachment 14.)
      48.7.2.4. If a confinement absence is charged to leave, the unit submits leave transaction as in
      Chapter 44. (See Table 48.3. for uses and effect of 06--cancel.)
792                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 48.1. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change (to Change Member's Status to Confinement).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              793


Figure 48.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Payments for Comfort Items.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PV03/06 OR APV05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT
                R--ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO. OTHERWISE, BLANK

       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-45      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


     46-48      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


     53-54      RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
794                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      57-60   PAYROLL NUMBER


       66     RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE


              NOTE:
              A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
              CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
              THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  795


Figure 48.3. Format to Report/Change/Cancel Confinement Status.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0SK03/04/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE OF CONFINEMENT START


     26-31      DATE OF CONFINEMENT STOP


       32       CONFINEMENT TYPE: 1 THRU 6


                A SK03 SHOWS BOTH CONFINEMENT START AND STOP DATES. DAY OF
                RETURN TO AN ON-STATION IS CONSIDERED AS FIRST FULL DAY OF AN
                ON-STATION STATUS AND STOP DATE IS DAY BEFORE


                A SK04 SHOWS A CONFINEMENT START DATE ONLY


                A SK06 MUST SHOW DATES IDENTICAL TO THOSE SHOWN IN THE OPEN
                SK ENTRY.
796                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 48.1. Confinement – Civil Data Required on Substantiating Document.
              A                          B                                    C
 R
 U If the member is          and AF Form 2098            then submit input transaction to
                             shows                       DFAS-DE using confinement type (cp
 L
                                                         32 of input)
 E
  1 apprehended or           date and place of           (see note 1).
    detained by civil        apprehension; place
    authorities other than   detained or confined;
    as a material witness    charges against the
                             member, if available
  2 detained as a            date and place detained or (see note 2).
    material witness         confined; reason for
                             detention
  3 convicted and            charge for which            1 (if not previously reported).
    confined by civil        convicted; date
    authorities              convicted; term of
                             sentence; and place of
                             confinement
  4 acquitted or released date returned to military (see note 3).
    for any reason which duty; reason released,
    entitles him or her to date of trial, and acquittal
    pay and allowances
  5 released without trial circumstances involved        (same as rule 4, if excused; see note 1 if
                           in release                    not excused).
  6 released to join his or date returned to duty        (see note 1).
    her station pending status or other status, as
    final determination applicable
    (note 2)
  7 released to military     date returned to military (see note 1).
    control without          control; charge for which
    confinement after he     convicted; date
    or she is tried and      convicted; and
    convicted                circumstances
                             surrounding his or her
                             return to military control
  8 discharged while         (see Chapter 28 for input
    confined by civil        transactions)
    authorities
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         797


NOTES:
          1. Use status determinant applicable to member's new status (on-station-code A; military
             confinement-code K) with pertinent type code.
          2. When final determination is received, separate input is received if conviction falls under
             rule 3 above.
          3. MPF inputs an SA04 effective date of confinement, which generates a SK06.

Table 48.2. Confinement – Military Data Required on Substantiating Document.
              A                       B                                 C
 R
 U If the member is        and AF Form 2098          then submit input transaction to
                           shows                     DFAS-DE using confinement type (cp 32
 L
                                                     of input)
 E
  1 confined awaiting      beginning date of      3.
    court-martial trial or confinement and ending
    sentence               date, if applicable
  2 confined as a result   beginning date of         4. (note).
    of a court-martial     confinement
    sentence
  3 held in military       beginning date of         5.
    confinement            confinement; date and
                           place apprehended;
                           place detained or
                           confined; charges
                           against member, if
                           available
  4 held in military       date of indictment; place 6.
    confinement for        detained or confined;
    foreign civil          indictment charges
    offense-indicted

NOTE: For SK04, code 4, transaction, review housing allowance and submit separate transaction to stop
housing allowance (FIs 51, 52, 53, 55, 56, 57).
798                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 48.3. Confinement Status – Action Indicators – Use and Effect.
                A                         B                                  C
 R If status determinant is and input transaction          then effect on the MMPA member
 U confinement (code K) has                                status is to
   and action indictor is
 L
 E
  1 03-report (see Figure     both start and stop dates    record an inclusive period (short
    20.1.)                                                 duration) of confinement status (note).
  2 04-change (see Figure     a start date and stop date   change member's current status to
    20.1.)                    zero-filled                  confinement on a continuing basis;
                                                           close the member's prior status.
  3 06-cancel (see Figure     start date which equals      cancel a confinement status reported
    20.1.)                    prior erroneous date and     in error on a continuing basis (note).
                              stop date zero-filled
  4                           start date and stop dates    cancel an inclusive period of
                              which equals prior           confinement in MMPA history file
                              transaction dates            (note)

NOTE: MMPA status existing immediately before the adjustment is restored. If a new status exists, pre-
pare a separate transaction effective day after end of confinement.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       799


Table 48.4. Effect of Input Transaction on MMPA – Confinement Type.
               A                   B                                 C
 R
 U If a member's status is and confinement    then effect on the MMPA is to
                           type code is
 L
 E
  1 confinement by civil     1                a. suspend pay and allowances.
    authorities                               b. suspend accrual of leave;
                                              c. adjust service dates for lost time (note 1).
  2 confinement by military 2                 note status in MMPA and continue accrual of
    or civil authorities as a                 leave, pay, and allowances. If furnished
    civil witness                             rations by military authorities, submit input to
                                              stop BAS and COLA, without dependents, for
                                              enlisted members. (See Chapter 41 and
                                              Chapter 44.)
  3 military confinement     3                a. suspend BAS and COLA without
    awaiting investigation                    dependents for enlisted members;
    or court-martial                          b. suspend FDP, SDP, DIV-DY-PAY,
                                              PARA-JUMP-DY, DML-DY, STRESS-DY;
                                              c. suspend accrual of leave (note 4).
                                              d. adjust service dates for lost time (notes 1
                                              and 4);
                                              e. stop accruals of pay and allowances if ETS
                                              occurs while in confinement (Chapter 28).
  4 military                 4                a. suspend BAS and COLA without
    confinement-serving a                     dependents for enlisted members;
    court-martial sentence                    b. suspend FDP, SDP, DIV-DY-PAY;
                                              c. suspend accrual of leave;
                                              d. adjust service dates for lost time (note 1);
                                              e. stop accruals of pay and allowance if ETS
                                              occurs while in confinement (Chapter 28).
  5 military confinement      5               (same as rule 3).
    for foreign civil offense
    pending charge of
    indictment
800                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


               A                        B                                 C
 R
 U If a member's status is and confinement           then effect on the MMPA is to
                           type code is
 L
 E
  6 military confinement       6                     (same as rule 1).
    for foreign civil
    offense-indicted

NOTES:
         1.
              a. These service dates are adjusted for enlisted members who do not hold Reserve com-
                 mission.
                   (1) Pay Date.
                   (2) Effective date, years of service completed.
                   (3) Effective date for future payment of reenlistment bonus.
              b. Total active federal military service date is adjusted for enlisted members only.
         2. Submit separate BAS and COLA, without dependents, transactions if these entitlements
            are due the member. Prepare input transaction as shown in Chapter 25 and Chapter 28.
         3. If processing date is after restructure, stop allotments current month.
         4. When investigation or court-martial is conducted. T1 transaction input by MPF further
            adjusts service dates.
         5. BAS is not payable for the period of confinement because the member was subsisted at
            government expense.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             801


                                              Chapter 49

                                         HOSPITALIZATION

49.1. Description. When an Air Force enlisted member, officer, or a dependent of any member is hospi-
talized in a military medical treatment facility (MTF), civilian medical facility (CMF), Veteran's Admin-
istration Facility, or a Uniformed Services Treatment Facility (USTF) (formerly Public Health Service
Hospitals), the member is entitled to BAS. If not currently being paid, BAS is processed for the period of
hospitalization and medical charges are collected. References to member include enlisted member and
officer unless specifically identified as one or the other.
   49.1.1. Notification of Indebtedness. The member must be notified of the indebtedness per the appli-
   cable procedures in this chapter.
   49.1.2. Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS). BAS continues to be paid to members while hospi-
   talilzed but meal charges must be collected from their pay, either by allowing the DN to continue or
   establishing a DS on the record.
   49.1.3. Medical Care Charge. The cost that is assessed against a military member for a period of hos-
   pitalization that the member incurred on behalf of himself or herself or upon behalf of a dependent
   which the member sponsored. The medical treatment could have been provided by a MTF, CMF, VA
   facility or USTF.

49.2. Substantiating Documents:
   49.2.1. DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization.
   49.2.2. SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal.

49.3. Responsibilities:
   49.3.1. Medical Care Facility responsibilities:
       49.3.1.1. The military care facility is responsible for notifying the patient of the charges due and
       asking them to make payment. If the patient was a dependent and payment is not made, the med-
       ical facility must notify the member and ask for payment of the charges. If payment is not made,
       the MTF is responsible for preparation of DD Form 139 for medical care charges.
       49.3.1.2. Status of Collection Action. If the MTF has not received a copy of the DROT/JUMPS
       Data Collection Input List, annotated copy of the DD Form 139 or payment for the charges 30
       days from the date of the DD Form 139, the MTF will send the letter shown in Figure 49.3. to the
       addressee of the DD Form 139. The FSO must respond to the MTF immediately indicating action
       taken.
   49.3.2. Basic Trainee or OTS Member. A basic trainee or Officer Training School (OTS) member
   who is hospitalized in an Air Force MTF will incur a medical care charge for the period of hospitaliza-
   tion.
       49.3.2.1. Upon receipt of the DD Form 139, the FSO reviews the document to make sure all appli-
       cable information is provided. If the DD Form 139 is not complete, return to the MTF for comple-
       tion.
802                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         49.3.2.2. Process a 4003 transaction for BAS entitlement for the period of hospitalization and a
         DS01 transaction for the medical care charge. Both transactions must be processed in the same
         DJMS update to make sure the medical care charge is an offset from the BAS entitlement. The
         DS01 transaction must be processed with indebtedness type E and the D-prefix company code in
         the appropriation data field on the DD Form 139.
      49.3.3. Air Force Medical Treatment Facility-Enlisted Member, Officer, or Dependent. Medical care
      charges are incurred by an enlisted member, officer, or dependent of any member when hospitalized in
      an Air Force MTF.
         49.3.3.1. Notification. Upon discharge, the patient is notified of the charges due and asked to
         make payment to the MTF. If the patient was a dependent and payment is not made, the MTF
         must notify the member and ask for payment.
         49.3.3.2. Consent. The member may request collection of the charges by a deduction from pay by
         completing the consent for deduction from pay using the format shown in Figure 49.1. This con-
         sent statement is given to the member by the MTF and forwarded to the member's servicing FSO
         with a DD Form 139. The consent may not be signed by a dependent.
         49.3.3.3. FSO Procedures. Review the DD Form 139 to verify that the debt is proper and docu-
         mentation complete. The collection must be a one-time deduction unless the debt exceeds
         two-thirds of pay. When the debt exceeds two-thirds pay, at least two-thirds of pay must be
         deducted with the balance collected the next month.
             49.3.3.3.1. Consent Signed. (See Figure 49.1.) The statement: "The charges are for hospi-
             talization of (name of patient) (relationship to member) for the period (admission/discharge
             date and times). See attached consent." must be included on the DD Form 139. Make sure
             consent is attached to the DD Form 139 and was signed by the member. Within 3 working
             days process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type E and the MTF company code shown
             in the appropriation data field on the DD Form 139. If the member was the patient, verify the
             member's BAS entitlement and process a 4003 transaction for the period of hospitalization, if
             applicable.
             49.3.3.3.2. Consent Not Signed. The DD Form 139 may not be forwarded to the FSO before
             30 days after notification. The notification statement prepared by the MTF must be included
             on the DD Form 139. Within 30 working days process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness
             type E and the MTF company code shown in the appropriation data field on the DD Form 139.
             If an enlisted member was the patient, verify the member's BAS entitlement and process a
             4003 transaction for the period of hospitalization, if applicable.
             49.3.3.3.3. Charges Paid. When an enlisted member was the patient and pays the charges
             directly to the MTF, the BAS determination using the format Figure 49.2. will be forwarded to
             the member's servicing FSO. The FSO will verify the member's BAS entitlement and process
             a 4003 transaction for the period of hospitalization, if applicable.
             49.3.3.3.4. MTFs on Same Base. For MTFs located on the same base as the FSO, process the
             DS01 transactions using a separate DJMS input source. Send to the MTF, a copy of the
             DROT/JUMPS Data Collection Input List (PCN04) or annotated copy of the processed DD
             Form 139 stating "Deduction processed effective (YYMM)" so they can verify receipt of DD
             Forms 139. For MTFs not located on the same base as the FSO, return to the MTF an anno-
             tated copy of the processed DD Form 139 stating, "Deduction processed effective (YYMM)."
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           803


     49.3.3.4. Incomplete DD Form 139. Any DD Forms 139 which are not complete should be
     returned to the MTF for completion. Provide the MTF with an explanation as to what is wrong
     with the DD Form 139.
  49.3.4. Army or Navy or Coast Guard Medical Treatment Facility. Medical care charges are incurred
  by an Air Force enlisted member, officer, or dependent of any member when hospitalized in an Army
  or Navy or Coast Guard MTF.
     49.3.4.1. Notification. The Army, Navy, or Coast Guard MTF should notify the patient of the
     charges and request payment. The DD Form 139 or attached documentation should state when the
     member was notified. If the member was not notified, the FSO must notify the member of the
     charges before taking collection action.
     49.3.4.2. Consent. If an enlisted member or officer has consented to deduction, collection action
     should be taken immediately.
     49.3.4.3. FSO Procedures. Review the DD Form 139 to verify that the debt is proper and docu-
     mentation complete. The collection must be a one-time deduction unless the debt exceeds
     two-thirds of pay. When the debt exceeds two-thirds pay, at least two-thirds of pay must be
     deducted with the balance collected the next month.
         49.3.4.3.1. Consent Signed. Within 3 working days, process a DS01 transaction with indebt-
         edness type E and the MTF's company code. The company code can be found in the miscella-
         neous section of table 50 or request one.
         49.3.4.3.2. Consent Not Signed. Notify the member of the debt if the DD Form 139 or
         attached documentation does not indicate the member was notified. Process a DS01 transac-
         tion, with indebtedness type E and the MTF's company code, 30 days after notification. If the
         company code is not found in the miscellaneous section of table 50, request one.
         49.3.4.3.3. Enlisted Member on Meal Card. Process a 4003 transaction for BAS entitlement
         for the period of hospitalization and a DS01 transaction for the medical care charges. Both the
         transactions must be processed in the same DJMS update to ensure the medical charge is offset
         by the BAS entitlement. Debt collection under this paragraph may not be prorated even if the
         debt exceeds two-thirds of pay.
     49.3.4.4. Separation. If the member has separated, return the DD Form 139 to the MTF stating,
     "Member separated (date), no action taken." Do not process a DS01 transaction.
  49.3.5. Civilian Medical Facility. An Air Force member who is hospitalized in a civilian medical
  facility will incur a medical care charge for subsistence for the period of hospitalization. The member
  is charged the daily rate as if hospitalized in a uniformed services MTF. In addition, an enlisted mem-
  ber on a meal card is entitled to BAS for the period of hospitalization.
     49.3.5.1. The civilian medical facility will bill the nearest Air Force MTF for the hospitalization.
     The Air Force MTF prepares an SF 1034 and forwards it to the local FSO for payment. The Air
     Force MTF completes the FSO notification letter in Figure 49.4. and forwards the notification let-
     ter to the member's local FSO. The local FSO forwards the notification letter to the member's ser-
     vicing FSO, if different from the local FSO.
     49.3.5.2. The member's servicing FSO notifies the member of the medical care charge and
     requests a cash payment, unless the member is enlisted and on a meal card. If the member refuses
804                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         or does not make payment in 30 days from notification, collection action must be taken as indi-
         cated below. The member is entitled to 30-days' notice before involuntary collection action,
         unless the member is pending separation.
             49.3.5.2.1. Officer or Enlisted Member on BAS. Process a DS01 transaction with indebted-
             ness type E and appropriation 57*3500 32* 561.01 525725. The collection should be a
             one-time deduction unless the debt exceeds two-thirds of pay. When the debt exceeds
             two-thirds of pay, at least two-thirds of pay must be deducted with the balance collected the
             next month.
             49.3.5.2.2. Enlisted Member on Meal Card. Process a 4003 transaction for BAS transaction
             for the period of hospitalization and a DS01 transaction for the medical care charges. Both
             transactions must be processed in the same DJMS update to ensure the medical care charge is
             offset from the BAS entitlement. The DS01 transaction must be processed with indebtedness
             type E and the appropriation shown in the notification letter. The collection may not be pro-
             rated even though the debt exceeds two-thirds of pay.
      49.3.6. Veterans Administration (VA) Facility. An Air Force member who is hospitalized in a VA
      facility will incur a medical care charge for subsistence for the period of hospitalization. The member
      is charged the daily rate as if hospitalized in a military MTF.
         49.3.6.1. The VA facility will bill HQ USAF/SG for the hospitalization. HQ USAF/SG pays the
         charges and completes the FSO notification letter in Figure 49.4. The notification letter is for-
         warded to DFAS-JMC/DE for action. DFAS-JMC/DE prepares a DD Form 139, attaches the noti-
         fication letter and forwards it to the member's servicing FSO.
         49.3.6.2. The member's servicing FSO will notify the member of the medical care charge and
         request a cash payment unless the member is enlisted and on ESM. If the member refuses or does
         not make payment in 30 days from notification, collection action must be taken as indicated
         below. The member is entitled to 30-days' notice before involuntary collection action, unless the
         member is pending separation.
             49.3.6.2.1. Officer or Enlisted Member on BAS (no DN). Process a DS01 transaction with
             indebtedness type E and the appropriation shown in the notification letter. The collection
             should be a one-time deduction unless the debt exceeds two-thirds of pay. When the debt
             exceeds two-thirds of pay, at least two-thirds of pay must be deducted with the balance col-
             lected the next month.
             49.3.6.2.2. Enlisted Member on Essential Station Messing (ESM). Ensure the DN is open and
             collecting. Process a DS01 transaction for the medical care charges. The DS01 transaction
             must be processed with indebtedness-type E and the appropriation shown in the notification
             letter. The collection may not be prorated even though the debt exceeds two-thirds of pay.
      49.3.7. Uniformed Services Treatment Facility (USTF). An Air Force member who is hospitalized in
      a USTF will incur a medical care charge for subsistence for the period of hospitalization. The member
      is charged the daily rate as if hospitalized in a military MTF. In addition, an enlisted member on ESM
      must continue to have the DN deduct the discounted meal charge rate for the period of hospitalization.
         49.3.7.1. The USTF will bill HQ USAF/SG for the hospitalization. The HQ USAF/SG pays the
         charges and completes the FSO notification letter. (See Figure 49.4.) The notification letter is for-
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            805


       warded to DFAS-JMC/DE for action. DFAS-JMC/DE prepares a DD Form 139, attaches the noti-
       fication letter and forwards it to the member's servicing FSO.
       49.3.7.2. The member's servicing FSO notifies the member of the medical care charge and
       requests a cash payment unless the member is enlisted and on a meal card. If the member refuses
       or does not make payment in 30 days from notification, collection action must be taken as indi-
       cated below. The member is entitled to 30-days' notice before involuntary collection action, unless
       the member is pending separation.
          49.3.7.2.1. Officer or Enlisted Member on BAS (no DN). Process a DS01 transaction with
          indebtedness type E and the appropriation shown in the notification letter. The collection
          should be a one-time deduction unless the debt exceeds two-thirds of pay. When the debt
          exceeds two-thirds of pay, at least two-thirds of pay must be deducted with the balance col-
          lected the next month.
          49.3.7.2.2. Enlisted Member on ESM. Ensure the DN is open and collecting. Process a DS01
          transaction for the medical care charges. The DS01 transaction must be processed with indebt-
          edness type E and the appropriation shown in the notification letter. The collection may not be
          prorated even though the debt exceeds two-thirds of pay.

49.4. Special Provisions:
   49.4.1. Pending Separation. For members pending separation, collection action must be taken imme-
   diately. The member should be notified of the medical care charges, but is not to be given 30-days'
   notice before collection action.
   49.4.2. Remission. When a member has filed a remission application for a medical care charge debt,
   the member's servicing FSO keeps the MTF advised of the remission status and results of the remis-
   sion application. If the member goes PCS before the remission application has been adjudicated, a
   copy of the application must be forwarded to the member's new servicing FSO. The FSO must advise
   the MTF as to the member's new servicing FSO.

49.5. Transaction Formats. For BAS/DN transaction formats - see Chapter 25. For DS transaction for-
mats - see Chapter 70.
806                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 49.1. Consent for Deduction From Pay.




                            CONSENT FOR DEDUCTION FROM PAY


I hereby certify that I am not able to make payment directly to the medical facility for charges of
(amount). I am requesting and consenting to immediate collection of these medical care charges from my
pay and understand the collection will be a one-time deduction.


Patient's name______________________________________


Dates/Time of admission and discharge__________________________


________________              ______________                     _______
Member's signature                  SSN                            Date




(TO BE COMPLETED BY AN OFFICER OR ENLISTED MEMBER WHO ASKS FOR A DEDUC-
TION FROM PAY FOR THE CHARGES)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             807


Figure 49.2. BAS Determination When Hospitalized.




                     BAS DETERMINATION WHEN HOSPITALIZED


MEMBER'S NAME


MEMBER'S SSN ______________            BASE ____________




_____I AM ON A MEAL CARD.




_____I AM RECEIVING BAS.




_____I DO NOT KNOW IF I AM ON A MEAL CARD OR RECEIVING BAS.


MEMBER'S SIGNATURE______________________ DATE_________




DATE AND TIME OF ADMISSION____________________________


DATE AND TIME OF DISCHARGE____________________________


_________________________ ______________________________
MSA SIGNATURE & TITLE                        DATE


(TO BE COMPLETED BY AN ENLISTED MEMBER WHO WAS A PATIENT AND PAID THE MED-
ICAL CARE CHARGES UPON DISCHARGE FROM THE MTF)
808                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 49.3. Follow-up Letter to FSO.


SUBJECT: Status of Collection Action


TO: ACFPM/Base


1.     The attached DD Form 139 was sent to your office for collection action. The debt is for medical
care charges. As of this date, we have not received notification of collection action or payment for the
charges.


2.    Request we be advised by (date) as to the status of the collection action and when we can expect
payment. If collection cannot be made, please notify us as to the reason.


3.     Questions concerning this debt can be referred to (name & number).




(Signed by MSA)                                     Atch
                                                DD Form 139


(TO BE FILLED IN AND SENT TO THE ADDRESSEE OF A DD FORM 139 IF THE MTF HAS NOT
RECEIVED A DROT/JUMPS DATA COLLECTION INPUT LIST, AS ANNOTATED COPY OF THE
139 OR PAYMENT IS NOT RECEIVED IN 30 DAYS)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          809


Figure 49.4. Notification of Hospitalization in Civilian Medical Facility, VA Facility, or USTF.I.


FROM: USAF MTF/SGM


SUBJECT: Member Hospitalized in a Civilian Medical Facility, Veterans Administration (VA) Facility,
or Uniformed Service Treatment Facility (USTF)


TO:


1.       In accordance with DFAS-DEM 7073-1, chapter 49, collection of medical care charges and/or
processing of BAS entitlement is required for members hospitalized in a civilian medical facility, VA
facility, or USTF.


2.       Request collection of medical care charges for subsistence be made for (NAME), (SSN) at the
rate of (DAILY RATE) for a total debt of (AMOUNT) for the period (DATE/TIME ADMISSION) to
(DATE/TIME DISCHARGE). The member was hospitalized at (FACILITY). In addition, for enlisted
members, request verification of BAS entitlement for the period of hospitalization.


3.     The appropriation to be credited for the charges is_______________


4.     If there are any questions, please contact (NAME AND NUMBER).
810                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 49.1. Required Pay Adjustments When Enlisted Member is Hospitalized.
                  A                        B                              C


R
U
        If an enlisted
L
E       member is              And                       then
    1 hospitalized in a        member paid charges       for members with a meal card,
      military medical                                   process a 4003 transaction for the
      treatment facility                                 period of hospitalization.
      (MTF)
    2                          member did not pay        MTF submits DD Form 139 to
                               charges                   servicing FSO (Military Pay) for
                                                         collection action. For members
                                                         with a meal card, process a 4003
                                                         transaction for the period of
                                                         hospitalization.
    3 hospitalized in a         meals furnished by the   MTF submits SF 1034 to the nearest
      civilian medical facility civilian facility are    FSO (Commercial Services) for
                                included in billing to   payment except in USAFE where
                                nearest Air Force MTF    MTF forwards SF 1034 to
                                                         OCHAMPUS, EUROPE. MTF
                                                         notifies local FSO (Military Pay) of
                                                         amount of charges to collect for
                                                         period of hospitalization. For
                                                         members with a meal card, process
                                                         a 4003 transaction for the period of
                                                         hospitalization.
    4 hospitalized in a       cost of meals is not       facility bills USAF/SG. Collection
      Veterans                collected by the VA or     of charges and processing 4003
      Administration facility USTF facility              transaction required as in Rule 3.
      or Uniformed Services
      Treatment Facility
      (USTF)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  811


Table 49.2. Required Pay Adjustments When Officer is Hospitalized.
                   A                       B                            C


R
U
L
E       If an officer is       And                       then
    1 hospitalized in a        member paid charges       no action required.
      military medical
      treatment facility
      (MTF)
    2                          member did not pay        MTF submits DD Form 139 to
                               charges                   servicing FSO (Military Pay)
                                                         for collection action. No BAS
                                                         adjustment required.
    3 hospitalized in a         meals furnished by the   MTF submits SF 1034 to the
      civilian medical facility civilian facility are    nearest FSO (Commercial
                                included in billing to   Services) for payment except
                                nearest Air Force MTF    in USAFE where MTF
                                                         forwards SF 1034 to
                                                         OCHAMPUS, EUROPE.
                                                         MTF notifies local FSO
                                                         (Military Pay) of amount of
                                                         charges to collect for period of
                                                         hospitalization.
    4 hospitalized in a       cost of meals is not       facility bills USAF/SG.
      Veterans                collected by the VA or     Collection of charges required
      Administration facility USTF facility              as in Rule 3.
      or Uniformed Services
      Treatment Facility
      (USTF)
812                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 49.3. Air Force Members and Dependents Hospitalized in Air Force Treatment Facility
(MTF).
            A                B                   C                      D                 E


R
U
L     Patient is an   and at                                                        and DFAS-DE
E     Air Force       discharge       then MTF will (note 1) and FSO will           will
 1 active duty        paid bill       clear accts receivable;   for enlisted
   officer,                           have enlisted member      member only,
   enlisted                           fill out BAS              verify/process
   member,                            determination. MTF        BAS for period of
   dependent of                       complete form & send      hospitalization
   any member                         to local FSO on AF        (MIL PAY).
                                      Form 1373, MPO
                                      Document Control
                                      Log-Transmittal
 2                    signed consent prepare DD form 139        process DS01        send check to
                                     and send to local FSO      transaction and for MTF at end of
                                                                enlisted member month.
                                                                only, verify/
                                                                process BAS (MIL
                                                                PAY)
 3                    no consent or   send bill and consent
                      payment         form to member on next
                                      business day. If no
                                      consent or payment
                                      received in 30 days,
                                      prepare DD Form 139
                                      and send to member's
                                      servicing FSO
 4 basic trainee,     is not asked to prepare DD Form 139       process BAS         send check to
   OTS member         pay bill        and send to member's      entitlement and     MTF at end of
                                      FSO                       DS01 transaction    month.
                                                                (MIL PAY)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               813


           A                B                   C                        D                   E


R
U
L    Patient is an   and at                                                            and DFAS-DE
E    Air Force       discharge       then MTF will (note 1) and FSO will               will
 5 retiree,          paid bill       Clear accounts
   dependent of                      receivable
 6 any retiree;      signed consent prepare DD Form 139         take collection        take collection
   annuitant;                       and send to local FSO       action; if no pay      action and send
   Guard/                           (retired) or DFAS-DE/       available, return      check to MTF
   Reserve                          FJP (Guard/Reserve)         DD Form 139            (Guard/
   member                                                       stating "No pay        Reserve).
                                                                available" (retired)
 7                   no consent or   send bill and consent to
                     payment         member next business
                                     day. If no consent or
                                     payment in 30 days,
                                     prepare DD Form 139
                                     and send to local FSO
                                     (retired) or DFAS-DE/
                                     FJP (Guard/Reserve).
NOTE: Send follow-up letter if no payment or notification received in 30 days.
814                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 50

                                      MENTALLY INCOMPETENT

50.1. Description. When a member's mental competency is in doubt, or when competency or incompe-
tency is established, certain pay-affecting actions are required. Servicing FSO retains responsibility for
member pending official determination of competency. When a member is officially declared mentally
incompetent, responsibility for pay service is transferred to DFAS-DE.

50.2. Substantiating Documents. Any one of these items is acceptable evidence of competency or
incompetency:
      50.2.1. A copy of AF Form 618, Medical Board Report, signed by chairman of the board and
      approved by the commander. This form may be accompanied by SF 502, Medical Record-Narrative
      Summary. It must specifically state that member is mentally incompetent to be acceptable evidence of
      that condition.
      50.2.2. A certified copy of court orders of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      50.2.3. A report of findings by an Army or Navy medical board.
      50.2.4. Determination of competency or incompetency by Veterans Administration.

50.3. Responsibilities. Servicing FSO retains responsibility for member pending official determination
of competency. When a member is officially declared mentally incompetent, responsibility for pay ser-
vice is transferred to DFAS-DE.
      50.3.1. Medical Board. General provisions for appointing and convening a medical board to which a
      patient is referred for physical evaluation are in AFI 36-3212. If patient is believed to be mentally
      incompetent, this also applies:
         50.3.1.1. Board must consist of at least three qualified medical officers, one of whom is specifi-
         cally qualified to treat mental disorders.
         50.3.1.2. When an Air Force member is a patient in a federal hospital, board is appointed by head
         of department or agency providing medical treatment from among any medical officers or physi-
         cians reported to be available by the hospital manager.
         50.3.1.3. When an Air Force member is a patient in a hospital under United States jurisdiction,
         board is appointed by the Secretary of the Air Force from among any medical officers reported to
         be available by the Surgeon General of the Air Force.
      50.3.2. Initial Notice. When the competency of a member confined to a service hospital becomes
      doubtful, commander of the hospital notifies member's FSO by letter. FSO immediately forwards a
      copy of this letter to servicing MPF.
      50.3.3. Discharge or Retirement for Physical Disability. MPF will submit final separation transaction
      for member.

50.4. FSO Actions. Upon receipt of notice under paragraph 50.2.2. takes the following action:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             815


   50.4.1. Local Payee. Suppresses all regular local payments. Resume payments only upon notifica-
   tion that member is mentally competent.
   50.4.2. Central Payee. Notify DFAS-DE/FJFB by DSN or message to suppress central payment. If
   member is found mentally competent notify DFAS-DE/FJPC to resume payments.
   50.4.3. If support of dependents is required. (See Chapter 57.)
   50.4.4. Upon receipt of appropriate documentation (see paragraph 50.1.), FSO removes pay suppres-
   sion to resume regular local payments if the member is found competent, or to transfer member's man-
   agement file to DFAS-DE/FJPC if found incompetent. See subparagraph 50.4.1. above for procedures
   when central payee is found competent.
   50.4.5. Data Elements and Codes. Pertinent codes and their uses are:
      50.4.5.1. Status Pending Determination of Competency or Incompetency. See Chapter 49. Input
      as action indicator 03--report or 04--change.
      50.4.5.2. Member Found Incompetent. Input as action indicator 04--change; format identification
      SU--mentally incompetent.
      50.4.5.3. Member Subsequently Returned to Competency. DFAS-DE/FJ prepares appropriate
      input; no input is required from base level.
   50.4.6. Management File Entry. Servicing FSO notes all status actions in memoranda section of case
   file. Include citation to voucher payment for comfort items.
   50.4.7. FSO Actions. FSO, upon receiving notice that a member has been officially declared men-
   tally incompetent, sends to DFAS-DE/FJPC:
      50.4.7.1. copy of AF Form 618 and copy of SF 502, unless previously forwarded;
      50.4.7.2. substantiating documents to support any change in the MMPA;
      50.4.7.3. statement as to whether a legal guardian has been or will be appointed, and, if appoint-
      ment has been made, a certified copy of the court order; and
      50.4.7.4. if no court appointment is contemplated, name, address, and relationship of any relative
      who might be eligible to act as trustee. Any person, preferably in order of precedence shown
      below, is eligible if at least 21 years old:
          50.4.7.4.1. lawful wife or husband of incompetent (age requirement may be waived in this
          case);
          50.4.7.4.2. legitimate or legally adopted son or daughter of incompetent;
          50.4.7.4.3. either parent or both parents of incompetent;
          50.4.7.4.4. head of institution where member is committed; or
          50.4.7.4.5. any other person(s), if such designation is in the best interest of the incompetent.
      50.4.7.5. ATRAS Travel History Print. If this document is not maintained by same FSO, the FSO
      advises custodian to submit the history print to DFAS-DE by AF Form 1209, Document Transmit-
      tal (DJMS).

50.5. Effect on MMPA:
816                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      50.5.1. Continues accruals of other entitlements unless stopped by separate input.
      50.5.2. Continues regular central payments for deposit to member's account until status is changed to
      mentally incompetent.

50.6. Special Provisions. Comfort Items While in Hospital. Upon determination (actual or pending) that
a member is mentally incompetent, the commander of the medical facility may designate an officer of that
command to receive a sum of no more than $10 per month to purchase comfort items for the use and ben-
efit of the patient, provided patient has no other funds available for such use. Member must be able to use
items purchased, must desire such items, and they must be beneficial to his or her comfort and well-being.
Funds are receipted for by the designated officer and are accounted for as described by the Director of
Base Medical Services. (See AFI 41-120, paragraph 10-40.)
      50.6.1. Local Payment. Make payment as partial pay (see Chapter 36). Include on voucher the name
      of the member in whose behalf payment is made and authority for payment. Obtain receipt for funds
      from officer designated to receive them.
      50.6.2. Central Payment. If payment is requested after member's management file has been trans-
      ferred to DFAS-DE, advise DFAS-DE/FJPC by priority precedence message to make payment to
      officer designated to receive funds.

50.7. DFAS-DE Actions. Member Subsequently Returned to Competency. DFAS-DE/FJPC prepares
appropriate input; no input is required from base level.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                      817


Figure 50.1. Format to Change Status to Mentally Incompetent.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0SU04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD STATUS STARTED
818                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                Chapter 51

                                            MISSING STATUS

51.1. Description. Missing Status is defined in the Definitions in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, as including
missing, missing in action, interned in a foreign country, captured, beleaguered, besieged by a hostile
force or detained in a foreign country against member's will. Policy on entitlements and the authority to
make payments to persons in missing status are contained in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 3.

51.2. Substantiating Documents. DD Form 1300, Report of Casualty, issued by AFPC, is the official
document reporting a member absent in a status covered by the Missing Persons Act.

51.3. FSO Actions. Within 48 hours after receiving DD Form 1300, FSO:
      51.3.1. Submits all related documents with management case file to DFAS-DE/FJP. Include:
         51.3.1.1. Copy of "missing" telegram message.
         51.3.1.2. Copy of DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data.
         51.3.1.3. ATRAS travel history print or DD Form 1588, Record of Travel Payment, as applicable.
         51.3.1.4. Unpaid travel claims, DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher, showing itiner-
         ary with applicable orders.
         51.3.1.5. Any MPOs, documents, or orders authorizing a change in member's pay account (for
         example, start hostile fire incentive pay (HFIP), start BAQ because dependents terminated gov-
         ernment quarters, etc.).
         51.3.1.6. Any other information pertaining to the situation which would assist DFAS-DE in main-
         taining the pay account.
      51.3.2. Sends Management Case File (MCF) with above documents by AF Form 1209, Document
      Transmittal (DJMS). Mark MCF, envelope, and transmittal form in red, "Missing in Action." (See
      Chapter 2.)

51.4. Effect on MMPA. When DFAS-DE/FJP processes an SM04, the MMPA is affected as follows:
      51.4.1. The member's status will change from SA to SM.
      51.4.2. The servicing ADSN will change to 3897; however, the paying ADSN will not change.
      51.4.3. The LH entry will remain open.
      51.4.4. FITW and SITW, if applicable, will stop, as the pay of members in SM status is not subject to
      withholding. (See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 44 through 54.)
      51.4.5. BAS, type H, will start for enlisted members effective the date of the SM status. (See DoD-
      FMR, Volume 7A, chapters 32 through 37.)
      51.4.6. BAQ at the without dependents rate will be started for single members, effective date of the
      SM status, if the member was not previously receiving BAQ. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 32
      through 37. For other MIAs, entitlement continues as it was prior to SM status.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              819


   51.4.7. Clothing Replacement Allowance (CRA) will stop, the CRA future will be deleted and the
   member will be paid CRA from the date of the last payment through the end of the month that the SM
   status started, since CRA does not accrue while a member is in SM status. (See DoDFMR, Volume
   7A, table 34-2, note 2.)
   51.4.8. If the member's ETS expires while in an SM status, pay and allowances will continue per 37
   U.S.C. 552.
   51.4.9. Leave continues to accrue without regard to the 60/90 day limitation. (See DoDFMR, Volume
   7A, chapters 32-37.)

51.5. Special Provisions:
   51.5.1. Member declared dead. (See Chapter 54.)
   51.5.2. Member Returned to Military Control.
       51.5.2.1. Continuing MCF. If member returns to military control before MCF is sent to
       DFAS-DE, the FSO having custody of MCF maintains it in the normal manner. Return copy of
       DD Form 93 to appropriate MPF or personnel activity.
       51.5.2.2. Notice to DFAS-DE of Member's Return. If member returns to military control after
       MCF has been sent to DFAS-DE, MPF serving the activity to which member first reports to mili-
       tary control notifies DFAS-DE/FJP by priority message.
       51.5.2.3. Transfer of MCF and Maintenance of MMPA. When DFAS-DE receives notice that
       member has returned to military control, DFAS-DE/FJP sends MCF to proper FSO. A summary
       of MMPA and allotments paid by DFAS-DE is furnished. DFAS-DE also returns copy of DD
       Form 93, which the FSO then forwards to appropriate MPF. If member is to be evacuated to
       United States for prolonged hospitalization or medical treatment, or is to be returned for separa-
       tion or other reason, DFAS-DE does not transfer servicing responsibility to the overseas station,
       but instructs overseas station concerning partial payments.
       51.5.2.4. Partial Payments. FSO servicing the activity to which returned member reports initially
       may make partial payments to member. If doubt exists as to the amount due, request from
       DFAS-DE amount authorized for payment. In making partial payment, follow procedures in
       Chapter 36.
       51.5.2.5. Full Settlement. DFAS-DE sends servicing FSO a one-time pay authorization for
       arrears of pay and allowances accrued through date of return to military control or last regular pay-
       day, as appropriate.
       51.5.2.6. Leave Settlement. Leave accumulated while in a missing status is accounted for sepa-
       rately and paid as soon as possible after member is removed from missing status.
       51.5.2.7. BAQ/BAS Stop. When member returns to duty, BAQ and BAS stop. Servicing FSO
       verifies the correct types of BAQ and BAS if any, and reestablishes the entitlements.
   51.5.3. Cancel of Missing Status (SM06). If MIA is canceled (SM06), the member's pay reverts to
   the posture prior to SM status. SM06 generates a U103 management notice to DFAS-DE requiring a
   review, to ensure correct entitlements are started, and a PT03 to re-establish clothing allowance.

51.6. DFAS-DE Actions:
820                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      51.6.1. DFAS-DE/FJP prepares input to establish missing status on member's MMPA based on DD
      Form 1300, prepared per AFI 36-3002. This input continues member in a pay status as if "present for
      duty." Direct deposit of pay and allotments continue to the same location as prior to the change to SM
      status. DFAS-DE/FJP monitors the member's account and works with dependents on any requests for
      changes (DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 32 through 37).
      51.6.2. Input format. DFAS-DE prepares all input for computer processing relevant to a missing sta-
      tus.
      51.6.3. Administration of Pay Accounts:
         51.6.3.1. Statutory Authority. Chapter 10, 37 U.S.C., authorizes continued payment of pay and
         allowances for military members in a missing status.
         51.6.3.2. DFAS-DE Servicing Responsibility.
             51.6.3.2.1. DFAS-DE/FJP administers the pay accounts of all military members in a missing
             status. DFAS-DE is governed by the member's designation providing it is in the best interest
             of all concerned, and within these criteria, DFAS-DE exercises final authority. Administration
             of the pay account includes:
                 51.6.3.2.1.1. Maintenance of the MCF;
                 51.6.3.2.1.2. Administration of allotments to dependents or others designated to receive a
                 member's pay while member is in a missing status. This includes receipt and processing of
                 all applications for start of an allotment, or increase in existing allotments, by or on behalf
                 of dependents of the member with proper identification and demonstration of need;
         51.6.3.3. Determination of facts about dependency;
         51.6.3.4. Deposits to and withdrawals from existing SDP accounts of military personnel.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           821


                                              Chapter 52

                                        FINAL SEPARATION

52.1. Description. The Definitions in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, defines separation as discharge, release
from active duty, retirement, death or in the case of enlisted members, the date when they begin to serve
on a voluntary extension of enlistment for any period of time.

52.2. Substantiating Documents:
   52.2.1. DFAS Form 702, Air Force/Army Leave and Earnings Statement (Active and Reserve Force).
   DFAS-DE re-computes member's pay, issues any residual payments due member, closes member's
   pay account, and sends a separation LES to member's future mailing address at DOS plus 20. An LES
   for the new category is not issued until next EOM restructure (for example, member separated on 18
   March; an LES in the new category is issued as a result of EOM March processing).
   52.2.2. AF Form 350, Separation Pay Worksheet. AF Form 350 will be accomplished on every sep-
   aration. All manual computations will be audited and certified by other than the person who prepared
   the form prior to payment release and filed in SWF.

52.3. Responsibilities. DFAS-DE computes separation pay and generates final pay authorizations
(PQ61). However, FSOs must ensure payments are proper even for authorizations generated by
DFAS-DE. If no PQ61 is received and the separation transaction will be processed before the next regular
cutoff, include the amount of the member's net pay and allotments in the final pay computation.

52.4. FSO Actions. The FSOs must:
   52.4.1. Advise members that if a financial organization or allotment recipient fails to return a pay-
   ment or allotment, a debt for that amount will result.
   52.4.2. Suppress payments and stop allotments if necessary. After cutoff, contact DFAS-PMJSAA/
   DE to pull allotment payments before mailing, if possible. DFAS-PMJSAA/DE can be reached at
   DSN 926-7171, FAX number: DSN 926-6878.
   52.4.3. Advise members that final payment made on separation may be adjusted by DFAS-DE, based
   on a detailed computation of all valid transactions affecting the MMPA, and that the final LES will
   reflect these adjustments.
   52.4.4. Create a suspense file for all members the FSO places in a T status (i.e., ST04). The chief,
   customer service must review the suspense file monthly to ensure a member is not in a T status
   over 30 days. If the T status continues, contact the MPF to process the necessary transactions to
   either re-enlist, return the member to A status, or separate the member. Do not remove a case from the
   suspense file until the appropriate transactions have processed.
   52.4.5. Once the transaction has flowed to separate the member, DJMS will automatically accelerate
   the collection of open debts. The FSO must review these debts and ensure that the collection rate does
   not exceed two-thirds collection. For debts being collected under 5 USC 5514 (i.e. VA, DOE) sus-
   pended these debts. If there are any monies from final pay, these debts may be collected then.
   52.4.6. Maintain close coordination with the member's servicing MPF to ensure separation transac-
   tions are processed in a timely manner.
822                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


52.5. Special Provisions. When regular pay is suspended because of final separation activity, the MMPA
is placed in ST status (T status). The suspension reason code appearing on the MMPA further identifies
the cause and conditions of the suspension. For all codes, regular pay authorizations have been zeroed. If
T status processes after cutoff for the pay period in which DOS occurs, pay authorizations can be out-
standing for after-DOS payment even though MMPA is in T-status. However, allotments may or may not
be paid for the month of DOS, depending on whether the member is retiring and the T-status processed
before end of month (EOM) cutoff for the month of DOS. Suspension reason codes are often cited in
communications between FSO and DFAS-DE technicians.
      52.5.1. Hardship Discharge. If a member assigned overseas obtains a hardship discharge while on
      leave in CONUS, the overseas FSO initiates PCS to CONUS base and overseas MPF initiates the
      E503 (separation). The gaining CONUS FSO processes PCS arrival, then handles separation as the
      servicing FSO.
      52.5.2. Terminal Leave. If a member assigned overseas is sent PCS to another base for terminal
      leave, the overseas FSO submits the PCS departure, the overseas MPF submits the E503 and the gain-
      ing FSO handles the separation as servicing FSO. The losing MPF includes the AF Form 988, Leave
      Request/Authorization, in member's records sent to the gaining MPF who sends it to the new servicing
      FSO for processing.
      52.5.3. Administrative or Medical Hold. If the MPF updates a member's ETS/DOS before the next
      scheduled payday, no manual pay computation is required. If a separation transaction is submitted,
      the local MPF processes an E506 transaction. The MPF extends the member's DOS (E6) for 90 days
      to adjust the ETS/DOS. Any further extensions are accomplished in monthly increments. If a separa-
      tion transaction is submitted, the local MPF extends the DOS for 3 months. These cases are managed
      by the MPF and FSO on a case-by-case basis. When necessary, the FSO confirms status for pay and
      allowances with the MPF for any period beyond current DOS and manually computes payments.

52.6. Payment Processing. Request all separation payments be made by DFAS-PMJS/DE using daily
EFT procedures. If a member has a valid waiver for EFT participation, payment may be made locally.
Separation payments are not authorized before DOS (member’s DOS is used as effective date on CICS
transaction ID “JPBB”), however, reserve officers who are authorized travel time may be paid separation
pay on the day before starting travel. NOTE: Once an MMPA goes to “V” (separated) status, daily EFT
is no longer available. Daily EFT does not process any “V” status account payments. Open “PX” pay
authorizations reflecting ADSN of 3885, after the MMPA is in “V” separated status, must be paid by the
FSO, using local procedures, and posted to the MMPA as a PQ payment.
      52.6.1. For central payees, CICS trans ID ‘JPBB’ and ‘JPBX’ are used to request and confirm pay-
      ment. A PQ03 payment transaction is generated and posted to the members pay record when the sep-
      aration payment is sent to the member’s financial institution (see paragraph 38.9.3 for a more detailed
      explanation of the ‘JPBB’ and ‘JPBX’ CICS trans ID).
      52.6.2. For local payees, enter a payment transaction (PQ) on every monetary separation. Do not post
      separation payments as a partial (PK) or casual (PC) payment (see Figure 52.6. for the PQ format).
      52.6.3. Final separations are updated at DOS plus 20 days. The MMPA is closed and if any residual
      money is due the member, a PQ authorization is generated. If the new pay authorization has an ADSN
      of 3885, it is the responsibility of the last servicing FSO to make payment locally, since daily EFT will
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            823


   not process for V status accounts. If the new pay authorization has an ADSN of 3892, DFAS-PMJ-
   CAC/DE will forward residual amount to member’s local address.
   52.6.4. A manual computation is required on every separation. Once the manual computation is com-
   plete, pay 100% of the computed amount. The only reason for not paying 100% is specified in Figure
   52.2. If the amount paid the member does not equal the amount authorized, follow procedures in para-
   graph 52.14.6.3.

52.7. Separation Indebtedness Report. A monthly report of all separation debts is provided to all major
commands and FSOs. Debt information is included on each separatee. Review the report and determine
corrective action necessary to prevent future occurrences. Inquiries concerning separation debts are
directed to MAJCOM. MAJCOMs contact DFAS-PMJPO/DE (Debt and Claims Management).

52.8. Separation Processing Procedures for Overseas Members. Members stationed overseas imme-
diately prior to separation have the option of separating at any other base. NOTE: If the MPF processes
an E-3 transaction, notify the MPF immediately to cancel and submit an E-5. No input of an E-3 is autho-
rized.
   52.8.1. Option 1 - Member elects to separate at a base in CONUS. Members electing this option will
   be considered in a PCS status for entitlement purposes. No PCS advances are authorized. Member
   will hand carry the out-processing checklist and a completed AF Form 350. With the exceptions
   below, members will be normally separated.
       52.8.1.1. Losing FSO processes an SH03 transaction with an effective date of the port call to stop
       overseas allowances. Inform members that they must report to the base of choice before starting
       leave or permissive TDY. PTDY is for transition purposes, house hunting/job hunting, and will
       not be taken overseas if the member elects this option. Permissive TDY (PTDY) and terminal
       leaves are approved by the losing commander, prior to departure, on AF Form 988. If the AF 988
       shows a address of overseas, return it to the orderly room. Do not process. If PTDY is not taken
       in conjunction with terminal leave, and is used as a stand alone, the losing orderly room assigns
       the leave number and processes the leave accordingly. If the PTDY is taken with the terminal
       leave/DOS, the gaining FSO assigns both the PTDY and leave numbers and processes both after
       arrival. AF Form 988 is hand carried by the member to the CONUS processing base. NOTE: If
       terminal leave is taken in conjunction with PTDY, FSO may issue a leave number more than 14
       days prior to the effective date of terminal leave. This ensures both the PTDY and terminal leave
       are processed prior to member's departure.
       52.8.1.2. The gaining FSO processes an SG03 transaction to complete the PCS. Obtain a copy of
       the travel voucher from the travel SMA for use as the source document. If the arriving member is
       already in 'T' status, generated by the E503, the SG will not process, contact local MPF to cancel
       the original E5. After cancellation, input the SG, leave, etc., and notify MPF to re-accomplish the
       E503.
       52.8.1.3. Adjustments to pay and entitlements affected by the PCS, may be required (i.e., VHA,
       Single BAQ, BAS). Start interim VHA for members with dependents, effective on date of arrival,
       using the zip code for the CONUS processing base. If VHA is already paying, for dependents,
       continue the same rate and zip code. Start BAS, Type B, for all enlisted members, using one.
824                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         52.8.1.4. Gaining FSO pays 100 percent of final separation pay on the member's DOS, no sooner.
         A manual computation will be accomplished to verify against the final authorization since adjust-
         ments may not be accomplished in time. Local FSO is responsible for any open pay authorization
         under 3885 that appears after the MMPA goes into “V: status. This payment is made by the FSO,
         using local payment procedures, and posted to the MMPA as a PQ payment.
      52.8.2. Option 2 - Members electing to separate under this option will be completely separated by the
      overseas FSO. Under this option, the member elects to return to CONUS and not out-process through
      a base. Normal CONUS separation procedures will be used. As with option 1 above, no PCS
      advances are authorized. 100 percent of the final separation payment will be made by the losing FSO
      on the member's DOS, after confirmation is received from the MPF that the member arrived in
      CONUS. Do not make the final payment until the member's DOS and only after the MPF has con-
      firmed contact with the member. Local FSO is responsible for any open pay authorization under 3885
      that appears after the MMPA goes into “V” status. This payment will be made by the FSO, using local
      payment procedures, and posted to the MMPA as a PQ payment.
         52.8.2.1. Leave numbers for a stand alone PTDY will be assigned by the orderly room. Leave
         numbers for terminal PTDY (no terminal leave taken) can be assigned by either the orderly room
         or the FSO. Effective date of the PTDY/terminal leave is the day after the member’s port call.
             52.8.2.1.1. For members who are separating overseas but taking PTDY/terminal leave else-
             where, stop all station allowances effective the day before the PTDY/terminal leave effective
             date.
             52.8.2.1.2. PTDY/terminal leave cannot be taken overseas unless the member provides docu-
             mentation containing the host country’s approval for the member to separate overseas. In this
             case, the station allowances continue until the member’s DOS.
         52.8.2.2. All overseas station allowances must be manually stopped prior to departure from the
         overseas area, effective the day before the port call. If the member is receiving VHA for depen-
         dents in CONUS, the VHA entitlement continues. No new VHA is authorized for arrival in
         CONUS.

52.9. What-If Separation Processing. The on-line "What-If" Separation Processing System is a unique
system that is designed to produce a quick automated pay computation for separations where the separa-
tion transaction (E5) has not been submitted to DJMS by MPF. The What-If process does not update the
MMPA; therefore, manual adjustments must be made for all unposted transactions at the time of separa-
tion.
      52.9.1. FSO:
         52.9.1.1. Accesses the What-If through CICSJ3 by keying in "JPAM." Follow the directions on
         the screen.
         52.9.1.2. During the What-If processing all E573s are processed and member's separation pay is
         computed. The system appears "down" during this time (a few minutes).
         52.9.1.3. After processing, a facsimile LES print can be requested in JPAM (Ref Attachment 2,
         this regulation) and FSO will receive prints.
         52.9.1.4. File the facsimile LESs in SWF.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             825


   52.9.2. DFAS-DE:
       52.9.2.1. After LESs are requested and printed at the FSO, E573 transactions are deleted from the
       files and new E573 transactions may be received.
       52.9.2.2. If E573 fails to process, an error code revealing why a transaction failed to process will
       be issued.
   52.9.3. Time period. This system will compute the member's separation pay any time within the
   10-day window prior to member's DOS in the "What-If" E573 transaction.
   52.9.4. Helpful Hints:
       52.9.4.1. Since the What-If system emulates the DJMS, any transaction that would reject under
       DJMS, will also reject in What-If.
       52.9.4.2. Negative figures will appear on the facsimile LES when the E573 is submitted between
       MER and the end of the current month and the DOS is also in current month. (Example: E573,
       with DOS 28 APR, is submitted 28 Apr. Since we are now in May posture, LES will reflect neg-
       ative figures).

52.10. Computation of Separation Pay. FSOs are required to explain the separation pay to the separa-
tee. Use the What-If Separation system, or the AF 350, manual computation. NOTE: AF 350 is required
on every separation.
   52.10.1. PQ61 includes amounts due for disability severance pay, readjustment pay, variable separa-
   tion incentive, selective separation bonus, lump sum leave sold, and any other separation pay due the
   member.
   52.10.2. Disability severance pay is included in the PQ61 generated by DJMS. This amount is based
   upon data furnished in the separation transaction. DJMS will tax disability severance pay for mem-
   bers with a continuous active service date of 25 Sep 1975 or later, per DoDFMR, Volume 7A, para-
   graph 350404.
       52.10.2.1. If disability severance pay was taxed and the member meets the exception criteria in
       DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 35, notify DFAS-DE/FJPS by message and request a TD Form
       W-2C. Do not make a payment for taxes that are to be refunded. DFAS-DE/FJPS will make a
       supplemental payment when tax reports to IRS or state are reconciled and TD Form W-2C is
       issued.
       52.10.2.2. If the member has an open debt (ADSN 3891), in addition to standard data pertinent to
       the member's separation, a message must be sent to DFAS-PODE/DE (Debt and Claims Manage-
       ment) providing the reason or authority for not taxing the disability severance pay so they can
       make necessary adjustments and issue the TD W-2C.
   52.10.3. Discharge Gratuity. If the member qualifies for discharge gratuity under the provisions of
   the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 35, paragraph 3506, the amount authorized is reported in the E5
   transaction and creates an open PQ on the MMPA. If the amount has not been reported with the E503
   transaction, and has not created an open PQ payment and set up a case for discharge gratuity in the
   case management system (CMS). Include entitlement amount and payment date in the remarks area
   of CMS.
826                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      52.10.4. All other amounts included in PQ61 are taxed as appropriate and included in the TD Form
      W-2 issued at the end of the year.
      52.10.5. Open Debts. Upon receipt of an E5, DJMS re-computes the repayment schedule for debts
      established on the MMPA to determine if the current repayment schedule will liquidate the debt by the
      DOS in the E5. All open debts, except those suspended by action indicator 18, will be re-computed.
      If the current repayment schedule will not liquidate the debt by the DOS in the E5, a new repayment
      schedule is generated and an XD03 management notice is sent to the servicing FSO, advising of the
      new repayment schedule. The two-thirds rule still applies unless the member has consented to a
      higher rate of collection. If the acceleration of the debts exceeds the two-thirds rule, process the nec-
      essary change (04) transaction to decrease the collection rate. If any of the accelerated debts are being
      collected under 5 USC 5514 (i.e. VA, DOE), suspend these debts. If monies are available from the
      member’s final pay, collect then. NOTE: If advance pay was paid based on a signed DD Form 2560,
      Advance Pay Certification/Authorization, withholding may be increased to a rate of 100 percent of the
      member's current or final pay to satisfy the repayment before DOS.
      52.10.6. Anticipated Debts. Since no actual debt exists prior to a member's DOS in some circum-
      stances, withholding of pay for an anticipated debt is not authorized unless the member consents in
      advance. For cash collection of an anticipated debt, see Chapter 69. Such withholding of pay may
      be done when the member has consented to the withholding at the time of the payment/request. By
      virtue of signing the form, the member has given prior consent to start collection of the following
      anticipated debts.
         52.10.6.1. Recoupment of unearned SRB. A bonus paid based on a signed AF Form 901, Reen-
         listment Eligibility Annex to DD Form 4, dated August 1990. Process a held pay transaction.
         52.10.6.2. Advance Leave. Leave charged from AF Form 988 (September 1991 edition) which
         exceeds the member's leave balance at DOS. The withholding begins as soon as notification of a
         pending separation is received from a reliable source at a rate of withholding sufficient to satisfy
         the anticipated debt no later than the member's requested/projected DOS. This may necessitate
         withholding 100% of the member's current or final pay as authorized by the signed consent state-
         ment. Process a held pay transaction.
NOTE: Withholding may still be accomplished if a earlier version of the form was used for the request,
however, the two-thirds rule must be applied.
         52.10.6.3. Advance pay. As in advance leave above, member has given prior consent to offset by
         signing DD Form 2560, Advance Pay Certification/Authorization. Process a DT04 transaction to
         increase monthly withholding.

52.11. Separation Pay Adjustment Code. This code in the PQ61 or XS03 indicates if the regular pay
authorization is outstanding for the pay period in which DOS occurs. The amount in the PQ/XS is based
on data posted to the MMPA before the notice was prepared. FSO must check to ensure all recent trans-
actions posted before the PQ/XS was created and if not, adjust the PQ/XS accordingly. Check for any
rejected transactions as well as unposted payments (other than regular pay) or leave. If an unposted trans-
action will increase the amount due the member, increase only the net amount. Any residual will be paid
when the MMPA is closed at DOS + 20.
      52.11.1. Code 1: Regular pay authorizations are zero for pay periods ending on or after DOS. (Note
      1)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            827


   52.11.2. Code 2: Mid-month pay will be paid by DFAS-DE. PQ/XS allows for such payment.
   (Notes 1 and 2)
   52.11.3. Code 3: Same as code 2 but for EOM pay. (Notes 1 and 2)
   52.11.4. Code 4: PQ/XS does not include mid-month pay amount. If you suppress mid-month pay,
   add that amount to the PQ or subtract that amount from the XS and pay the adjusted amount. (Notes
   2 and 3)
   52.11.5. Code 5: Same as code 4 but for EOM pay.

NOTES:
     1. Pay amount shown in the PQ61 or collect amount in XS03.
       2. The regular pay authorization outstanding includes payment for entitlements as though mem-
          ber were on active duty through last day of pay period, regardless of actual DOS. The PQ/XS
          has been adjusted to collect the regular pay authorizations overpayment.
       3. If regular pay for mid-month or EOM is not suppressed, pay amount of the PQ61 or collect the
          amount of the XS03. If collection of the indebtedness is not possible, and regular pay could
          not be suppressed, contact DFAS-PMJS/DE immediately.

52.12. MPF Procedures. Inputs E503 for separations as early as possible (up to 120 days before DOS).
Inputs change or cancel transactions when needed.

52.13. DFAS-DE Procedures. Actions apply to all separations except as otherwise stated.
   52.13.1. Issues zero regular pay authorization when the E5 is received before cutoff for pay period of
   DOS. If an E5 is received after DOS, the PQ61 is reduced by the amount of regular pay for pay period
   in which DOS occurs. The separation pay adjustment code advises FSO of regular pay authorization
   status.
   52.13.2. Stops Allotments. For non-retirees, allotments are automatically stopped at the end of the
   month prior to month of separation with the exception of VEAP. If member is retiree, allotments are
   allowed to continue through month of DOS. If E5 is received after month-end cutoff for month of
   DOS, allotments for non-retirees are stopped month of DOS and the PQ61 is reduced accordingly and
   can cause a debt at DOS.
   52.13.3. Issues advisory separation notices and authorizations:
       52.13.3.1. If E5 is received 10 or more days before DOS, issues an XS03 (advance debt notice) to
       the servicing FSO on the day the E5 processes. E5 will recycle until 10 days before DOS and
       issue PQ61 or XS03 (advance debt notice).
       52.13.3.2. If E5 is received after DOS, issues no notices or authorizations. It is assumed that the
       member has separated and the FSO has manually computed separation pay and made a payment.
   52.13.4. Re-computes separation and closes MMPA. At DOS plus 20, DFAS-DE posts recycling
   PQ03 and re-computes separation settlement to include any transactions posted to the MMPA since
   the PQ61 was issued. MMPA is placed in separated (V) status. If the member is due a residual
   amount, after the MMPA goes into V status, and the open pay authorization reflects ADSN 3885,
   DFAS-DE does not pay. The local FSO makes this payment using local payment procedures. If the
828                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      open pay authorization reflects 3892, DFAS-PMJCAC/DE will make the payment via hard copy
      check. If the member’s MMPA reflects and ADSN of 3891, there is an open debt on the MMPA.
      52.13.5. Issues TD Form W-2. Normal W-2 processing at the end of the calendar year for all separa-
      tees.

52.14. Servicing FSO Procedures:
      52.14.1. On first notification that member is separating, reviews and updates member's SWF. Files
      all pay-affecting documentation (including separation or retirement orders), received from date of
      notification of separation in SWF, starts action to resolve any suspense items, and inputs any delin-
      quent or required transactions. Maintains SWF for 6 months after MMPA goes into V status.
      52.14.2. Members receiving BAQ for primary dependents must re-certify their entitlement prior to
      departing on terminal leave or PCS to new servicing FSO for separation, unless re-certification has
      been accomplished within the last 6 months.
      52.14.3. When a member retires, allotments are paid through month of retirement if sufficient pay is
      available. Allotments paid through month of retirement (except charity, and Air Force Assistance
      Fund) are transferred to member's retired pay account. Only 15 allotments can be transferred to
      retired pay. Member must review allotments and advise FSO to stop or change allotments no later
      than month before month of retirement. For example, if retirement date is in June, stops must not be
      later than 31 May.
      52.14.4. Allotments for non-retirees are stopped end-of-month before separation except for allot-
      ments to Veteran's Educational Assistance Program (VEAP). If there is enough pay due member, the
      VEAP allotment is stopped the month of separation; if not, the allotment is stopped month before sep-
      aration. Starts or increases must be processed before MMPA is placed in T-status.
      52.14.5. On receipt of XS03, conducts research to determine cause of debt projected at DOS and noti-
      fies member. Takes action to collect indebtedness by DOS.
      52.14.6. On receipt of the PQ61 or XS03:
         52.14.6.1. Checks separation pay adjustment code in PQ61 or XS03. If code 4 or 5 shows local
         pay authorization outstanding, determine whether the local pay authorization will be suppressed or
         check canceled and, if so, adjust PQ61 or XS03 accordingly.
         52.14.6.2. Checks for transactions not yet posted to MMPA when PQ61 or XS03 was issued (the
         PQ61 and XS03 contain month and day issued). Checks for rejected transaction. Gives particular
         attention to ensuring that all leave transactions and any partial payments have processed. Adjusts
         PQ61 or XS03 accordingly.
         52.14.6.3. If the amount paid the member on final separation does not equal the amount autho-
         rized, determine the reason. If there are unposted item(s), do the input necessary immediately so
         that they post to the MMPA or set up a case on ACCS which will be transferred to CMS by the
         CMS system. If unable to post the items, set up a case in CMS. If the problem is future tax deduc-
         tions that are not actually posted to the MMPA yet, do not set up a CMS case. Monitor the MMPA
         until it goes into V status. If taxes are posted erroneously when the MMPA goes into V status, set
         up a case in CMS for taxes and specify which item was taxed erroneously. If the MMPA is in 3891
         debt status, no CMS case is required.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            829


  52.14.7. Uses LES, MMPA, and other data available at base to calculate amount due at separation if
  no PQ61 or XS03 is received from DFAS-DE. Decreases amount due for questionable items.
  52.14.8. For central payees, use the CICS trans ID ‘JPBB’ to make the payment (see paragraph 38.9.3
  for a more detailed explanation of the ‘JPBB’ CICS trans ID process). For local payees, make the
  payment with check or cash and process the PQ03 for the amount paid.
  52.14.9. Attempts to make a cash collection and process a C203 to repay any debts. If not possible,
  process debt transactions.
  52.14.10. Advise member that DFAS-DE will re-compute his or her pay account at DOS plus 20. If
  pay was computed in error, issue a payment for any remaining residual existing under the ADSN of
  3885. If DFAS-DE had to manually adjust any entitlements or deductions on the MMPA for any rea-
  son, and any remaining residual exist under ADSN 3892, DFAS-PMJCAC/DE will mail a hard copy
  check to the member. No claim is required. If recomputation shows indebtedness, DFAS-PODE/DE
  (Debts and Claims Management) will notify member and take collection action.
  52.14.11. When notified of a separation pending within 30 days, check the MMPA for an NN (sepa-
  ration transaction rejected) or N7 (separation transaction accepted) entry. Notify MPF if neither entry
  is present. Review MMPA every few days until N7 is present. If MMPA is not in T status by 10 days
  before DOS, input ST04. Review SWF weekly and, if trouble persists with the E503 processing, ver-
  ify with MPF that member has actually separated or retired. After you have verified member actually
  separated and is not reenlisting or extending, stop allotment(s) month prior to member’s DOS. If too
  late for prior month stop, stop month prior to current month’s processing posture. If member is a
  retiree, not a separatee, and you have verified with MPF member physically retired; verify allot-
  ment(s) has started on the retired pay system and then stop allotment(s) on member’s T status MMPA.
  If member is a retiree, not a separatee, and you have verified with MPF member physically retired;
  verify allotment(s) has started on the retired pay system and then stop allotment(s) on member’s T sta-
  tus MMPA. If you have verified with local MPF that member retired and there is no retired pay record
  established, contact your MAJCOM immediately with this problem. MAJCOM must send email to:
  AFPC,DPPRR@RANDOLPH.AF.MIL to alert them to the fact that the member does not have a
  retired pay account established. Once the retired pay account is established and allotment(s) started in
  retired pay, stop allotments on T status MMPA.
  52.14.12. At DOS minus 9 days, check MMPA for NT (projected separation settlement) entry. The
  NT contains the PQ61 or XS03 amounts computed on DOS minus 10 days. If no NT is present by
  DOS, a manual pay computation is required. Monitor MMPA posting of pay and leave transactions in
  pipeline as well as posting of the NT entry.
  52.14.13. Payment Computation:
     52.14.13.1. With an NT Entry Present check MMPA for multiple NT entries. Use amounts in lat-
     est entry. If NT RECOMP-PNDG-INDCTR is 1, a pay-affecting transaction posted to the MMPA
     will alter the NT and will be included after the next MMPA update. For members on terminal
     leave, verify that an open SB entry is on the MMPA. Verify that all recent FSO-submitted trans-
     actions are posted. Adjust PQ61 or XS03. If adjustment changes the PQ61 amount to a debt,
     check regular payment and allotment entries to determine whether regular pay or allotments will
     be paid after DOS (as a result of separation transaction being received after cutoff). Suppress or
     cancel local regular pay. Call DFAS-PMJSAA/DE to stop or recover central pay or allotments, if
     possible. Do not make separation payment on assumption that DFAS-DE will stop or
830                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      recover an after-DOS payment. If the latest NT is an XS03, check regular payment and allot-
      ment entries for regular pay authorizations or allotments to be paid after DOS. Suppress or cancel
      local regular pay. Call DFAS-PMJSAA/DE to stop or recover central pay or allotments, if possi-
      ble. Do not make separation payment on assumption that DFAS-DE will stop or recover an
      after-DOS payment.
      52.14.13.2. NT Entry Not Present. No separation transaction was received or the separation
      transaction rejected. Manually compute the separation settlement. If member the member’s
      MMPA is not in T status, process ST04 and set up a case on CMS for the E5 processing problem,
      if one is not already established. Stop allotments following the logic in paragraph 52.14.11. Ver-
      ify all terminal leave taken is posted. Verify all recent FSO submitted transactions are posted.
      Manually compute separation settlement and pay separated member 100% of all monies due him
      or her through DOS. Complete AF Form 350 for every separation. If the amount paid on separa-
      tion is different that the NT authorized, FSO must research the difference and either process the
      unposted items causing the difference, or set up a case in CMS for unposted item. If the difference
      is tax deductions, do not set up a case in CMS until the MMPA goes into V status. If taxes are not
      corrected when the MMPA converts to V status and the MMPA is not correct, set up a tax case on
      CMS at that time. CMS case number should be referenced in member’s SWF. If computation
      results in a debt and central pay or allotments will be paid after DOS, call DFAS-PMJSAA/DE to
      see if pay or allotment can be recalled. Do not make payment on assumption that
      DFAS-PMJSAA/DE will stop or recover after-DOS payments. File completed AF Form 350 in
      SWF.
      52.14.13.3. If member completed a PCS within 60 days or there are outstanding leave or payment
      transactions that were not known on the day the pay computation was done, monitor the MMPA
      until payment is made and all other appropriate transactions have posted.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            831


Figure 52.1. FSO Separation Actions.


                      BASIC OVERVIEW OF SEPARATION PROCESSING


E5 transactions can be submitted by MPF up to 120 days prior to DOS.


       a. The FSO should:


               (1) Establish a Separation Work File (SWF) from the E5 on the MPF JUMPS Transaction
Register (JTR) and annotate the SWF with the JTR date and transmission number of the E5. NOTE: At
this time, check the member's MMPA for possible debts: recoupment of SRB, excess leave, DF and DV
that need repay rate adjustment.


               (2) Take appropriate actions to ensure collections are made prior to DOS. Ensure collec-
tion guidance is adhered to.


                 (3) Compare JTR to ETS BLIS/FSO information system listing. If no E5 and member is
on BLIS/FSO information system listing, contact MPF and verify ETS. Actions depend on results of ver-
ification. If E5 submitted and member is not on listing, contact MPF and verify ETS. Actions depend on
results of verification.


               (4) An N7 is established on the MMPA when the E5 is processed.


       b. At DOS minus 30, FSO receives an XS management notice.


               (1) Member will be in debt at DOS.


               (2) File XS management notice in SWF.


        c. At DOS minus 30, FSO contacts member to determine if member wants separation payment
sent to existing financial institution/account number or a different financial institution/account number
(see Figure 52.2. for specific FSO actions).


       d. At DOS minus 10:
832                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


               (1) FSO requests LES print. LES output is reviewed for outstanding suspense items. File
in SWF.


               (2) NT line is established on the MMPA and pay authorization (PQ) is sent to the FSO (or
if the member is in debt, an XS03 is sent).


              (3) Before final payment, always check for unposted/rejected transactions and adjust PQ
accordingly. Perform manual computation using AF Form 350, Separation Pay Worksheet. File AF 350
in SWF. As long as pay authorization belongs to servicing FSO, the servicing FSO must make the pay-
ment. This includes V status members with open PX pay authorization under ADSN of 3885.


                (4) If amount paid and PQ authorized differ, FSO must research the difference and either
process the unposted items causing the difference or set up a case in CMS for the unposted item. If the
difference is tax deductions, do not set up a case in CMS until MMPA goes into V status. If taxes are not
corrected when the MMPA converts to V status, and the MMPA is not correct, set up a tax case in CMS at
that time.




NOTES:


1. PQ61/XS03 not received at DOS minus 10 and E5 has been submitted:
       a. Check for proper processing of E5 transaction. Check MMPA for an NN entry.
       b. If transaction rejected back to MPF, member would have an NN entry with the reject code.
Contact MPF to re-input.
       c. If no NN entry, check the DTR to see if in a recycle or reject status.
      d. To find out which DTR to check, start with date E5 was submitted (from the JTR provided by
MPF) and the E5 should be on that day's DTR.
2. If E5 has not been submitted, contact MPF to input transaction. What-If system can normally be uti-
lized for any short notice separations; however, a manual computation will be done on all separations
using AF Form 350.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          833


Figure 52.2. FSO Actions - Normal and Short Notice Separations.


                          FSO ACTIONS - SEPARATION PROCESSING
                                (NORMAL AND SHORT NOTICE)


FSO actions upon a receipt of notification of a member's separation:


        a. The following procedures will apply for servicing FSOs and are to be followed for normal sep-
arations as well as short notice. The FSO is required to use an FSO separation processing checklist
on all separations. You may use checklists developed at base-level, MAJCOM or DFAS-DE.


              (1) Upon notification from any reliable source of a pending separation, including:


                      (a) MPF-JTR (JUMPS transaction register),


                      (b) Receipt of a copy of separation orders,


                      (c) Advance notification, via telecon, from the MPF or member's unit,


                      (d) Or PTI 970, Request for Early Separation.


                     (e) Any administrative action initiated by the squadron or the MPF for the purpose
of discharging a member prior to normal date of separation (DOS). Establish a Separation Work File.


              (2) Perform the following actions when the case file has been established:

                       (a) Check the management case files (MCF) for established or pending debts, or
other information that would affect the member's pay, and transfer it to the SWF.


NOTE: Refer to the DoDFMR (DoD Financial Management Regulation), Volume 7A, chapter 50 con-
cerning collection of debts.


                      (b) Annotate the SWF with the JTR date and the transmission number of the E5.


               (3) At DOS minus 30, FSO contacts member to determine where member wants final sep-
aration pay sent.
834                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                       (a) If member elects a different financial institution than current “LH”, he/she
must fill out an SF 1199A and attach a voided check.


                         (b) FSO coordinates with member as to the exact date member wants the new
financial institution to be effective. Set up a suspense and process the “LH04” to the member’s MMPA so
the new financial institution information will be effective the date the member elects.


                     (c) If member wants all separation pay to go to current financial institution, make
a note of date member was contacted and his/her option and put in member’s SWF.


               (4) From DOS minus 30 to minus 10, record XF/XS data in the SWF in the following
manner:


                      (a) dollar amount


                      (b) number of days accrued leave


                      (c) date separation notice received


               (5) At DOS minus 9 days:


                        (a) Complete an AF Form 350, Separation Pay Worksheet, required for all
separations - short notice or normal.


                      (b) Contact the organizations identified in Section I of the AF Form 350 and file
in the SWF.

               (6) At DOS minus 4 days:


                      (a) Obtain LES history prints and review for outstanding suspense items.


                      (b) Verify the final separation computation on the AF Form 350.


                      (c) File the AF Form 350 in the SWF.


                    (d) Request a new Pay History Print (T20/T21) if the NT authorization line
amount has changed and cannot be reconciled without a complete manual re-computation.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             835


                      (e) Compare information from the T20/T21 to the computation shown on the AF
Form 350.


                      (f) Ensure all transactions have processed and, if not, adjust the payment and file
in the SWF.


NOTE: If member is separating from overseas, the member will hand carry a copy of the AF Form 350,
and separation checklist.


               (7) On DOS:
                     (a) Compare the latest NT amount to the manual computation amount and pay-
ment.


                      (b) Adjust accordingly.


                     (c) It is not necessary to call DFAS-PMJCAC/DE for a payment control number.
Once final pay computation has been accomplished at base-level, FSO must make final payment to sepa-
rated member on member’s DOS or any day thereafter. This includes members in V status with open pay
authorization of ADSN 3885. DFAS-PMJCAC/DE is only responsible for open pay authorizations in V
status with ADSN of 3892.


               (8) No matter when the member’s DOS is established:


                      (a) Member must obtain a separation checklist from the FSO prior to out process-
ing.


                     (b) Is required to visit all base agencies noted on the checklist to ensure the FSO
has complete information regarding possible indebtedness.


NOTE: Up to 45 percent of the member's total projected final separation pay may be withheld if the sep-
aration checklist was not complete, or for potential or anticipated debts. This is the only time monies may
be withheld. Otherwise, 100 percent of the final pay will be paid.
836                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 52.3. Separation Suspension Reason Codes.
                       SEPARATION SUSPENSION REASON CODES


      CODE     DESCRIPTION


       T-1     Fraudulent enlistment pending.


       T-2     Unconfirmed accession. Accession confirmation from AFPC has not been
               received.


       T-3     Separation confirmation transaction (MN03) received from AFPC, but no
               separation transaction received. Allotments will be stopped.


       T-4     Expiration of term of service (ETS) and DOS have passed, but no separation
               transaction received. Allotments not stopped since reenlistment or extension
               usually occurs.


       T-5     Separation transaction received from MPF, but rejected and created an NN memo
               entry. Allotments will be stopped.


       T-6     ST04 placed MMPA in T status. Allotment stop optional, as specified in ST04
               transaction.


       T-7     Separation transaction received and accepted and created an N7 memo entry.
               Allotments will be stopped. MMPA will be closed at DOS plus 20.

       T-8     Same as T-7 except that MMPA will close at DOS plus 40, to allow pending
               transactions to process.


       T-9     Appellate Review Leave.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                837


Figure 52.4. Format to Report/Change or Cancel Final Separation.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       BE403/04 OR BE503/04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF PROJECTED DATE OF SEPARATION


     26-28      SEPARATION DESIGNATION NUMBER-OFFICER


      OR


     26-28      SEPARATION DESIGNATION NUMBER-ENLISTED


       29       NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS TO DETERMINE BAQ RATE FOR ACCRUED
                LEAVE COMPUTATION. ZERO IF NOT APPLICABLE


     30-31      NUMBER OF DAYS TRAVEL TIME FOR RESERVE MEMBER. ZERO FOR
                ALL OTHERS


     32-34      NUMBER MONTHS OF SERVICE FOR COMPUTING DISABILITY
                SEVERANCE PAY. ZERO IF NOT APPLICABLE


     35-37      NUMBER MONTHS COUNTABLE FOR COMPUTING SEPARATION/
                READJUSTMENT SEVERANCE PAY. ZERO IF NOT APPLICABLE


     38-43      AMOUNT OF READJUSTMENT PAY OR MUSTERING-OUT PAY
                PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED AND NOT REFUNDED. ZERO IF MEMBER DOES
                NOT QUALIFY FOR READJUSTMENT PAY OR HAS NOT RECEIVED
                PREVIOUS PAYMENTS


     44-45      GRADE FOR COMPUTING DISABILITY SEVERANCE PAY. ZERO FOR
                MEMBERS NOT ENTITLED TO DISABILITY SEVERANCE PAY
838                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       46     CHARACTER DISCHARGE CODE:
              1—HONORABLE
              2—GENERAL
              3--UNDER CONDITIONS OTHER THAN HONORABLE
              4—UNDESIRABLE
              5--BAD CONDUCT--LESS THAN 6 MONTHS SERVICE, UNSATISFACTORY
              PERFORMANCE OR MISCONDUCT
              6—DISHONORABLE
              7--UNDETERMINED (DEFERRED BY SPECIAL DIRECTIVE)
              USE CODE 8 ONLY WHEN APPELLATE REVIEW OR SECURITY
              INVESTIGATION IS NOT COMPLETED. ZERO IF SPC IS ONE FOR WHICH
              CHARACTER OF DISCHARGE IS NOT DESIGNATED
              9--ENTRY LEVEL SEPARATION


      54-57   GRATUITY AMOUNT. ZERO IF GRATUITY IS NOT AUTHORIZED


              NUMBER OF YEARS SERVICE SHOULD BE ROUNDED TO THE NEAREST
              FULL YEAR--COUNT FRACTIONS OF 6 MONTHS OR MORE AS 1 YEAR.
              DROP FRACTIONS OF LESS THAN 6 MONTHS. NUMBER OF YEARS
              SERVICE FOR READJUSTMENT



       1-5    1E403/04 OR 1E503/04

      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-48   STREET PORTION OF MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS


       1-5    2E403/04 OR 2E503/04


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              839


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   15-19  FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-39    CITY PORTION OF MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS


    41-42    STATE PORTION OF MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS


    44-48    ZIP CODE APPLICABLE TO FUTURE ADDRESS SHOWN


     49      1 (FOR DOMESTIC ADDRESS)


     OR


    20-48    NAME OF TOWN, CITY, COUNTRY PROVINCE OR OTHER LARGER
             FOREIGN LOCATION THAT WILL BE MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING
             ADDRESS


     49      2 (FOR FOREIGN ADDRESS)


     OR


    20-24    ARMY, AIR FORCE OR NAVY MILITARY POST OFFICE NUMBER THAT
             WILL BE MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS

     49      3--IF ADDRESS IS APO NUMBER
             4--IF ADDRESS IS FPO NUMBER


     1-5     0E406/0E506 (SAME CODE SHOWN IN SEPARATION INPUT TO BE
             CANCELED)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    YYMMDD OF CANCELED DATE OF SEPARATION. DOS IN LAST INPUT
             TO DFAS-DE IF CHANGE TRANSACTION HAS BEEN SUBMITTED
840                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 52.5. Change Separated Member’s Address.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      ALF04 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       21       DOMESTIC OR FOREIGN ADDRESS INDICATOR:
                1--DOMESTIC ADDRESS
                2--FOREIGN ADDRESS
                3—APO
                4—FPO


      23-51     STREET ADDRESS


       1-5      1LF04--DOMESTIC ADDRESS (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      21-40     CITY


      42-43     STATE


      45-49     ZIP CODE


       1-5      1LF04--FOREIGN ADDRESS (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                   841


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    21-49    FOREIGN MAILING ADDRESS


     1-5     1LF04--APO/FPO ADDRESS (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    21-25    APO/FPO ZIP CODE
842                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 52.6. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Separation Pay.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0PQ03/06 OR APQ05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


      27-30     ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

      32-39     VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-48     AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


      49-51     CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


       65       RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              843


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    67    CHECK DIGIT (COMPUTER GENERATED)


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
844                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 52.7. Format to Release PQ Authorization.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0PQ26


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF ONE-TIME PAY AUTHORIZATION


       26       GOVERNMENT-AGENCY: A--AIR FORCE


      27-30     PAYING ADSN


      32-39      VOUCHER-NUMBER


      40-48     AMOUNT OF ONE-TIME PAYMENT


      49-51     CLEARING-ACCOUNT-ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 845


Figure 52.8. Format to Change/Cancel Suspended Status.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0ST04/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


       32       6 IN ALL CASES


       33       ALLOTMENT STOP CODE:
                1--WILL NOT STOP ALLOTMENTS
                2--WILL STOP ALL ALLOTMENTS


       34       ALLOTMENT VA REASON CODE:
                A—DEATH
                E--DISCHARGED OTHER THAN COURT-MARTIAL
                H--COURT-MARTIAL (OTHER THAN MUTINY, TREASON, ETC.)
                T—RETIRED


                A ZERO PAY AUTHORIZATION IS ALWAYS ISSUED BY A ST04
                TRANSACTION. A ST06 TRANSACTION REINSTATES A MEMBER IN A
                PAY STATUS BUT IT CANNOT RESTART ALLOTMENTS.
846                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 52.9. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Last Active Duty Officer Status.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0TD05


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       55        PRIOR-SERVICE-MILITARY-DEPARTMENT CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B—ARMY
                 C—NAVY
                 D—MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


      59-64      DOS-LAST-ACTIVE-DUTY-OFFICER-STATUS: YYMMDD OF DOS OF LAST
                 ACTIVE DUTY, OFFICER STATUS; ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE


                 NOTE: IF PRIOR-SVC-MIL-DEP IS BLANK AND DOS-LAST-AD-OFF-STATS
                 IS ZERO-FILLED, THE MEMBER'S TD MPA ENTRY IS REMOVED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           847


                                              Chapter 53

                                         REENLISTMENTS

53.1. Description. Provisions for reenlistment bonuses are contained in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter
9 and in Chapter 12 of this volume.

53.2. Management Notices and Memo Entries:
   53.2.1. There are four specialized MMPA memoranda entries which relate to reenlistments. These
   entries appear on the MMPA and can be displayed on the terminal.
       53.2.1.1. N7 - Reenlistment, Extension, Reentry - Change of Category (ENL to OFF), or Separa-
       tion Transaction Pending. Contains transaction data held for full MMPA processing. Reenlist-
       ments and monetary extensions fully process DOS plus 9. Non-monetary extensions (ERC 911)
       and change of category (enlisted to officer) fully process on DOS.
       53.2.1.2. NN - Reenlistment, Extension, Reentry - Change of Category (ENL to OFF), or Separa-
       tion Transaction Rejected. Contains data of rejected E5 transaction. Shows error code and if
       transaction rejected to MPF or DFAS-DE. Output control code E means transaction rejected to
       input source. Output control code N means transaction rejected to DFAS-DE. NN entry is deleted
       when acceptable transaction is received.
       53.2.1.3. NT - Separation Reentry Projected Settlement. Contains the amount computed for the
       PQ61 or XS03 management notice and the days of accrued or excess leave. A new additional NT
       entry is generated whenever leave or pay transactions process between computation of the first NT
       and DOS (E5 processing only). However, no new PQ61 or XS03 notice is issued.
       53.2.1.4. NQ - Reenlistment, Extension, Reentry - Change of Category (ENL to OFF), or Separa-
       tion Payment to be Posted. Number contains payment data from PQ transactions pending posting
       as a PQ when the reenlistment, extension, change of category, or separation transaction is fully
       processed. PQ payment will also be posted when NQ entry is present and an E506 or E606 (can-
       cellation) transaction is processed, causing a debt in the amount of the payment.
   53.2.2. E6, Separation with immediate reentry on active duty. MPF input, used when member reen-
   lists, enters a voluntary extension, or goes from enlisted to officer status.
NOTE: Change of category from officer to enlisted status requires E5 separation transaction with an E2
accession transaction.
   53.2.3. If member is not changing categories, an LES is not issued. In that case, remarks concerning
   reenlistment or extension of enlistment and remarks concerning reenlistment bonus and accrued leave
   appear on the next LES.
   53.2.4. DD Form 4, Enlistment/Reenlistment Document-Armed Forces of the United States. DD
   Form 4 must be reviewed before releasing a reenlistment bonus payment.
   53.2.5. Notice of Recycling/Unposted PQ Payment (XK04). An XK04 notice is generated on the
   25th and 42nd days after receipt of the PQ03 payment transaction if a reenlistment or extension trans-
   action has not processed and updated the MMPA. The XK04 is generated to the FSO unless the trans-
   action has rejected to DFAS-DE and requires FSO and MPF coordination. The PQ03 transaction also
   produces an MIR management notice at the 42nd day point. MPF should ensure reenlistment or
848                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      extension transaction was input and that rejected transactions are corrected and re-input. If manual
      intervention is required to clear a reject from MPF, or to correct an erroneous transaction that has
      updated the MMPA, the MPF must send a message to DFAS-PMJ/DE. FSO determines validity of
      payment. Payment FID may be erroneous or payment received after a non-monetary reenlistment or
      extension transaction updated the MMPA.

53.3. Source of Input. The MPF is responsible for reporting E6 transactions to DFAS-DE up to 120 cal-
endar days before projected DOS. The FSO is responsible for reporting reenlistment entitlement pay-
ments (PQ) based on PQ61 pay authorization or FSO manual computation.
NOTE: When a member reenlists to obtain retainability for a program leading to a commission, the
member is not entitled to Selective Reenlistment Bonus (SRB). When a member reenlists and is later
accepted into a program leading to a commission, all future SRB installments are suspended. AFPC iden-
tifies members affected by these programs. If SRB is erroneously paid or future SRB installments require
suspension, AFPC notifies DFAS-DE.

53.4. Output Products from DFAS-DE. The following output products are transmitted via JDC when
an E6 transaction is received:
      53.4.1. One-Time Pay Authorization (PQ61). If member is entitled to reenlistment bonus, a one-time
      pay authorization is generated to the FSO. Reenlistment bonuses are paid via EFT. The pay authori-
      zation is sent to the servicing FSO and is produced by the DJMS updates between DOS minus 10 days
      and DOS plus 9 days, depending on when the E6 is received at DFAS-DE.
      53.4.2. New End-of-Month or Mid-Month Pay Authorization. If a separation or reentry involves a
      change of status (ENL to OFF, etc.) or no category change occurs (reenlistment) but pay entitlements
      are changed, a new pay authorization is generated.

53.5. Computation and Payment of One-Time Payments. One-time payments and authorizations
include all entitlements due a member upon reenlistment or entering first extension (SRB, accrued leave,
etc.) less appropriate deductions (FITW, SITW, recoupment of bonus). FITW/SITW amounts are not
refunded on recoupment of Regular Reenlistment Bonus (RRB). If member is not due money for reenlist-
ment or extension, an authorization for $0 is generated to the servicing FSO for information purposes
only. FSOs must ensure propriety of payment even if an authorization is generated by DFAS-DE.
      53.5.1. Report of Initial Payment. If the member is a local payee, input a PQ03 transaction to report
      the initial payment to the member. If the member is a central payee, use CICS trans ID ‘JPBB’ to
      request DFAS-PMJ/DE make EFT payment to the member (see paragraph 38.9.3 for a more detailed
      explanation of this payment process). The payment will be reported by central site. If no payment
      transaction is received by DOS plus 9 days, DFAS-DE processes the reenlistment/extension transac-
      tion and, if member is due money, issues a PQ11 authorization to the servicing FSO. FSO may pro-
      cess a PQ26 to release amount into member’s next regular paycheck at member’s request.
      53.5.2. Report of Subsequent Installment Payments. For central payees, the payment for annual or
      advance SRB installments will be paid through the electronic funds transfer system (EFTS). This PL
      payment will be generated from the central site. For local payees, the PL payment is required for pay-
      ment of annual or advance installments of SRB. If a PL payment is received, but no PL authorization
      is present on the MMPA, the PL payment will recycle (recycle code RRU). Recycling PL payments
      do not appear on the MMPA, but will appear on the DTR of the payment input source. DFAS-DE will
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            849


   update the MMPA with bonus entitlement if authorized. If PL is an erroneous report,
   DFAS-PMJSAB/DE deletes payment from recycle and posts PL as partial (PK) payment. The delet-
   ing and posting action should be requested by message from the field. FSO does not make the annual
   SRB installment payments.
   53.5.3. Delinquent Pay Authorization. If a member is due money from a reenlistment or extension,
   and the amount paid is less than the amount due, or the payment transaction was not received when the
   E6 transaction was fully processed, a PQ11 authorization is generated to the servicing FSO. This
   authorization becomes delinquent after the next month-end restructure. If PQ11 amount is correct and
   the member is a central payee, the FSO uses CICS trans ID ‘JPBB’ to make the payment to the mem-
   ber (see paragraph 38-9C). The FSO may, if the member elects not to receive individual payment,
   release the PQ11 amount into the member’s next paycheck by processing a PQ26 transaction (see Fig-
   ure 52.7.). Exception: If the authorization is for enlisted portion of pay for month the member is
   commissioned, FSO pays the amount of the authorization and reports PQ payment using clearing
   account P530.
   53.5.4. Out-of-Balance Payments. If a payment is reported for less than the amount authorized, the
   old authorization on the MMPA is closed and a new authorization is opened for the amount of the dif-
   ference between the original authorization, and the amount of the actual payment made. If a payment
   is made for this additional amount to a local payee, it must be posted immediately as a PQ03. If the
   payment is made to a central payee, using CICS trans ID “JPBB” (see paragraph 38.9.3), central site
   will post the PQ03. PQ03 payments reported prior to E6 processing will not cause an out-of-balance
   condition on the MMPA but will generate a PQ11 for the difference between the amount paid and the
   amount authorized.
   53.5.5. Erroneous Payment. If a member is erroneously paid a bonus payment, take the following
   steps:
      53.5.5.1. Process a C9 transaction (see Chapter 76 for format).
      53.5.5.2. Coordinate with DFAS-DE to ensure detail processing of the C1/C2 transaction (see
      Chapter 65) is accomplished in conjunction with the reversal of the entitlement. DFAS-DE will
      process the reversal of bonus entitlements and refund FITW.
      53.5.5.3. Check MMPA daily until all actions have processed. For proration, see procedures con-
      tained in Chapter 69 of this volume.

53.6. Establishment of New Pay Account - Reenlistment or Extension of Enlistment:
   53.6.1. DFAS-DE Action. If a change of status is involved, DFAS-DE takes actions outlined in para-
   graph 53.6.1. If a change of status is not involved, DFAS-DE:
      53.6.1.1. Starts Armed Forces Retirement Homes (AFRH) deduction if member was previously in
      a Reserve component and did not have AFRH deduction.
      53.6.1.2. Continues all other entitlements, deductions, and allotments.
   53.6.2. Base Input. If a change in any other entitlement or deduction occurs because of separation,
   specific stop or start input must be submitted. For example, if orders authorizing BAS do not remain
   in effect on reenlistment, submit normal input to stop BAS as of DOS. If member is drawing flight
   pay non-crew, and entitlement is to continue, submit normal input to start incentive pay. This entitle-
   ment is stopped on DOS by separation and reenlistment program.
850                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


53.7. Establishment of New Pay Account - Separation with Change of Status:
      53.7.1. DFAS-DE Actions. DFAS-DE establishes these entitlements and deductions in new period of
      service:
         53.7.1.1. Basic pay
         53.7.1.2. Both BAQ and BAS for officers
         53.7.1.3. FICA and FITW deductions (except additional tax withholdings)
         53.7.1.4. Indebtedness deductions at same monthly rate
         53.7.1.5. SGLI deductions (if in effect before separation) at same monthly rate
         53.7.1.6. MGIB pay reduction (if previously in effect)
NOTE: Allotments are automatically continued.
      53.7.2. Base Input. Submit input to stop any of the above items when applicable. Input is required to
      start, restart, or report entitlements and deductions not continued by DFAS-DE, including:
         53.7.2.1. BAQ for enlisted members
         53.7.2.2. FSA
         53.7.2.3. BAS for enlisted members
         53.7.2.4. Overseas station allowances
         53.7.2.5. Incentive pays
         53.7.2.6. Uniform allowance for officers
         53.7.2.7. VHA
         53.7.2.8. Savings Deposit Program
         53.7.2.9. Held pay transactions, if necessary
         53.7.2.10. Special Duty Pay
         53.7.2.11. Additional tax withholding
         53.7.2.12. Debts - if a notice of debt is received and the debt will not be satisfied with pay for
         remaining portion of month in new status, submit a repayment schedule to establish monthly
         deduction. When debt is created because of separation as enlisted member early in a month, a
         repayment schedule need not be submitted if pay as an officer for the rest of the month will satisfy
         the debt.
         53.7.2.13. DDP deduction

53.8. Claims. These rules apply:
      53.8.1. A claim may be submitted to DFAS-POCC/DE for any entitlement which a member feels due
      but which was not paid on separation or reentry. A claim is necessary for lump-sum reserve bonus to
      an officer. (See Chapter 74.)
      53.8.2. A member who believes he or she is entitled to a reenlistment bonus may submit a claim for
      it, if not paid. In that case, complete documentation of prior enlistment and prior bonuses paid must
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     851


  be submitted. In some cases, reenlistment bonus pay authorizations are merely deferred by DFAS-DE
  because entitlement cannot be determined immediately (i.e., an officer reenlisting as an airman).
852                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 53.1. Format to Report/Change or Cancel Separation with Immediate Reentry on Active
Duty.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0E603/04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF PROJECTED SEPARATION. ACTUAL DATE OF SEPARATION
                OR LAST DATE BEFORE EXTENSION BEGINS


      26-28     DATA CHANGE IDENTIFIER SHOWING REENTRY AS AIRMAN/OFFICER


       29       NUMBER OF PERSONS DEPENDENT ON MEMBER FOR DETERMINING BAQ
                RATE TO USE IN ACCRUED LEAVE COMPUTATION


       30       LEAVE SETTLEMENT CODE:
                1--IF ERC IS 900, 901, 905, 909 OR 911 AND MEMBER ELECTS SETTLEMENT
                OF ACCRUED LEAVE
                2--FOR OTHER MEMBERS ELECTING TO CARRY LEAVE FORWARD
                7--FOR MEMBERS ELECTING PARTIAL LEAVE SETTLEMENT WHEN ERC
                EQUALS 900, 901, 905, 909 OR 911


       31       VOLUNTARY EXTENSION NUMBER OF THIS EXTENSION:
                1 FOR FIRST
                0 FOR SECOND OR LATER
                ZERO IF ERC IS NOT 909 OR 911 OR IF NOT AN EXTENSION TRANSACTION


       32       NUMBER OF YEARS FOR WHICH MEMBER WILL REENLIST OR ZERO IF
                NEW SERVICE PERIOD IS INDEFINITE OR IF NEW PERIOD IS EXTENSION
                OF CURRENT ENLISTMENT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                853


CHARACTER                               DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    33-34    NUMBER OF MONTHS PROJECTED EXTENSION IF EXTENDED. ONLY
             INCLUDE MONTHS FOR THE CURRENT EXTENSION. ZEROES IF REENTRY
             IS OTHER THAN EXTENSION OF REENLISTMENT


     35      SERVICE COMPONENT CODE IN WHICH NEW DUTY WILL BE PERFORMED:
             C-CADET
             G--NATIONAL GUARD
             T--TEMPORARY
             R--REGULAR
             V--RESERVE
             BLANK FOR EXTENSION OF ENLISTMENT


     36      1--ALL REENLISTMENTS (UNLESS APPROVAL FOR 2)
             2--UP TO 23 MONTHS FORGIVEN OBLIGATED SERVICE


     37      SRB BONUS TYPE:
             1—IF REENLISTMENT OF FIRST-TERM AIRMAN AS DEFINED IN AFI 36-2606
             A--IF SRB IS AUTHORIZED AND MEMBER IS IN ZONE A
             B--IF SRB IS AUTHORIZED AND MEMBER IS IN ZONE B
             C--IF SRB IS AUTHORIZED AND MEMBER IS IN ZONE C
             ZERO FOR ALL OTHER MEMBERS




    38-40    SRB MULTIPLIER CODE WHICH DETERMINES AMOUNT OF SRB:


             SRB MULTIPLIER – USE 000 IF MBR NOT ENTITLED TO SRB
             005 – 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY       010 – 1 MONTH BASIC PAY
             015 – 1 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY     020 – 2 MONTHS BASIC PAY
             025 – 2 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    030 – 3 MONTHS BASIC PAY
             035 – 3 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    040 – 4 MONTHS BASIC PAY
             045 – 4 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    050 – 5 MONTHS BASIC PAY
             055 – 5 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    060 – 6 MONTHS BASIC PAY
854                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                                DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


              065 – 6 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    070 – 7 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              075 – 7 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    080 – 8 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              085 – 8 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    090 – 9 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              095 – 9 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY    100 – 10 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              105 – 10 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY   110 – 11 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              115 – 11 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY   120 – 12 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              125 – 12 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY   130 – 13 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              135 – 13 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY   140 – 14 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              145 – 14 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY   150 – 15 MONTHS BASIC PAY
              155 – 15 1/2 MONTHS BASIC PAY


       41     SRB PAYMENT OPTION:
              0—NO SRB PAYMENT AUTHORIZED
              1—IF SRB IS TO BE PAID BY ANNUAL INSTALLMENTS
              2—IF TOTAL SRB IS AUTHORIZED TO BE PAID IN ONE PAYMENT
              3—IF SRB IS TO BE PAID 50% WITH REMAINING EQUAL INSTALLMENTS
              ZEROS IF MEMBER IS NOT ENTITLED TO SRB


      42-43   REENTRY GRADE:
              01-10, 21-24 OR 31-39 FOR GRADE MEMBER REENTERS ON ACTIVE
              SERVICE. ZERO IF MEMBER REENTERS IN SAME GRADE


      44-49   DOS PREVIOUS ENLISTMENT: YYMMDD MEMBER WAS LAST SEPARATED
              FROM ENLISTED ACTIVE SERVICE IN ANY COMPONENT. IF MEMBER IS
              ENLISTING AFTER COMMISSIONED OR WARRANT OFFICER SERVICE AND
              HAS PREVIOUS ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE. ZERO FOR ALL OTHER
              MEMBERS


       53     MAXIMUM BONUS INDICATOR:
              SPACE – IF NO SRB PAYMENT
              1 – SRB IS PAYABLE


       56     ENLISTED WARRANT OFFICER STATUS INDICATOR:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               855


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             2—IF MEMBER IS ENLISTING AFTER COMMISSIONED OR WARRANT
             OFFICER SERVICE AND WILL HOLD AF RESERVE COMMISSION OR
             WARRANT WHILE IN ENLISTED STATUS
             1—FOR OTHER MEMBERS


     58      Y—IF REENTRY GRADE IS 01-03 AND MEMBER HAS OVER 4 YEARS
             ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE
             N—IF REENTRY GRADE IS 01-02 AND MEMBER DOES NOT HAVE OVER 4
             YEARS ACTIVE ENLISTED SERVICE
             BLANK IF REENTRY GRADE IS NOT 01-03


    62-64    TOTAL DAYS ACCRUED LEAVE SETTLEMENT: TOTAL NUMBER OF LEAVE
             DAYS TO BE PAID, INCLUDING HALF DAYS. BLANK IF CP 30 IS 1 OR 2
    65-67    DAYS ACCRUED LEAVE SETTLEMENT SAVED: NUMBER OF DAYS LEAVE
             TO BE PAID FROM SAVED PAY BALANCE; CANNOT EXCEED CP 62-64.
             BLANK IF CP 30 IS 1 OR 2 OR IF NO SAVED PAY LEAVE TO BE SETTLED


     1-5     0E606


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    CANCELED DATE OF SEPARATION OR DATE BEFORE EXTENSION WAS TO
             BEGIN OR DOS IN LAST INPUT TO DFAS-DE IF CHANGE TRANSACTION
             HAS BEEN SUBMITTED
856                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 53.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of One-Time Pay Authorization for
VRB, SEB or SRB.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0PL03/06 OR APL05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B--ARMY
                C--NAVY
                D--MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


      27-30     ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO. OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


      32-39     VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-48     AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


      49-51     CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510--OFFICER
                530--ENLISTED


       65       RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              857


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     67      CHECK DIGIT (COMPUTER GENERATED)


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
858                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 53.3. Format to Release PL Authorization.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0PL26


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25      YYMMDD OF ONE-TIME PAY AUTHORIZATION


       26        GOVERNMENT-AGENCY: A--AIR FORCE


      27-30      PAYING ADSN


      32-39      VOUCHER-NUMBER


      40-48      AMOUNT OF ONE-TIME PAYMENT


      50-51      CLEARING-ACCOUNT-ID:
                 510--OFFICER
                 530--ENLISTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        859


Figure 53.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Reenlistment Bonus.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PM03/06 OR APM05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B--ARMY
                C--NAVY
                D--MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO. OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

     32-39      VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-48      AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


     49-51      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510--OFFICER
                530--ENLISTED


       65       RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
860                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    67    CHECK DIGIT (COMPUTER GENERATED)


           NOTE:
           A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
           CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
           THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             861


Figure 53.5. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Last Active Duty Officer Status.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0TD05


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       55        PRIOR-SERVICE-MILITARY-DEPARTMENT CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B--ARMY
                 C--NAVY
                 D--MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


     59-64       DOS-LAST-ACTIVE-DUTY-OFFICER-STATUS: YYMMDD OF DOS OF LAST
                 ACTIVE DUTY, OFFICER STATUS; ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE


                 NOTE: IF PRIOR-SVC-MIL-DEP IS BLANK AND DOS-LAST-AD-OFF-STATS
                 IS ZERO-FILLED, THE MEMBER'S TD MPA ENTRY IS REMOVED.
862                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 53.6. Format to Correct Date of Separation - Previous Enlistment.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0TE05


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      32-37      DOS PREVIOUS ENLISTMENT OR ZEROS IF NOT APPLICABLE


       55        PRIOR-SERVICE-MILITARY-DEPARTMENT CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B--ARMY
                 C--NAVY
                 D--MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE


                 NOTE: IF DOS-PREV-ENLIMT IS ZERO-FILLED AND PRIOR-SVC-MIL-DEP
                 IS BLANK, THE MEMBER'S TE MMPA ENTRY IS REMOVED (CANCELED).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             863


                                               Chapter 54

                                             CASUALTIES

54.1. Description. The DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 36, provides the policy concerning death gratuity
and arrears of pay (AOP) paid on behalf of deceased members. It states, in part, that death gratuity will
be paid, regardless of whether death occurred in the line of duty or was the result of the member's miscon-
duct, to eligible beneficiaries of the following:
   54.1.1. Member who dies while on active duty or while traveling to or from such duty.
   54.1.2. Member, or former member, who dies during the 120-day period beginning on the day follow-
   ing date of discharge or release, under honorable conditions, from active duty (including retirement
   for either disability or length of service). In this case, the Administrator of Veteran's Affairs must
   determine that death resulted from disease or injury incurred or aggravated while the member was on
   active duty or while in authorized travel status to or from such duty.
   54.1.3. Any person who dies while traveling to or from or while at a place for final acceptance, or for
   entry upon active duty (other than for training) in the Military Service, who has been ordered or
   directed to go to that place, and who:
       54.1.3.1. Has been provisionally accepted for that duty; or
       54.1.3.2. Has been selected, under the Military Selective Service Act, for duty in that Military
       Service.
   54.1.4. Member whose death is determined by administrative finding under the Missing Persons Act.
   (See Chapter 51.)
   54.1.5. Reserve member who dies while traveling directly to or from active duty.
   54.1.6. Any member of a Reserve officers' training corps who dies while performing annual training
   duty under orders for a period of more than 13 days or while performing authorized travel to or from
   that annual training duty; or any applicant for membership in a Reserve officers' training corps who
   dies while attending field training or while performing authorized travel to or from the place where the
   training is conducted.

54.2. Substantiating Documents:
   54.2.1. DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data, contains information on eligible beneficiary or eli-
   gible non-designated beneficiary.
   54.2.2. DD Form 173/2, Joint Message Form (1-1(Black Ink)), (1-2 (Red Ink)).
   54.2.3. SF 1174, Claim for Unpaid Compensation of Deceased Member of the Uniformed Service,
   and DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate, if beneficiary is located in the servicing
   FSO area, and DD Form 397, Claim Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment.
       54.2.3.1. Preparation of DD Form 397. Use DD Form 397, in quadruplicate, to file claim and pay
       death gratuity (PE03). If payments are to be divided between two or more eligible beneficiaries,
       prepare a separate form for each. Before forwarding DD Form 397 to the Casualty Assistance
       Representative (CAR), the FSO completes form using these instructions. Enter:
864                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             54.2.3.1.1. Item 2 - voucher number.
             54.2.3.1.2. Item 3 - applicable appropriation available on date of death.
             54.2.3.1.3. Item 4 - block stamp.
             54.2.3.1.4. Item 5 - name and address of beneficiary.
             54.2.3.1.5. Item 6 - last name, first name, and middle initial of deceased Service member.
             54.2.3.1.6. Item 7 - decedent's social security number.
             54.2.3.1.7. Item 8 - decedent's grade on date of death.
             54.2.3.1.8. Item 9 - place of decedent's death from death report.
             54.2.3.1.9. Item 10 - date of death from death report.
             54.2.3.1.10. Item 11 - total years of service completed on date of death, from pay date.
             54.2.3.1.11. Item 12 - amount and type of additional pay, other than basic pay.
             54.2.3.1.12. Item 13 - total monthly pay (excluding allowances) as of date of death.
             54.2.3.1.13. Item 14 - total amount due payee.
             54.2.3.1.14. Item 15 - Place an "X" in the appropriate block.
             54.2.3.1.15. Item 16 - List children of deceased member, as applicable.
             54.2.3.1.16. Item 17 and 17A - See paragraph 54.5.11.4.
             54.2.3.1.17. Item 18 - Certify voucher as correct for payment, and make payment by check.
             Place check number, amount and date at bottom line of DD Form 397.
         54.2.3.2. Distribution of DD Form 397.
             54.2.3.2.1. Original - submit with FSO's original vouchers.
             54.2.3.2.2. Duplicate - copy for DFAS-PMJC/DE, with legible signatures.
             54.2.3.2.3. Triplicate - copy for payee.
             54.2.3.2.4. Quadruplicate - file with retained vouchers in military pay.

54.3. Death Gratuity. Death gratuity is paid promptly by the member's servicing FSO, another desig-
nated FSO (hereinafter be referred to as the "assisting" FSO), or DFAS-DE, as prescribed in DoDFMR,
Volume 7A, chapter 36, table 36-4, and this section. When the beneficiary resides in the vicinity of the
servicing FSO, the servicing FSO will make the death gratuity payment. If the beneficiary does not reside
in the vicinity of the servicing FSO, assistance should be requested from the FSO nearest the residence of
the beneficiary. This request is normally included in the MPF notification of death message. The FSO
disbursing the death gratuity payment must process the PE transaction to the deceased member's MMPA
immediately after the death gratuity is paid. If the MMPA is not in SL/SV status, the PE payment recycles
awaiting status change. DFAS-PMJC/DE will disburse the death gratuity in the following situations:
      54.3.1. Beneficiaries are minor children. DFAS-PMJC/DE will request necessary documents from
      the FSO. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 36, paragraph 360104 and table 36-1.
      54.3.2. The member died as a result of a homicide involving the eligible beneficiary.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           865


   54.3.3. "In Loco Parentis" documents required.
   54.3.4. Member was absent without leave (AWOL), in a deserter status, or in custody of civil author-
   ities.
   54.3.5. Doubt exists regarding proper person eligible to receive death gratuity.
   54.3.6. Beneficiary designated is a common-law spouse.

54.4. Responsibilities:
   54.4.1. MPF:
       54.4.1.1. Sends death message on DD Form 173/2 to AFPC with DFAS-PMJC/DE as informa-
       tional addressee. This message contains information from DD Form 93 as to whether there is a
       designated beneficiary or an eligible non-designated beneficiary (see DoDFMR, Volume 7A,
       chapter 36).
       54.4.1.2. Furnishes servicing FSO a copy of the death message and a copy of DD Form 93.
       54.4.1.3. Immediately sends DFAS-PMJC/DE any input which pertains to member's account for
       which MPF is input source for processing.
   54.4.2. DFAS-PMJC/DE. Upon receipt of the initial death message:
       54.4.2.1. Suspends deceased member's pay account by processing an SL (deceased) transaction
       and the E5 (separation) transaction.
       54.4.2.2. Notifies DFAS-PMJSAA/DE to stop allotments and intercept MM/EOM pay, if possi-
       ble.
       54.4.2.3. Sends message to FSO making beneficiary payment, requesting specific documents and
       assistance in disbursing Arrears of Pay (AOP), and death gratuity if applicable.
       54.4.2.4. Upon receipt of documentation, computes amount of pay due, makes adjustments, and
       makes all payments for AOP, including amounts due for travel and per diem.
       54.4.2.5. Furnishes applicable forms as indicated below, and a computation of final pay settle-
       ments, as appropriate, to the beneficiary or estate.
          54.4.2.5.1. TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, will be provided reflecting wage and
          deduction information paid to the deceased member prior to date of death.
          54.4.2.5.2. TD Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income, will be provided for the payment of
          arrears of pay.
          54.4.2.5.3. TD Form 1099-R, Distributions from pensions, annuities, retirement of
          profit-sharing plans, IRAs, insurance contracts, etc., will be provided for death gratuity pay-
          ments.
       54.4.2.6. Upon notification from the local FSO and CAR that extreme hardship exists, and where
       there is sufficient money available, makes interim payments of AOP to proper beneficiary to alle-
       viate hardship. Where appropriate, authorizes local FSO to make direct interim payment.

54.5. FSO Actions. Upon receipt of initial death message and DD Form 93:
866                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      54.5.1. Determines the beneficiary for AOP and location of beneficiary and sends a copy of the DD
      Form 93 to DFAS-PMJC/DE.
      54.5.2. Prepares SF 1174 and DD Form 2058 if beneficiary is located in the servicing FSO area, and
      DD Form 397, Claim Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment.
      54.5.3. Advises the CAR to return all applicable forms to the FSO when beneficiary and witnesses
      have signed.
      54.5.4. Cancels unnegotiated Air Force checks found in member's personal effects and processes nec-
      essary DJMS transaction.
      54.5.5. Screens management case files and the deceased member's latest LES immediately. Notifies
      DFAS-PMJC/DE immediately of any unprocessed items which will affect the amount of unpaid pay
      and allowances.
      54.5.6. Contacts the Summary Courts Officer to determine if there are any debts that must be settled
      from AOP. Only government-related bills such as, but not limited to, hospital bills, telephone bills,
      open mess unpaid accounts, or advance travel pay may be included. Notify DFAS-PMJC/DE imme-
      diately of any such debts.
      54.5.7. Notifies CAR if member participated in the Veterans Educational Assistance Program
      (VEAP) or Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB), along with start and stop dates.
      54.5.8. Determines if member has any unpaid travel claims. If so, a travel voucher must be completed
      and signed by the Summary Courts Officer. Computes the travel voucher and forwards to
      DFAS-PMJC/DE for payment or collection.
      54.5.9. Notifies DFAS-PMJC/DE when a completed SF 1174 has been obtained.
      54.5.10. Forwards the following documents to DFAS-PMJC/DE within 5 duty days:
         54.5.10.1. Original SF 1174 (forwarded by FSO making payment)
         54.5.10.2. Signed original DD Form 2058 (forwarded by FSO making payment)
         54.5.10.3. Paid copy of DD Form 397 with legible signatures
         54.5.10.4. DD Form 93
         54.5.10.5. DD Form 1588, Record of Travel Payment or ATRAS Travel History Print
         54.5.10.6. Copy of travel voucher and orders, if any
         54.5.10.7. Any other pay-affecting document
         54.5.10.8. Sends ECCS to DFAS-PMJC/DE including information shown in Figure 54.2., Casu-
         alty Information Checklist.
      54.5.11. FSO Nearest Residence of Beneficiary (when separate FSO serviced member). Upon receipt
      of notification of a designated beneficiary:
         54.5.11.1. Prepares DD Form 397 and check payable to beneficiary.
         54.5.11.2. Prepares SF 1174 for designated beneficiary to claim unpaid pay and allowances.
         54.5.11.3. Prepares DD Form 2058 for completion and signature by the designated beneficiary of
         unpaid pay and allowances.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            867


      54.5.11.4. Furnishes the DD Form 397, SF 1174, and DD Form 2058 to the CAR and advises that
      DD Form 397 must be signed before the gratuity check is released. If the beneficiary for death
      gratuity and AOP is the same person, the SF 1174 and DD Form 2058 should be signed at the
      same time, if possible.
      54.5.11.5. Advises the CAR to return all three forms to the FSO when the beneficiary and wit-
      nesses have signed.
      54.5.11.6. Processes PE03 to report death gratuity payment.
      54.5.11.7. Notifies DFAS-PMJC/DE when the completed SF 1174 has been obtained.
      54.5.11.8. Forwards to DFAS-PMJC/DE, within 5 duty days:
          54.5.11.8.1. Original SF 1174
          54.5.11.8.2. Copy of paid DD Form 397 with legible signatures
          54.5.11.8.3. Signed original DD Form 2058
      54.5.11.9. Distributes signed DD Form 397 as prescribed in paragraph 54.2.3.2.
   54.5.12. If the payment of death gratuity is made to other than the proper payee, and the rightful ben-
   eficiary later applies, take these actions:
      54.5.12.1. Payment on Basis of Military Records. If payment was made to an individual, based
      on statements on military records made by member as to his or her marital and dependency status,
      and there is nothing to indicate that such status is incorrect, do not regard payment as erroneous.
      In such cases, forward to DFAS-PMJC/DE the claim of any person entitled to payment if mem-
      ber's record contained official notice of such person. Do not pay death gratuity to any other claim-
      ant until advised by DFAS-DE.
      54.5.12.2. Administrative Error. If through administrative error (not caused by member's state-
      ment on locally available military records), payment has been made to a person clearly not enti-
      tled, and it is equally clear that another claimant is entitled to payment, do not delay or withhold
      payment to rightful beneficiary. The following rules apply:
          54.5.12.2.1. If conclusive determination of rightful beneficiary can be made under provisions
          of this paragraph, immediately pay beneficiary locally. Mail complete information about erro-
          neous payment to DFAS-PMJC/DE for collection action.
          54.5.12.2.2. If conclusive determination concerning rightful beneficiary cannot be made, for-
          ward entire case to DFAS-PMJC/DE for determination and payment to rightful beneficiary,
          and collection action against erroneously paid beneficiary.

54.6. Allowance for Quarters to Surviving Dependents:
   54.6.1. Conditions of Payment. Dependents of members on active duty, eligible for government fam-
   ily quarters, may be paid an allowance for quarters when members die in the line of duty and one of
   the following conditions exists:
      54.6.1.1. dependents do not occupy government quarters on the date of death;
      54.6.1.2. dependents are occupying government quarters on a rental basis on the date of death;
      54.6.1.3. dependents vacate government quarters within 365 days of date of death.
868                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      54.6.2. Allowance includes BAQ and VHA or OHA, as applicable, at the rate to which the member
      would have been entitled prior to death.
      54.6.3. Payment Order. Payments are to be made to the surviving dependents in the following order:
         54.6.3.1. current spouse;
         54.6.3.2. if no current spouse, divide equally among the dependents listed on AF Form 594,
         Application and Authorization to Start, Stop, or Change Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ) or
         Dependency Redetermination.
      54.6.4. Termination of Allowance. Allowance terminates 365 days after the date of death. If, within
      365 days, dependents vacate a housing facility under the jurisdiction of the Uniformed Service which
      they occupied on a non-rental basis, the allowance begins on the day the housing was vacated and con-
      tinues for 365 days less the number of days the housing facility was occupied following the date of
      death.
      54.6.5. Payment Procedure. Payments are made by DFAS-PMJC/DE. FSO makes emergency pay-
      ment of amounts accrued to date from date of death, upon corroboration of need by the base CAR, and
      only after receiving DFAS-PMJC/DE authorization.
      54.6.6. Documentation. Upon notification of an active duty member's death, FSO coordinates with
      the CAR to contact the surviving dependent and explain this allowance and the payment procedure. If
      the surviving spouse or guardian of minor dependents signs the SF 1174, and this spouse or minor
      child is the beneficiary for AOP, the signature on the SF 1174 is sufficient to claim the 365 days of
      BAQ and applicable housing allowances.
         54.6.6.1. CAR advises the claimant that he or she is responsible for reporting any address changes
         to DFAS-PMJC/DE, 6760 E. Irvington Pl, Denver CO 80279-3000, to ensure timely receipt of
         payment. Guardianship papers are still required under the same conditions as required for death
         gratuity or AOP. DFAS-PMJC/DE sends a letter explaining the pay and allowances and a claim
         statement for signature to dependents who will not receive AOP.
         54.6.6.2. FSO submits, to DFAS-PMJC/DE, documents relating to the deceased member (for
         example, DD Form 397 and SF 1174). Additional information may be requested to determine
         payment amount. (See Chapter 26, Chapter 30, and Chapter 31.)

54.7. DFAS-DE Actions:
      54.7.1. Report of Settlement to DVA. Upon DVA request, DFAS-PMJC/DE advises DVA of final set-
      tlement of pay accounts of deceased members.
      54.7.2. Adjustments. If unnegotiated check or any factors affecting pay and allowances are discov-
      ered after AOP payment has been made or after the appropriate documents have been submitted to
      DFAS-DE, inform DFAS-DE of facts by phone, facsimile (FAX), or ECCS. Send documents to
      DFAS-PMJC/DE immediately with letter of explanation. DFAS-DE makes required adjustments.
      54.7.3. DFAS-DE Collection Actions. DFAS-DE will take action to recover erroneous payment.
      When these procedures have been followed and there is no lack of good faith or due care, the FSO
      who made the erroneous payment may apply for relief under DFAS-DER 7010-1.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              869


Figure 54.1. DD Form 397, Claim Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment.
870                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 54.2. Casualty Information Checklist.
                              CASUALTY INFORMATION CHECKLIST
FROM:
SUBJECT: Active Duty Casualty - (SSN), (Name), (Date of Death)
TO:              DFAS-PMJC/DE
1. Summary Courts Officer, (NAME), was contacted on (DATE).
2. Outstanding Charges or Debts:
         a. Open Mess:          Yes _______          Amount $_______   No _______
         b. Base Exchange:      Yes _______          Amount $_______   No _______
         c. Billeting:          Yes _______          Amount $_______   No _______
         d. GPLD:               Yes _______          Amount $_______   No _______
         e. Hospital:           Yes _______          Amount $_______   No _______
DD Forms 139 sent on (DATE) for (SPECIFY DEBT TYPE & AMOUNT).
3. Contacted Orderly Room on:(DATE)
      Has all leave been posted?               Yes _______      No _______
      If NO, show date(s) of unposted leave(s):(Dates)
4. Have all travel settlements been paid?      Yes _______      No _______
      Travel voucher forwarded on (DATE).
5. Have all pay entitlements been posted? Yes _______           No _______
      If NO, list entitlements and amount of each.
6. Point of contact for any further questions:
      NAME:                     DSN:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                871


Figure 54.3. Format to Report/Change or Cancel Final Separation.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       BE503/04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF PROJECTED DATE OF SEPARATION


     26-28      SEPARATION DESIGNATION NUMBER-OFFICER


      OR


     26-28      SEPARATION DESIGNATION NUMBER-ENLISTED


       29       NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS TO DETERMINE BAQ RATE FOR ACCRUED
                LEAVE COMPUTATION. ZERO IF NOT APPLICABLE


     30-31      NUMBER OF DAYS TRAVEL TIME FOR RESERVE MEMBER. ZERO FOR
                ALL OTHERS


     32-34      NUMBER MONTHS OF SERVICE FOR COMPUTING DISABILITY
                SEVERANCE PAY. ZERO IF NOT APPLICABLE


     35-37      NUMBER MONTHS COUNTABLE FOR COMPUTING SEPARATION/
                READJUSTMENT SEVERANCE PAY. ZERO IF NOT APPLICABLE


     38-43      AMOUNT OF READJUSTMENT PAY OR MUSTERING-OUT PAY
                PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED AND NOT REFUNDED. ZERO IF MEMBER DOES
                NOT QUALIFY FOR READJUSTMENT PAY OR HAS NOT RECEIVED
                PREVIOUS PAYMENTS


     44-45      GRADE FOR COMPUTING DISABILITY SEVERANCE PAY. ZERO FOR
                MEMBERS NOT ENTITLED TO DISABILITY SEVERANCE PAY
872                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



       46     CHARACTER DISCHARGE CODE:
              1--HONORABLE
              2--GENERAL
              3--UNDER CONDITIONS OTHER THAN HONORABLE
              4--UNDESIRABLE
              5--BAD CONDUCT--LESS THAN 6 MONTHS SERVICE, UNSATISFACTORY
              PERFORMANCE OR MISCONDUCT
              6--DISHONORABLE
              7--UNDETERMINED (DEFERRED BY SPECIAL DIRECTIVE)
              USE CODE 8 ONLY WHEN APPELLATE REVIEW OR SECURITY
              INVESTIGATION IS NOT COMPLETED. ZERO IS SPC IS ONE FOR WHICH
              CHARACTER OF DISCHARGE IS NOT DESIGNATED
              9--ENTRY LEVEL SEPARATION


      54-57   GRATUITY AMOUNT. ZERO IF GRATUITY IS NOT AUTHORIZED


              NUMBER OF YEARS SERVICE SHOULD BE ROUNDED TO THE NEAREST
              FULL YEAR--COUNT FRACTIONS OF 6 MONTHS OR MORE AS 1 YEAR.
              DROP FRACTIONS OF LESS THAN 6 MONTHS. NUMBER OF YEARS
              SERVICE FOR READJUSTMENT



       1-5    1E503/04


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-48   STREET PORTION OF MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS


       1-5    2E503/04


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                873


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-39    CITY PORTION OF MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS


    41-42    STATE PORTION OF MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS


    44-48    ZIP CODE APPLICABLE TO FUTURE ADDRESS SHOWN


     49      1 (FOR DOMESTIC ADDRESS)


     OR


    20-48    NAME OF TOWN, CITY, COUNTRY PROVINCE OR OTHER LARGER
             FOREIGN LOCATION THAT WILL BE MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING
             ADDRESS


     49      2 (FOR FOREIGN ADDRESS)


     OR


    20-24    ARMY, AIR FORCE OR NAVY MILITARY POST OFFICE NUMBER THAT
             WILL BE MEMBER’S FUTURE MAILING ADDRESS


     49      3—IF ADDRESS IS APO NUMBER
             4—IF ADDRESS IS FPO NUMBER


     1-5     0E506 (SAME CODE SHOWN IN SEPARATION INPUT TO BE CANCELED)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
874                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      20-25   YYMMDD OF CANCELED DATE OF SEPARATION. DOS IN LAST INPUT
              TO DFAS-DE IF CHANGE TRANSACTION HAS BEEN SUBMITTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    875


Figure 54.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payments of Arrears of Pay.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0PB03/06 OR APB05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26        GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B—ARMY
                 C—NAVY
                 D—MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 M--STATE DEPARTMENT


     27-30       ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                 FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31        OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

     32-39       VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-48       AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


     49-51       CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                 510—OFFICER
                 530—ENLISTED


       65        RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
876                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    67    CHECK DIGIT (COMPUTER GENERATED)


           NOTE:
           A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
           CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
           THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              877


Figure 54.5. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Payment for Death Gratuity.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PE03/06 OR APE05(ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN: ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)

     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-45      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


     46-48      BUDGET PROJECT ID: 593 FOR ALL PAYMENTS--DEATH GRATUITY


     49-50      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED
878                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   51-52  FISCAL YEAR FOR WHICH DEATH GRATUITY WAS EARNED


           NOTE:
           A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
           CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
           THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          879


                                             Chapter 55

                       DEDUCTIONS AND COLLECTIONS - GENERAL

55.1. Description. Policy on deductions and collections is found in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters
44 through 54.

55.2. Definitions:
   55.2.1. Deductions. A deduction is any subtraction or exclusion from gross pay due a member.
   Included are those required by laws, regulations or legal decisions, such as Federal and State income
   tax, child support, social security and Medicare and AFRH; those for benefits specifically authorized
   by law, such as SGLI; and voluntary allotments to designated payees. Deductions from pay must be
   properly authorized, adequately documented, and paid when due in the amount authorized. Debts
   may be collected voluntarily or involuntarily and must be collected in accordance with due process
   provisions of applicable laws.
   55.2.2. Collections. Collections include military pay and allowance check cancellations as well as
   cash collections from military members to apply to debts recorded on the MMPA and collections of
   overpayments of TLA. See Chapter 65 for detailed information on collections.
880                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 56

                               TAXABLE WAGES AND WITHHOLDINGS

Section 56A—Federal Taxable Wages and Withholdings.

56.1. Description. The Air Force, as an employer, is required by DoDFMR, Volume 7A, to withhold and
report Social Security, Medicare, and Federal and state taxable wages to the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS), Social Security Administration (SSA), and state taxing authorities on a routine basis for each
employee (member).

56.2. Federal Taxable Wages.
      56.2.1. Military pays are taxable wages as defined by DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 44, table 44-1.
      MGIB contributions are a reduction to Federal taxable wages (see paragraph 64.3.2). All debts
      remaining at time of separation are included in Federal taxable wages and reported on TD Form W-2,
      Wage and Tax Statement. When DFAS receives collections after separation, Debt and Claims issues a
      DFAS-DE Form 705, Certificate for Income Tax Adjustment, to the member.
      56.2.2. Taxable wages are reported in the year wages are received, either actually or constructively.
      Constructive receipt occurs only when there is not a substantial limitation on the member's right to
      receive the payment at issue. For example, a member is entitled to a bonus payment with a November
      2006 authorization date. The entitlement posts to the member's MMPA in November 2006 and is
      available for payment to the member, but the member does not accept the bonus payment until Janu-
      ary 2007. The bonus payment is taxable in 2006 since the wages were constructively received in 2006.
      For additional guidance, contact AFAFO.

56.3. TD Form W-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. The FSO, where the member
first reports for duty, must require each member to accomplish a TD Form W-4, Employee’s Withholding
Allowance Certificate, and DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate, as part of in-processing.
The member may submit a new TD Form W-4 and/or DD Form 2058 when his or her tax status changes.
Information reflected on the TD Form W-4 and DD Form 2058 is used to establish or change FITW (W-4)
or SITW (DD 2058) data and withholding factors on a member’s MMPA. See Figure 56.1. The original
documents are forwarded to the Federal Records Center with the DTL (see Chapter 2 of this manual for
document submission requirements), a copy is retained with the extra copy of the DTL, and another copy
is provided to the member.
      56.3.1. Input Transactions. Based on the TD Form W-4, input an FJ04 transaction with the federal
      withholding factors. See Figure 56.14. for transaction layout, and field input edits. Each transaction
      includes marital status, number of allowances, additional amount of withholding, and exemption from
      withholding, if applicable. The fields not being changed in the FJ04 transaction will contain blank
      spaces. Multiple items can be changed with input of one FJ04 transaction.
      56.3.2. Exemption from Withholding. When a member submits a TD Form W-4 claiming exemption
      from income tax withholding, advise the member that he or she must have had no tax liability in the
      previous year, and anticipates no tax liability in the current year. The exemption is only valid for the
      current calendar year. If, during the year, a member determines that he or she will have a tax liability
      in the current year, a new TD Form W-4 claiming a valid marital status, and number of allowances,
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               881


   must be submitted. If a member determines that they will not have a tax liability in the next calendar
   year, a new TD Form W-4 must be submitted after December 1st of the current year, but no later than
   February mid-month of the next calendar year. If a new TD Form W-4 is not submitted, and the FJ04
   transaction has not processed by February month end restructure, FITW will resume in March at the
   withholding rate of single with zero exemptions. NOTE: DJMS stops withholding for regular wages
   only; withholding on one-time entitlements continues. For a manual refund of withholding from
   one-time entitlements, send a message to DFAS-DE/FJPA.
   56.3.3. If the tax-auth-city-state is 098, at the time the E203 processes, the FSO will receive a UDN
   reject, as a result of the MPF processing, to notify the FSO that member must declare a legal residence
   and an MG transaction must be sent to DFAS-DE. A 60-day suspense is established for receipt of the
   MG transaction. At the end of 60 days, the FSO receives another UDN from the suspense transaction
   and a new 30-day suspense is established. If the 30-day suspense is not cleared, it is rejected to DFAS
   for follow-up action.

56.4. Responsibility for TD Form W-4 Information.
   56.4.1. Central Site. DFAS-DE is required to submit information to the IRS when:
      56.4.1.1. The member claims more than 10 withholding allowances; or
      56.4.1.2. The member claims total exemption from withholding, due to no tax liability, and the
      member earns more than $866.67 in taxable wages per month.
   56.4.2. FSO. The FSO must honor a member's TD Form W-4 submission, unless the IRS gives writ-
   ten notification specifically stating that a member is not entitled to claim exempt status or is not enti-
   tled to the number of withholding allowances claimed on the TD Form W-4.
      56.4.2.1. When a written notice is received from the IRS (IRS Letter XXXX (SC)) specifying that
      the member is not entitled to claim exemption from FITW, or that the number of allowances
      claimed is excessive, the FSO must comply with the IRS determination letter.
          56.4.2.1.1. The FSO will process an FJ04 transaction in the month of receipt to update mem-
          ber’s MMPA in accordance with the IRS letter. This is the only exception that authorizes the
          FSO to change the federal withholding factors without a signed TD Form W-4 from the mem-
          ber. After processing the FJ04 transaction, forward the original IRS determination letter to
          DFAS-DE with the DTL, retain a copy with the file copy DTL, and send a copy to the member.
          Any determination letters from the IRS which are sent directly to DFAS-DE will be forwarded
          to the member's FSO (active duty only) for processing.
          56.4.2.1.2. If, after receipt of the determination letter, the member brings in a more current
          determination letter authorizing a larger number of exemptions or exempt status, the FSO must
          honor the new determination letter, and process another FJ04 transaction. No FITW refunds
          will be given for the period of lower allowances or non-exempt status.
      56.4.2.2. If a member, who has received a determination letter, submits a statement justifying a
      newly filed TD Form W-4 for more withholding allowances than the number found on the IRS
      Letter XXXX (SC), send the new TD Form W-4, the justification statement, and a copy of the
      determination letter to your local IRS office. Overseas bases should send the new TD Form W-4
      and statement to:
882                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                               Director, Office of International Operation
                               1325 K Street NW
                               Washington DC 20225



56.5. Federal Income Tax Withholding (FITW).
      56.5.1. FITW is normally computed using member’s Federal wages and DJMS on-line Table 073.
      See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 44, for additional guidance. One-time entitlements are taxed at
      the federal flat rate percentage.
      56.5.2. The FITW deduction amount for retroactive pay entitlements, as the result of a retroactive
      accession only, should be computed using the following FITW formula:


                NM-FITW-DED X FITW Quotient Factor = CM-FITW-DED


NOTE: FITW Quotient Factor = CM-FITW-WAGES/NM-FITW-WAGES
         56.5.2.1. If the FITW quotient factor is less than one, compute current month FITW using DJMS
         on-line Table 073.
         56.5.2.2. If the FITW quotient factor is equal to or greater than one, compute current month FITW
         using the formula in paragraph 56.5.2. above.
      56.5.3. The following is an example of FITW Tax Computation for Retroactive Pay Entitlements
      using the FITW Quotient Factor.
         56.5.3.1. Compute based on the following:
             56.5.3.1.1. Member’s normal Basic Pay (BP) is $874.80 per month.
             56.5.3.1.2. Member claims single with one (1) exemption for tax purposes.
             56.5.3.1.3. Member entered active duty January 16, 1996. Accession processed August 1996.
             Member’s current month FITW wages are $6,561.00 (BP for period January 16 through
             August 31, 1996). This amount is substituted into CM-FITW-WAGES field of the FITW Quo-
             tient Factor formula.


                               $6561.00 / NM-FITW-WAGES = FITW Quotient Factor


         56.5.3.2. Solution:
             56.5.3.2.1. Divide current month FITW wages by next month FITW wages to arrive at the
             FITW quotient factor (substituted into NM-FITW-WAGES field of the FITW formula as an
             interim measure to demonstrate procedure for the calculation. The results of this step is what
             will actually be used in the calculation as the quotient factor).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         883


                             $6561.00 / $874.80 = 7.5 (FITW Quotient Factor)


NOTE: The FITW quotient factor is two decimal places in length; do not round the decimal up or down.
Example: 1.029 should be 1.02.


                      NM-FITW-DEDTN X 7.5 = CM-FITW-DEDTN


          56.5.3.2.2. Using the information given above, compute next month FITW deduction (BP of
          $874.80 and exemptions of S01 for tax purposes). Next months FITW deduction is $66.50
          (substituted into NM-FITW-DEDTN field of the FITW formula).


                             $66.50 X 7.5 = CM-FITW-DEDTN


          56.5.3.2.3. Completing the FITW formula, member’s current month FITW deduction would
          be $498.75 (substituted into the CM-FITW-DEDTN field of the FITW formula).


                             $66.50 X 7.5 = $498.75



56.6. Adjustments and Refunds.
   56.6.1. Adjustments. Adjustments to a member’s taxable wages and/or withholdings can only be pro-
   cessed by DFAS-JM/DE. The FSO must establish a CMS case and refer it to the Tax Box, providing
   as much specific information as possible to substantiate the adjustment. Reference subparagraph
   56.6.1.1. below for appropriate office to be contacted.
       56.6.1.1. Current Year Federal Taxable Wages and/or Withholdings. Contact the appropriate
       DFAS-DE office to correct current year Federal taxable wages and/or withholdings, as applicable.
       DFAS-JMSB/DE is responsible for adjusting taxable wages and withholdings for active duty
       members ("A" status), JMCBD for separated members ("T" and "V" status) without a debt, and
       DFAS-JEC/DE (Debt Establishment) for members who separated with a debt. DFAS-JECC/DE
       (Claims Branch) issues TD Form W-2 on correction of record cases (BCMR).
       56.6.1.2. Prior Year Federal Taxable Wages and/or Withholdings. A member's prior year Federal
       taxable wages and/or withholdings may only be corrected by DFAS-DE if an administrative error
       or DJMS system error resulted in the wages being reported incorrectly on the TD Form W-2 and/
       or MMPA. In this situation, the FSO contacts DFAS-DE, via CMS case, and requests issuance of
       a TD Form W-2C.
   56.6.2. Refunds.
       56.6.2.1. Prior year FITW amounts can be refunded to the member when FITW was erroneously
       reported to the IRS and the member did not receive any pay. This normally occurs when a mem-
884                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         ber's MMPA is in suspended (T) status and wages and withholdings continue to accrue, but no
         money is released to the member. In all other cases, the member must file a tax return with the
         IRS to receive a refund.
         56.6.2.2. Contact DFAS-DE/FJP to refund the tax on one-time entitlements when a debt resulting
         from an erroneous payment is collected in one lump sum during the same calendar year.

56.7. TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement. DFAS-DE produces TD Forms W-2 for all members
who were on active duty during the calendar year, including members who separated or retired during the
year. The TD Form W-2 is produced and mailed each January for the preceding calendar (tax) year (i.e.,
the 1994 TD Form W-2 is produced and mailed to members in January 1995). TD Forms W-2 will reflect
taxable wages and withholdings for the entire tax year, even if the member had a break in service during
the year. The history FID FC, FE, FH, FJ and FK entries with W2-ISSUED field = 'YES' contain the
wages, withholdings, and nontaxable income reported to the member on the TD Form W-2.
      56.7.1. Pension Plan. Per IRS directive, members on active duty for more than 90 consecutive days
      at any time during the year (including mobilized Reserve Forces members) are covered by a qualified
      pension plan, and the pension plan block on the TD Form W-2 will be marked.
      56.7.2. Delayed Accessions. A TD Form W-2 must be issued for a prior calendar year (1994) when a
      member enters active duty and receives payment in that year (1994), but the accession to DJMS is pro-
      cessed after December month-end restructure (MER) or in the following year (1995). In this case, the
      TD Form W-2 wages and withholdings must be based on when the money was actually received by
      the member. If a member is a delayed accession, prepare and forward a pay computation (reflecting
      all entitlements and withholdings used to arrive at the partial payments made to the member) to
      DFAS-DE/FJPA requesting issuance of a TD Form W-2.
      56.7.3. TD Forms W-2C, Statement of Corrected Income and Tax Amounts. FSOs do not issue origi-
      nal TD Forms W-2C for Air Force members. The FSO notifies DFAS-DE, via CMS, and requests the
      member's account be corrected when it is believed an error exists. DFAS-DE will research the account
      and process any necessary transactions. The history FID FC, FH, FJ and FK (if applicable) entries will
      have "W2C" in the W2-ISSUED field after these transactions have processed. The corrected wage
      and/or deduction amounts are processed to the 5-Year Tax History system for the actual production of
      the corresponding TD Form W-2C.
      56.7.4. Duplicate TD Forms W-2 and W-2C. Refer to the "DJMS FIVE YEAR TAX HISTORY
      USERS GUIDE FOR INQUIRIES AND REISSUES" for further information concerning the issuance
      of TD Forms W-2C, and the capability to process reissues of TD Forms W-2 and any corresponding
      TD Forms W-2C for members. Requests for duplicate TD Forms W-2 and W-2C should be processed
      by the member's servicing FSO or by the nearest base for separatees and retirees. Members should
      retrieve their TD Forms W-2 and W-2C from myPay, only requesting from the FSO if their myPay
      access is suspended or terminated.

56.8. Social Security Numbers (SSN). SSNs are needed to properly credit individuals' accounts for con-
tributions to Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), which will cover taxpayers under the Old-age,
Survivors and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program and the Medicare program. Covered individuals
may qualify for benefits after: Obtaining the required number of quarters and age or becoming disabled
or the death of the taxpayer. The Medicare program may entitle taxpayers who become permanently dis-
abled to hospital coverage. After January 1991, employers are required to deduct and report Social Secu-
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            885


rity and Medicare contributions separately. Military member’s participation is required by DoDFMR,
Volume 7A, chapters 44 through 54.
   56.8.1. Requirement. Each member on active duty or performing active duty for training must have
   an SSN (see AFI 36-3203). This number is the member's service identification number.
   56.8.2. Change of Name. To record a change of name with the Social Security Administration (SSA),
   the member submits an SS Form 5, Application for a Social Security Number, to the nearest SSA
   office, if stateside, or MPF if stationed overseas.
   56.8.3. Social Security and Medicare Claims. For advice and assistance regarding Social Security
   and Medicare benefits and claims, use facilities of the nearest social security field office except:
       56.8.3.1. National Capital Region. Use facilities of Social Security Administration Field Office,
       814 H Street NW, Washington DC 20203.
       56.8.3.2. Far East. Use facilities of Social Security Administration Field Office, Federal Build-
       ing, Civic Center, San Francisco CA 94102.
       56.8.3.3. Europe, Near and Middle East. In Europe, the Near and Middle East, Eastern Canada,
       Iceland, and Greenland, use facilities of Social Security Administration Field Office, Post Office
       Building, Baltimore MD 21203.
       56.8.3.4. Caribbean, Central, and South America. Use facilities of Social Security Administration
       Field Office, 34 South West First Street, Miami FL 33130, unless a social security field office has
       been established in the particular area.

56.9. Social Security and Medicare Taxable Wages and Withholdings.
   56.9.1. Only basic pay is subject to Social Security and Medicare taxation and withholding. Also see
   DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 44. (MGIB enrollment reduces the basic pay entitlement during the
   contribution period and wages subject to FICA and Medicare accordingly.)
   56.9.2. DFAS-DE/FJP will correct or adjust a member's current year Social Security and/or Medicare
   taxable wages and withholdings. Prior year taxable wages may only be corrected by DFAS-DE if an
   administrative or DJMS system error resulted in incorrect reporting of wages on the TD Form W-2
   and/or MMPA. In this situation, the FSO contacts DFAS-DE and requests issuance of a TD Form
   W-2C.

Section 56B—Earned Income Credit.

56.10. Entitlement Criteria.
   56.10.1. Earned Income Wage Thresholds. EIC is available to individuals whose earned income and
   adjusted gross income are below the earned income thresholds. The earned income and adjusted gross
   income threshold varies, depending on whether the member has no dependents, one qualifying child,
   or two or more qualifying children. The thresholds change each year and members should refer to the
   TD Form W-5 to determine the current threshold for their income and status. Members can use the
   Earned Income Worksheet at Figure 56.6. to help determine whether or not they qualify.
886                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      56.10.2. Earned Income. This term includes all taxable items of pay (i.e. basic pay and special pay).
      Because of the effect of earned income, APEIC is only available to members whose earned income
      does not exceed $29,665 for 2003. Check the current year’s TD Form W-5 for annual limits.

56.11. Advance Payment of Earned Income Credit (APEIC). Earned Income Credit (EIC) can be
paid to members in semi-monthly or monthly increments with a member's normal pay, once the member
submits a TD Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate, to the local FSO, and he or
she is determined to be eligible. See Figure 56.2. The amount of APEIC is determined by member's
earned income and whether a member's spouse has a TD Form W-5 in effect. A member whose spouse
has a TD Form W-5 in effect will only receive partial APEIC benefits while a member whose spouse does
not have a TD Form W-5 in effect can receive full APEIC benefits.

56.12. Eligibility for APEIC. A member is eligible to receive APEIC if all three of the following apply:
      56.12.1. Qualifying Child. Member has a qualifying child living with him or her. A qualifying child
      must meet the relationship, residency and age tests as stated on the TD Form W-5.
      56.12.2. Earned Income Limit. Member expects his or her income to not equal or exceed the earned
      income thresholds (see paragraph 56.14.1. below). The member's spouse's income must also be con-
      sidered when determining eligibility for requesting APEIC.
      56.12.3. Continuing Entitlement. Member expects to be eligible to claim EIC for the current calendar
      year.

56.13. Substantiating Documents. Each eligible individual must complete a TD Form W-5.

56.14. FSO Responsibilities.
      56.14.1. The FSO must honor a member's request if the member has a qualifying child living with
      him or her, the member's pay plus nontaxable earned income are not expected to equal or exceed the
      thresholds outlined on the TD Form W-5 (member's income includes any earned income provided by
      member's spouse) and the FSO is unaware of any other item that would affect a member's eligibility;
      e.g., expected receipt of bonus payment, loss of dependents, or PCS, for a period that will exceed six
      months of the tax year, to a location outside the CONUS. The FSO forwards the original TD Form
      W-5 to DFRC and retains a copy with the DTL. Provide a copy of the Earned Income Worksheet to
      members to help them determine their eligibility.
      56.14.2. The FSO processes a FID FE to start, stop, cancel, or change APEIC. See Figure 56.11. for
      transaction format.
         56.14.2.1. Start (FE01). The transaction's effective date can be up to one processing month in the
         future (i.e., FE01 can be input in December's processing month to be effective the 1st of January
         of the next calendar year).
         56.14.2.2. Stop (FE02). Processed against an FE with a current effective date and stops at month
         end. To change a member's APEIC from full to partial benefits or vice versa, an FE02 must be
         processed followed by an FE01. The FE01 will recycle until the first update of the next calendar
         month, which may not be the first update of the next processing month.

Section 56C—State Taxable Wages and Withholdings.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            887


56.15. State Taxable Wages. Military Pay subject to Federal tax may also be subject to state tax.
Attachment 15 is a listing of tax information for each state and territory. Also see DoDFMR, Volume 7A,
chapter 44.
   56.15.1. MGIB contributions reduce state taxable wages (see paragraph 64.3.2).
   56.15.2. All debts remaining at time of separation are included in state taxable wages and reported on
   the TD Form W-2.

56.16. State Income Tax Withholding (SITW). State income taxes are withheld from the pay of mem-
bers whose states of legal residence have formalized agreements with the United States Department of
Treasury for state income tax withholding (SITW).
   56.16.1. The amount of SITW will be in accordance with the agreement between the Department of
   Treasury and the State. Forms specifically prescribed by the agreement must be used (declaration of
   allowances, exemptions, exclusions, etc.).
   56.16.2. The DoD has no authority to withhold delinquent state taxes. DFAS-DE notifies the states
   when a member changes state of legal residence. Once a member changes his or her state of legal res-
   idence, SITW is not withheld for the prior state.
   56.16.3. DJMS produces an undeclared state taxing authority report twice a year, in April and
   November, which is placed out on SAR under mode JFATAX, report ID FA0141s. It is very important
   to get these members’ state taxing authority updated; members who have an undeclared state taxing
   authority (state code 98) will encounter state tax filing issues at a later date and the MMPA will not
   convert to the new pay system.”
   56.16.4. Members whose state taxing authority is 99 are claiming to be residents of foreign countries.
   If the tax-auth-state in the accession transaction was 99, contact the MPF to process the MH01 to
   identify the member’s resident country. Otherwise, process an MG04 to correct the tax-auth-state to a
   valid us state code. See paragraph 56.18.2.3. for additional information.”

56.17. Responsibilities.
   56.17.1. Central Site. DFAS-DE/FJP will correct or adjust a member's current year state taxable
   wages. Prior year state taxable wages may only be corrected by DFAS-DE if a DFAS-DE system or
   administrative error resulted in incorrect reporting of wages on the TD Form W-2 and/or MMPA. In
   this situation, the FSO contacts DFAS-DE and requests issuance of a TD Form W-2C. (A member's
   failure to report a change in state taxing authorities is not a DFAS-DE administrative error).
   56.17.2. FSO Responsibilities. Based on the TD Form W-4, input an FK04 transaction with the state
   withholding factors. See Figure 56.15. for transaction layout, and field input edits. Each transaction
   includes marital status, number of allowances, additional amount of withholding, and exemption from
   withholding, if applicable.

56.18. Special Provisions. Other member-requested changes that affect SITW computation include:
   56.18.1. SITW exemption for Native American military members. The soldiers’ and sailors civil
   relief act (SSCRA) prohibits states from taxing the military compensation of a Native American ser-
   vice member who claims a tribal reservation as his/her residence and who earns military compensa-
   tion off the reservation by virtue of compliance with military orders. In order to comply with the law,
888                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      the member must be able to claim as his/her state of legal residence/domicile, a federally recognized
      tribal reservation or Indian country. In addition, the member must be an enrolled member of that fed-
      erally recognized Native American tribe.
         56.18.1.1. Have the member complete a DD Form 2058-1 with the following pen and ink
         changes:
             56.18.1.1.1. Change the title of the form to read: Native American State Income Tax With-
             holding Exemption Certificate.
             56.18.1.1.2. Change the block that currently reads ‘State of legal residence’ to read: “State
             your reservation is located in”.
             56.18.1.1.3. X-out the statements: “I certify that I anticipate...I also declare...my withholding
             status”, and write in ‘see back of form’.
             56.18.1.1.4. On the back of the form, have the member write the following statement:


                 “I certify that I am a member of the federally recognized _______________ tribe and
                 claim ___________, A federally recognized tribal reservation/or Indian country as my
                 domicile. I have met the two necessary conditions to be exempt from withholding for the
                 calendar year 20__. I also declare that I will notify the Defense Finance and Accounting
                 Service of any changes that affect my withholding status.”


             56.18.1.1.5. Have the member sign and date the certification statement.
         56.18.1.2. Based on the member’s certification, the FSO is authorized to process an FK04 with
         deduction election of ‘N’.
         56.18.1.3. You are not required to verify if the tribe/reservation claimed is federally recognized.
         If the member falsifies this information, he/she will be held responsible for state taxes by the state
         at the time of income tax filing. The list of eligible tribes/reservations can be found at: http://
         www.access.gop.gov/. Federal Register/Vol 65, No. 49/Monday, March 13, 2000, pages 13298 -
         13303. Process the amended document in accordance with the requirements in this chapter.
         56.18.1.4. Withholding will stop in the processing month that the FSO submits the FK04 change
         to exemption status. Adjustments for prior months will not be made.
      56.18.2. Declare or Change State of Legal Residency.
         56.18.2.1. New members must declare a state of legal residency within 6 months of accession,
         using DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate, unless the E103 transaction included
         this information. See Figure 56.3. This form is also used for members wanting to change their
         state of legal residence. The DD Form 2058 is to be completed in triplicate. The original is for-
         warded to DFAS-DE/CWL with the DTL, a copy is retained with the file copy DTL, and a copy is
         provided to the member. FSOs must input a MG04 transaction using the DD Form 2058 as their
         source document. See Figure 56.20. Valid input for TAX-AUTH-CITY-STATE is ‘0’ followed
         by the 2 digit numeric state code.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            889


     56.18.2.2. The change is effective from the first calendar day of the processing month in which
     the MG04 transaction is processed. State taxing authority data codes, and administrator addresses
     are listed in Attachment 5. A leave and earning statement (LES) remark is output in the month
     the MG04 transaction processes.
     56.18.2.3. When the MH (Resident Country) entry is not present on the MMPA, and the
     TAX-AUTH-STATE field in the MG04 transaction equals 99 (foreign nationals), the MG04 trans-
     action will recycle for 10 updates. If a resident country add transaction has not processed in the
     next 10 updates, the recycling MG04 transaction will reject.
  56.18.3. Declaration of Exemption from State Withholding.
     56.18.3.1. Members can claim exempt from state income tax withholding for the following rea-
     sons:
         56.18.3.1.1. Members are residents of states that grant exemption based on specific residency
         requirements.
         56.18.3.1.2. Members claim exempt from federal income tax withholding, and state claimed
         for legal residence parallels federal rules.
     56.18.3.2. Members must file a TD Form W-4 (both scenarios above), DD Form 2058-1, state
     income tax exemption test certificate (scenario #1 above), or specific state required form (if appli-
     cable). See Figure 56.1. and Figure 56.9., respectively, for TD Form W-4 and DD Form 2058-1.
     Reference paragraphs 56.19.1. through 56.19.6.
     56.18.3.3. State taxable wages will not be accumulated on member’s MMPA, reported on mem-
     ber’s TD Form W-2, or provided to the applicable state. However, a listing will be provided, to
     each state, of members who claim exempt. Listing will include, as a minimum, the following
     items of information:
         56.18.3.3.1. Member’s SSN
         56.18.3.3.2. Member’s name
         56.18.3.3.3. Reason member claims exempt from withholding.
     56.18.3.4. Due to state residency requirements, members claiming exemption from SITW, who
     PCS into their state of legal residency (based on location of servicing FSO in LG entry), will sys-
     tematically be changed to SITW deduction election single (S) with zero (0) exemptions. The
     member must submit a TD Form W-4 to change this as applicable, and the FSO is to process the
     FK04 transaction. However, the system will not automatically change the SITW deduction elec-
     tion to “N” when a member PCSs from their state of legal residence.
  56.18.4. Status Changes. When a member’s status changes to ‘T’ for any reason, next month SITW
  deductions are suspended to avoid over deduction for members pending separation. If a member is in
  ‘T’ status from more than one month, and returns to active duty, management notice U803 is output to
  the servicing FSO one month after return to active duty. Advise the member that additional SITW
  deducted for the remainder of the year may prevent under withholding penalties by the state.
  56.18.5. Filing Requirement. Military members are responsible for filing a state income tax return
  annually, regardless of where the member is stationed.
890                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


56.19. Unique State and Territory Residency Requirements. The following states and territories have
unique requirements which affect military members who are legal residents. Active duty members with
legal residence in these states declare rates, allowances or exclusions for SITW, as noted.
      56.19.1. Arizona.
         56.19.1.1. Arizona Form A-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate, is used when a
         member changes withholding percentage. Withholding percentages allowed by Arizona are listed
         in Attachment 14.
         56.19.1.2. Effective 1 January 2007, compensation received for active service as a member of the
         military (active duty, Reserve, or Guard), including combat zone excluded pay, may be subtracted
         when computing Arizona adjusted gross income. Additional information on treatment of military
         income can be found in Arizona Department of Revenue Publication 704 (www.azdor.gov/bro-
         chure/704.pdf). Questions on Arizona requirements should be referred to the Arizona Department
         of Revenue. Members may contact the Arizona Department of Revenue at
                                       Arizona Department of Revenue
                                       Forms Distribution Unit
                                       1600 West Monroe St.
                                       Phoenix AZ 85007
         or by phone at (602)542-4260.
             56.19.1.2.1. Deleted
             56.19.1.2.2. Deleted
      56.19.2. California, Idaho, Pennsylvania, and Vermont.
         56.19.2.1. Members who claim one of these states as their state of legal residence, and are sta-
         tioned outside that state, can claim exemption from state withholding by submitting a DD Form
         2058-1, or TD Form W-4.
         56.19.2.2. Withholding will automatically begin when a member is assigned to duty in one of
         these states, based on the location of the servicing FSO (ADSN of LG entry). Members may elect
         to claim exemption and stop SITW if the actual duty station is located outside the state.
      56.19.3. Connecticut, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, and Oregon.
         56.19.3.1. Members who believe they meet the three criteria below may declare themselves
         exempt from state withholding. Members must:
             56.19.3.1.1. not maintain a permanent place of abode in the applicable state;
             56.19.3.1.2. have a permanent place of abode elsewhere; and
             56.19.3.1.3. have physically spent less than 31 days during the year in the applicable state.
         56.19.3.2. Members must submit the substantiating document applicable to each state as follows:
             56.19.3.2.1. Connecticut - CT-W4, Employee's Withholding or Exemption Certificate. The
             CT-W4 can be obtained by calling Connecticut Taxpayer Services at (806) 297-5962, or con-
             tacting them at the address provided in Attachment 5. Form CT-W4 should be completed so
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           891


         that the correct amount of income tax is withheld. Members who claim exemption from tax
         withholding must file a new certificate for the following year on or before February 15.
         DJMS-AC will withhold 4.5% beginning February 16, when a new form CT-W4 is not filed by
         members claiming exemptions from withholding.
         56.19.3.2.2. Missouri - DOR Form 374, Statement of Non-residency, or MO Form W4,
         Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. Missouri allows the use of the DD Form
         2058-1, State Income Tax Exemption Test Certificate, in lieu of the DOR Form 374.
         56.19.3.2.3. New Jersey, New York, and Oregon - DD Form 2058-1.
  56.19.4. Guam. DFAS-DE reports to the IRS on a quarterly basis the FITW amounts related to mem-
  bers claiming residency in Guam. The FSOs should verify the information input in the MG and MH
  entries of members claiming residency in Guam to ensure these members are being correctly reported.
  The MG entry should equal “99”, and the MH entry should equal “GQ”.
  56.19.5. Ohio. Ohio Revised Code provides that for taxable years beginning on and after Jan. 1, 2007,
  an Ohio resident member can deduct active duty military pay and allowances that are included in fed-
  eral adjusted gross income if those amounts are received while the stationed outside Ohio. The term
  "stationed" refers to an Ohio resident service member’s permanent place of military duty. Periods of
  training in which a service member, either individually or as part of a unit, departs the permanent
  place of duty and then returns following the completion of the training, is not included in the defini-
  tion of "stationed." Members who are legal residents of Ohio, but stationed outside Ohio, complete IT
  4 MIL, Military Employee Exemption from Withholding. This form allows the member to exempt
  military pay and allowances received for active duty service while stationed outside the state of Ohio
  from the withholding of Ohio income and Ohio school district income taxes. To qualify for the exemp-
  tion, the military member must complete this form in full, sign it and submit it to his/her finance
  office. The form is available on the Ohio Department of Taxation website at:
  http://tax.ohio.gov/documents/forms/ohio_individual/individual/2007/IT_IT4MIL.pdf (see Fig-
  ure 56.7.). Military pay and allowances for members who are Ohio residents stationed inside Ohio are
  subject to Ohio individual income tax and also to school district income tax if the member resides in a
  taxing school district. If a member is not eligible to claim exemption from Ohio income tax withhold-
  ing, the member must complete Ohio form IT 4, available at tax.ohio.gov. Whether income is exempt
  from Ohio state withholding or not, Ohio residents are required to file Ohio state income tax returns.
     56.19.5.1. Members who believe they meet the criteria below may declare themselves exempt
     from state withholding. Members must:
         56.19.5.1.1. Maintain at least one abode outside of Ohio during the entire tax year,
         56.19.5.1.2. Maintain no permanent place of abode in Ohio during the entire tax year, and
         56.19.5.1.3. Not have more than 120 contact periods in Ohio during the tax year. A contact
         period is defined as an overnight trip away from the member’s abode outside Ohio, if the
         member spends at least a portion of two consecutive days in Ohio while away overnight.
     56.19.5.2. Member’s may submit either a DD Form 2058-1 or Ohio state Form IT-4, Employee’s
     Withholding Exemption Certificate, with a statement, to claim exemption. See Figure 56.7. for
     the recommended statement members should sign. Members can obtain this form by calling the
     Ohio Department of Taxation at (614) 846-6712, or writing to the address provided in Attach-
     ment 5.
892                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         56.19.5.3. FSOs should advise all members that the ultimate liability for Ohio state income tax is
         between the state of Ohio, and the individual member.
      56.19.6. Puerto Rico.
         56.19.6.1. The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, Public Law no. 105-34, amended 5 U.S.C. § 5517 to
         authorize the Department of the Treasury and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to enter into a
         tax withholding agreement. The agreement was executed November 17, 1997, and is effective
         January 1, 1998. Military members who claim the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico as their legal
         residence will have taxes withheld as follows:
             56.19.6.1.1. No federal income tax, only Puerto Rican income tax withheld as SITW, when
             duty station is outside the 50 states (us). Tax will be computed based on tax rate table.
             56.19.6.1.2. Federal income tax, with no SITW, will be withheld when duty station is within
             the U.S.
             56.19.6.1.3. Members stationed within Puerto Rico will have only SITW, no FITW, deducted.
             56.19.6.1.4. All taxable wages will be reported on member’s TD Form W-2, wage and tax
             statement, as both federal and state wages.
         56.19.6.2. Advise members, claiming residency in Puerto Rico, of the following:
             56.19.6.2.1. Member must file both a federal and Puerto Rico income tax return at the end of
             the year.
             56.19.6.2.2. Members who may qualify for earned income credit (EIC) are eligible for
             advanced payment of EIC with submission of a TD Form W-5, Earned Income Credit
             Advance Payment Certificate. See Figure 56.2. for form sample.
             56.19.6.2.3. Advise members to contact the unit tax advisor or legal assistance office for fur-
             ther information or assistance.

Section 56D—Combat Zone Tax Exclusion.

56.20. Definitions.
      56.20.1. Combat Zone (CZ). A CZ is any area designated by Executive Order as an area in which
      Armed Forces of the United States are, or have, engaged in combat. Service is performed in a combat
      zone only if performed on or after the date designated by the Executive Order as the date of the com-
      mencing of combat activities, and on or before the termination date in designated zone. DoDFMR,
      Volume 7A, chapter 44, contains the areas currently considered CZs.
      56.20.2. Qualified Hazardous Duty Area (QHDA). A QHDA is a military Contingency Operation
      Area designated by Public Law to receive the same tax benefits as a CZ, with one major difference. In
      order for a QHDA to be eligible for CZTE, the QHDA must be designated for entitlement to hostile
      fire/imminent danger pay (HF/IDP). DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 10, provides the areas currently
      designated to receive HF/IDP entitlement.
      56.20.3. Direct Support. Service is in direct support of military operations in a CZ or QHDA if it has
      the effect of maintaining, upholding, or providing assistance for those involved in military operations
      in the CZ or QHDA. Commander in Chief, Europe (CINCEUR), is the approving authority for all
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              893


   European theater determinations of direct support, and certifies which members qualify for tax relief
   by virtue of service in direct support of CZ, or QHDA operations such as Operation Joint Endeavor,
   Able Sentry, or Provide Comfort. Service members and unit commanders, who are not in the CZ or
   QHDA, may not self-certify their entitlement to the tax relief. Requests must be processed through
   the appropriate chain of command.

56.21. Combat Zone Tax Exclusion (CZTE).
   56.21.1. A CZ does not require the HF/IDP entitlement to receive CZTE. Per DoDFMR Volume 7A,
   chapter 44, a member is entitled to CZTE for any month during any part in which:
      56.21.1.1. The member performs active service in an area designated by executive order as a CZ,
      or
      56.21.1.2. Provides direct support of military operations in a CZ, and is entitled to HF/IDP, or
      56.21.1.3. Performs active service with entitlement to HF/IDP in a QHDA, or
      56.21.1.4. Provides direct support of operations in the QHDA through active service performed in
      a HF/IDP-designated area outside the QHDA (i.e., a member maintaining airplanes, in a HF/
      IDP-designated area, that are being flown over the QHDA in support of Operation Joint
      Endeavor).
   56.21.2. A member is also entitled to CZTE for direct support of QHDA operations when the mem-
   ber, whose permanent duty station is outside the QHDA which is an area not HF/IDP-designated (i.e.,
   Hungary or Italy), and flies official missions into the air space of the QHDA. This member's CZTE
   entitlement is based on entitlement to HF/IDP as a result of active service performed in QHDA air
   space in direct support of operations in the QHDA (i.e., Joint Endeavor).
   56.21.3. A member is not entitled to CZTE for direct support of QHDA operations when the member,
   who performs the aircraft maintenance service in support of military operations in the QHDA, is in an
   area outside the QHDA that is not HF/IDP-designated (i.e., Hungary, Italy). CZTE entitlement for
   direct support of QHDA operations is conditional on HF/IDP entitlement. The member is, however,
   entitled to an extension of the deadline for filing their federal income tax return when the Secretary of
   Defense, or his designee, certifies that such active service is in direct support of operations in the
   QHDA, and the member's orders reflect the direct support assignment.
   56.21.4. The exclusion amount for an officer is limited to an amount equal to the basic pay of the
   highest ranking enlisted member, plus IDP if applicable. DJMS Table 074 contains the amounts appli-
   cable for each year. Additionally, officers can only have excluded that portion of a bonus that is
   between the monthly pay and the exclusion limit (cap). Example: An officer has regular taxable wages
   for May 07 of $4,000 and an ACP bonus of $100,000, with the first $50,000 due 1 May 07. This mem-
   ber is entitled to CZTE and IDP for the month of May 07. The exclusion for this member is limited to
   $6,687.60 for the month of May and future installments on the ACP bonus remain taxable, regardless
   of whether paid during a month in which the member is present in the combat zone. There is no exclu-
   sion limit for enlisted members. NOTE: Prior to November 22, 1995, the maximum amount exclud-
   able for officers was $500.00.

56.22. Substantiating Documents. The documentation required for a member to be entitled to CZTE
will be one of the following:
894                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      56.22.1. Member’s orders authorizing them to enter the QHDA (which is authorized HF/IDP), or a
      CZ. See Figure 56.5.
      56.22.2. Travel voucher with a commander’s certification that the unit, or member, has performed
      active duty service within a QHDA (which is authorized HF/IDP), or a CZ.
      56.22.3. Assignment to a unit that has been determined to be in direct support.

56.23. CZTE Withholding Election.
      56.23.1. For Enlisted Members and Warrant Officers. The CZ-DEDTN field in the 23, or
      CZ-DEDTCN field of the FL, transaction will contain “0” if CZTE is not authorized, and “1” if CZTE
      is authorized.
      56.23.2. For Officers. Officers may continue all or part of their FITW/SITW while in a combat zone.
      Officers requesting continuation of withholding must submit either a TD Form W-4, or a request indi-
      cating whether all, or part of the normal withholding should continue to be deducted. A copy of the
      request (used in lieu of TD Form W-4) authorizing FSOs to continue withholding should be main-
      tained the same as a TD Form W-4. See Figure 56.8. The CZ-DEDTN field in the 23, or
      CZ-DEDTCN field of the FL, transaction will contain “0” if CZTE is not authorized. Input one of the
      codes indicated in Figure 56.9. if CZTE is authorized.

56.24. CZTE While Hospitalized. Members are entitled to CZTE for any month they are hospitalized,
or re-hospitalized, as a result of wounds, disease or injury incurred while serving in a CZ, or QHDA. Use
the FID FL to report their entitlement to CZTE. CZTE entitlement should be documented by medical
opinion from a military physician that states the member's hospitalization is the result of wounds, disease
or injury incurred while serving in a combat zone. FID FL must be reentered each month, prior to
month-end restructure, when a member’s hospitalization covers more than one month.

56.25. Leave Earned in a CZ or QHDA.
      56.25.1. The value of leave earned in the CZ, or QHDA, is fully excludable from taxable wages for
      enlisted members, and warrant officers, when used or sold, to the extent the leave was accrued during
      any month in any part of which the enlisted member actually served in a CZ or QHDA. For officers,
      the value of leave earned during any month in any part of which they served in the CZ, or QHDA, may
      be excluded, not to exceed the “maximum enlisted amount” for the month of service to which the
      leave was earned, less the amount of wages already excluded for that month. The term “maximum
      enlisted amount” refers to the highest amount payable to the highest enlisted grade, plus imminent
      danger pay, if applicable.
      56.25.2. A member earns 2.5 days leave for each full month of active duty. If a member serves any
      portion of a month in a CZ or QHDA, the leave earned during that month is subject to CZTE. For any
      month a member is not eligible to earn the full 2.5 days, i.e., accession or separation at a time during
      the month which prevents 2.5 days leave being earned, the member earns .5 days leave for every six
      days on active duty. If a member serves any portion of a month in a CZ or QHDA, the leave earned
      during that month is subject to CZTE. The amount of CZ or QHDA tax exempt leave available for
      sale, or use, is reduced first as leave is sold or used. For example, if the member accrues 30 days leave
      in the CZ or QHDA, and uses 30 days immediately upon return, the member will not have any leave
      that will be tax excludable when leave is later sold or used. On the other hand, if the member only
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            895


   uses 15 days of the 30 days earned, a balance of 15 days will exist, and must be included first for any
   subsequent sell or use of leave.
   56.25.3. DJMS currently withholds taxes on leave as it is used or sold. The FSO notifies DFAS-DE,
   via CMS, and requests an adjustment to ensure the member receives the tax benefit. No source docu-
   ment relative to this process is required to be submitted.
   56.25.4. The 23, BS, and FL entries on the MMPA are used to determine the validity of the adjust-
   ment requested. The leave being sold, or used, must be verified to ensure it does in fact encompass an
   amount of leave actually earned in a CZ or QHDA that has not previously been sold or used.
   56.25.5. The following results will occur from adjustments, as applicable:
       56.25.5.1. Adjustments made for current tax year cause member’s taxable wages and withhold-
       ings to be corrected. Changes to withholding amounts will result in refund as appropriate. Mem-
       ber’s TD Form W2, Wage and Tax statement, for current tax year will reflect adjusted amounts.
       56.25.5.2. Adjustments made for prior tax year(s) result in member’s taxable wages being
       adjusted, and A TD Form W2C, corrected wage and tax statement, being issued. No adjustment
       will be made to amounts withheld, and no refunds will be made. Member must file an amended
       tax return to receive any refund due.

56.26. LES Remarks for CZTE. The amount of CZTE wages a member earned during the calendar
year will be displayed on the LES in March, June, September and December. Members should be advised
to review this information, and bring any discrepancies to the attention of the FSO. CZTE wages are not
included in taxable income on a member's TD Form W-2 at year end, but are included as part of the
Non-Taxable Earned Income reported in block 13. If a member is applying for the earned income credit
(EIC), the amount in block 13 must be included in "Earned Income" to determine the amount of EIC the
member is eligible for (See Section 56B - EARNED INCOME CREDIT).

56.27. FSO Responsibility. DJMS-AC processing will be as follows:
   56.27.1. When a member is in a CZ or QHDA designated for HF/IDP and CZTE IAW DoDFMR,
   Volume 7A, chapters 10 and 44, respectively, the FID 23 transaction will be used to start/report enti-
   tlement. See Chapter 13 of this manual for further specifics regarding the input of FID 23 transac-
   tions.
   56.27.2. FID FL transaction(s) will be used when a member is performing extended official duty in an
   area entitled to CZTE, but not entitled to HF/IDP. See Figure 56.16. and Figure 56.17. for transaction
   formats(s).
       56.27.2.1. Start (FL01). Transaction will be used when member is authorized a continuing CZTE,
       but not HF/IDP. The start date cannot be for a future month, just current or prior.
           56.27.2.1.1. Transactions with current month and year effective dates will decrease federal
           and state wages, and refund applicable federal and state taxes for current month only.
           Decreased amounts will be reflected in the FJ and FK (if applicable) entry(ies), respectively,
           on the MMPA for wages and withholdings. Refunds will be reflected in the FID P9 entry(ies)
           with PAY-DEDTN-TYPE = Z (federal), and = Y (state).
           56.27.2.1.2. Transactions with retroactive effective dates of prior month, current year, will
           decrease current month and year-to-date federal and state wages, and will refund federal and
896                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         state taxes that were withheld for prior month(s) in addition to the actions discussed in para-
         graph 56.27.2.1.1. above.
         56.27.2.1.3. Transactions with retroactive effective date of prior month, prior year, will adjust
         prior year federal and state wages in addition to actions discussed in paragraphs 56.27.2.1.1.
         and 56.27.2.1.1.2 above. No refund will be made of taxes previously withheld. TD Form
         W-2C, Statement of Corrected Income and Tax Amounts, will be generated showing change in
         wages. Member must file amended tax return to receive any refund of prior year taxes with-
         held.
      56.27.2.2. Stop (FL02). Transaction will be used when member is no longer entitled to CZTE.
      Stop date must be prior to current date. When stop date is current month, transaction will recycle
      until first calendar day of following month.
         56.27.2.2.1. Transactions with current month and year effective date will result in a re-compu-
         tation of current and next month's federal, and state wage and withholding amounts, if applica-
         ble. Increased amounts will be reflected in the FJ and FK (if applicable) entry(ies),
         respectively, on the MMPA with start = 7777 for wages and withholdings.
         56.27.2.2.2. Transactions with retroactive effective date of prior month, current year, will
         re-compute prior and current month(s), and year to date federal and state wages and withhold-
         ings. Collection of federal and state taxes for prior month(s) will be reflected in P9 entry(ies)
         with negative dollar amounts in addition to the actions discussed in paragraph 56.27.2.1.
         above.
         56.27.2.2.3. Transactions with retroactive effective date of prior month, prior year, will adjust
         prior year federal and state wages in addition to actions discussed in paragraphs 56.27.2.2.1.
         and 56.27.2.2.2. above. No collection of taxes will occur. TD Form W-2C, Corrected Wage
         and Tax Statement, will be generated showing change in wages. Member must file amended
         tax return to reconcile with the Internal Revenue Service any prior year taxes owed.
      56.27.2.3. Report (FL03). Used to report CZTE only when the member was in a CZ not desig-
      nated to receive HF/IDP IAW DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 44. Report CZTE for months indi-
      cated. The start and stop months must be prior to the current month, or the transaction will reject.
      FL03 transactions processed for the current year will reduce year-to-date Federal and state taxable
      wages, and refund withholdings for the months indicated depending on the CZ-DEDTCN election
      code. When input for prior years, prior year Federal and state taxable wages will be adjusted if
      within IAS. Otherwise, a management notice is sent to DFAS-DE/FJP to adjust prior year Federal
      and state taxable wages. A TD Form W-2C will be issued from the 5-Year Tax History system
      correcting taxable wages only. Prior year withholdings will be corrected when the member files
      an individual tax return.
      56.27.2.4. Correct (FL05). Used to correct CZTE start or stop dates in an existing history FID FL
      entry. FL05 transactions for the current year will adjust Federal taxable wages and withholdings,
      and state taxable wages depending on CZ-DEDTCN election. When an FL05 transaction is input
      for prior years, the FID FL will be corrected (if within IAS), Federal and state wages will be
      adjusted, and a TD Form W-2C will be created.
      56.27.2.5. Cancel (FL06). Used to cancel previously reported CZTE authorization. When can-
      celing an FID FL, a history one-time entitlement FID FJ entry is created to increase year-to-date
      Federal taxable wages and collect current year Federal withholdings depending on the
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          897


     CZ-DEDTCN election. These entries are easily identified by the '7777' in the start date field. A
     history one-time FID FK, similar to the one-time FID FJ, is built along with the FID FJ, if appli-
     cable. When an FL06 transaction is input for a prior year, the FL entry will be canceled (if within
     IAS), Federal and state wages will be adjusted, and a W-2C will be created. A management notice
     is sent to DFAS-DE/FJP to adjust prior year Federal and state taxable wages if outside IAS.
  56.27.3. FSOs are required to ensure processing continuity is maintained. If CZTE is initially pro-
  cessed with HF/IDP transactions, i.e., 2301 and 2303, all adjustments to that period of CZTE authori-
  zation must be processed through HF/IDP transactions, i.e., 2302, 2305 and 2306.
898                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.1. TD Form W-4, Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007   899
900                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.2. TD Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007   901
902                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.3. DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  903


Figure 56.4. DD Form 2058-1, State Income Tax Exemption Test Certificate.
904                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.5. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (Combat Tax Exclusion).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              905


Figure 56.6. Earned Income Credit (EIC) Worksheet.
                                  EARNED INCOME WORKSHEET


        Earned Income Credit (EIC) is a tax credit which may reduce your income tax liability at the end
of the year. EIC is available to you if your earned income and adjusted gross income are below the EIC
thresholds. Military members must figure adjusted gross income and earned income to be sure both are
below the threshold.


       Advance Payment of Earned Income Credit (APEIC). DFAS will advance equal installments of
your EIC in each paycheck if you meet the requirements per TD Form W-5, Earned Income Credit
Advance Payment Certificate.


       Earned Income. This term includes all taxable items of pay (i.e. basic pay, and special pay).
Because of the effect of earned income, APEIC is only available to members whose earned income does
not exceed $29,665 for 2003. Check the current year’s TD Form W-5 for annual limits.


       This worksheet is provided to help you complete the request for advance payment of EIC. Per-
form the following computation to determine if you are eligible for the credit.


       INCOME                                        MONTHLY


Taxable Wages (Use the values in the “Wage Period”                   $____________
block in the “FED TAXES” line of your LES)


(Multiply subtotal by 12 to determine your annual earned
income for W-5 purposes.)                     ANNUAL PAY ____________


Spouse’s Wages (Add your spouse’s annual pay)
       Monthly $__________ X 12 =                             ____________


                       HOUSEHOLD EARNED INCOME*$_____________


* NOTE: If your Household Earned Income is smaller than the limit on the TD Form W-5, you are enti-
tled to EIC; however, if it is larger, you are not eligible to receive APEIC or claim EIC when you file your
tax return.
906                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.7. OHIO EXEMPTION STATEMENT.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007   907
908                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.8. OFFICER CZTE CERTIFICATION STATEMENT.
                                  CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
                 WITHHOLDING ELECTION FOR OFFICERS ENTITLED TO
                           COMBAT ZONE TAX EXCLUSION (CZTE)
                        FOR TAX YEAR BEGINNING JANUARY 1, 199__


        Pursuant to the provisions of Treasury Reg. 31.3402(p)-1, I request that income taxes be withheld
from my pay for any period that I am serving in a combat zone. Military pay, by law, is exempt from Fed-
eral and state withholding; however, I am relinquishing my right to have all or part of my FITW and
SITW refunded back. The amount of FITW withheld should be either:


         1. Based on total taxable wages less the maximum monthly wage exclusion, and the withholding
status I claim; Code = 2
       2. Based on total taxable wages without regard to the maximum monthly wage exclusion, and the
withholding status I claim; Code = 3
       3. Based on the previous withholding election from the history FID FL; Code = 4


              Name (printed)
              _________________________________________________________________
              SSN              FSO/Disbursing Office
              ______-____-________ ____________________________________________
              Address                                      Grade
              _______________________________________________________ _________




      My withholding option is code _____. (Choice is either 2, 3, or 4 above.) NOTE: Code 2 is
automatically set-up for members entitled to CZTE.


       ________________________________________________________________________
       BRANCH OF SERVICE, AND MEMBER’S ORGANIZATION


       ________________________________________________________________________
       SIGNATURE                            DATE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         909


Figure 56.9. CZTE Withholding Election Codes.


                        CZTE WITHHOLDING ELECTION CODE


      CODE         EXPLANATION


         1         No federal and state deductions


         2         Federal and state deductions are based on total taxable wages
                   less monthly wage exclusion (equal to maximum enlisted
                   monthly basic pay amount, plus HF/IDP, if applicable). Refer
                   to DJMS on-line Table 074 for current maximum amount.


         3         Federal and state deductions are based on total taxable wages
                   without regard to monthly wage exclusion.


         4         Federal and state deductions are based on the previous
                   withholding election from the history FL entry.
910                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.10. Format to Change Tax Withholding Amount.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0FD04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


      30-36     FITW-ADDITIONAL-AMOUNT: ADDITIONAL AMOUNT OF FITW
                WITHHOLDING; ZEROS FOR STOP ACTION; BLANK IF NOT CHANGING


       37       SITW-SPECIFIC-DEDUCTION:
                1--DEDUCT USING SITW TABLE
                2--DEDUCT AMOUNT IN CP 38-44 (CP 45-46 IS USED FOR ARIZONA TAX
                ONLY)


      38-44     AMOUNT OF CURRENT MONTH SITW DEDUCTION


      45-46     SITW-PERCENTAGE-ELECTION: PERCENTAGE OF STATE INCOME TAX
                WITHHOLDING. (USED FOR ARIZONA TAX ONLY)


       47       HOSTILE FIRE PAY QUALIFIER CODE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     911


Figure 56.11. Format to Start/Stop Advance Payment of Earned Income Credit.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0FE01/02


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      DATE-START
                FE01: START DATE OF APEIC (YMM01)
                FE02: NOT APPLICABLE


     26-31      DATE-STOP
                FE01: ZEROS
                FE02: STOP DATE OF APEIC (YYMMDD)--STOP DATE MUST BE LAST DAY
                OF THE MONTH


       32       APEIC-BEN
                1--HALF BENEFITS (SPOUSE HAS TD FORM W-5 IN EFFECT)
                2--FULL BENEFITS (SPOUSE DOESN’T HAVE TD FORM W-5 IN EFFECT)


                NOTE: FE02 STOPS APEIC AT THE END OF THE PRIOR MONTH, $0
                CURRENT MONTH ADVANCE
912                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.12. Format to Change Tax Withholding Code.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0FF04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


       32       APPLICABLE CODE FOR FEDERAL WITHHOLDING PURPOSES:
                M—MARRIED
                S--SINGLE, OR MARRIED BUT WITHHOLDING AT A HIGHER RATE
                BLANK IF NOT BEING CHANGED


       34       APPLICABLE CODE FOR STATE WITHHOLDING PURPOSES:
                M—MARRIED
                S—SINGLE
                N--NON RESIDENT OF STATE WITH RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT
                BLANK IF NOT BEING CHANGED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              913


Figure 56.13. Format to Change Number of Tax Withholding Allowances.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0FG04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


     32-33      NUMBER OF ALLOWANCES FOR FEDERAL WITHHOLDING PURPOSES
                BLANK IF NOT BEING CHANGED


     35-36      NUMBER OF ALLOWANCES FOR STATE WITHHOLDING PURPOSES
                BLANK IF NOT BEING CHANGED
914                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.14. Format to Change Federal Income Tax Withholding (FITW) Information.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0FJ04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23     START-W4 (YYMM), EFFECTIVE 1ST DAY OF MONTH INDICATED.
                (CURRENT MONTH OR NEXT MONTH.) IF NEXT MONTH IS USED, WILL
                RECYCLE UNTIL FIRST UPDATE IN THAT CALENDAR MONTH.


       24       DEDUCTION-ELECTION. APPLICABLE CODES:
                M—MARRIED
                S--SINGLE OR MARRIED BUT WITHHOLDING AT HIGHER RATE
                N--EXEMPT FROM FITW
                A--EXEMPT FROM FITW, NON-RESIDENT ALIEN (NAVY ONLY)
                BLANK IF NO CHANGE


      25-26     NR-XMPTNS (NUMBER OF EXEMPTIONS)
                TWO DIGIT NUMERIC OR BLANK IF NO CHANGE


      27-33     ADDITIONAL AMOUNT OF FITW. ZERO FILL TO STOP ADDITIONAL
                FEDERAL WITHHOLDING, AND WHEN DEDUCTION-ELECTION EQUALS
                A OR N. BLANK IF NO CHANGE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        915


Figure 56.15. Format to Change State Income Tax Withholding (SITW) Information.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0FK04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      START-W4 (YYMM), EFFECTIVE 1ST DAY ON MONTH INDICATED.
                (CURRENT MONTH OR NEXT MONTH.) IF NEXT MONTH IS USED, WILL
                RECYCLE UNTIL FIRST UPDATE IN THAT CALENDAR MONTH.


      24        DEDUCTION-ELECTION. APPLICABLE CODES:
                M—MARRIED
                S--SINGLE OR MARRIED BUT WITHHOLDING AT HIGHER RATE
                N--EXEMPT FROM SITW
                BLANK IF NO CHANGE


     25-26      NR-XMPTNS (NUMBER OF EXEMPTIONS)
                TWO DIGIT NUMERIC OR BLANK IF NO CHANGE


     27-33      ADDITIONAL AMOUNT OF SITW. ZERO FILL TO STOP ADDITIONAL
                STATE WITHHOLDING, AND WHEN DEDUCTION-ELECTION EQUALS A
                OR N. BLANK IF NO CHANGE


     34-36      PERCENTAGE--APPLICABLE IF STATE OF LEGAL RESIDENCY IS
                ARIZONA (04).
                MUST EQUAL ONE OF THE FOLLOWING
                10% = 100
                20% = 200
                22% = 220
                28% = 280
                32% = 320
                SPACES IF NOT APPLICABLE
916                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.16. Formats to Start/Stop Combat Zone Tax Exclusion When Hostile Fire/Imminent
Danger Pay is Not Authorized.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0FL01/02


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     DATE-START
                FL01: EFFECTIVE DATE CZTE SHOULD START
                FL02: LAST DAY THROUGH WHICH CZTE IS AUTHORIZED (SEE NOTE 1)


      26-31     BLANK


       32       COMBAT ZONE EXCLUSION CODE.
                FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS AND WARRANT OFFICERS:
                1 - NO TAXES WITHHELD. IF RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE WITHIN
                CURRENT YEAR, FITW AND/OR SITW WILL BE REFUNDED.
                FOR OFFICERS ONLY:
                1 - NO TAXES WITHHELD. IF RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE WITHIN
                CURRENT YEAR, FITW AND/OR SITW WILL BE REFUNDED.
                2 - FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGES MINUS APPROPRIATE
                WAGE EXCLUSION AMOUNT.
                3 - FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE WITHOUT REGARD TO
                WAGE EXCLUSION AMOUNT. NO REFUND IF RETROACTIVE.
                4 - PRIOR ELECTION FROM THE LATEST HISTORY FL ENTRY.


      33-34     COUNTRY WORLD. COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED CZTE. SEE
                Attachment 16 FOR COUNTRY CODES. SEE NOTE 2.


      35-67     BLANK


      68-80     COMMON DATA.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          917


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             NOTE 1: FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02, CP 26-67 ARE BLANK.


             NOTE 2: USE COUNTRY CODE ‘XX’ TO AVOID COMPROMISING
             CLASSIFIED OPERATIONS.
918                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.17. Formats to Report/Correct Combat Zone Tax Exclusion When Hostile Fire/Immi-
nent Danger Pay is Not Authorized.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0FL03/05


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     DATE START: YYMMDD
                FL03: EFFECTIVE DATE CZTE STARTED
                FL05: CORRECT EFFECTIVE DATE, OR ZEROS


      26-31     DATE STOP: YYMMDD
                FL03: EFFECTIVE DATE THROUGH WHICH CZTE WAS AUTHORIZED
                FL05: CORRECT CZTE STOP DATE, OR ZEROS


       32       COMBAT ZONE EXCLUSION CODE.
                FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS AND WARRANT OFFICERS:
                1 - NO TAXES WITHHELD. IF RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE WITHIN
                CURRENT YEAR, FITW AND/OR SITW WILL BE REFUNDED.
                FOR OFFICERS ONLY:
                1 - NO TAXES WITHHELD. IF RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE WITHIN
                CURRENT YEAR, FITW AND/OR SITW WILL BE REFUNDED.
                2 - FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGES MINUS APPROPRIATE
                WAGE EXCLUSION AMOUNT.
                3 - FITW AND SITW BASED ON TAXABLE WAGE WITHOUT REGARD TO
                WAGE EXCLUSION AMOUNT. NO REFUND IF RETROACTIVE.
                4 - PRIOR ELECTION FROM THE LATEST HISTORY FL ENTRY.


      33-34     COUNTRY WORLD. COUNTRY CODE AUTHORIZED CZTE. SEE
                Attachment 16 FOR COUNTRY CODES. SEE NOTE 2.


      35-67     BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                          919


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    56-61    PRIOR START DATE
             FL03: BLANK
             FL05: START DATE FROM ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS


    62-67    PRIOR STOP DATE
             FL03: BLANK
             FL05: STOP DATE FROM ENTRY BEING CORRECTED OR ZEROS


    68-80    COMMON DATA


             NOTE 1: FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02, CP 26-67 ARE BLANK.
920                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.18. Format to Cancel Combat Zone Tax Exclusion When Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger
Pay is Not Authorized.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0FL06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     DATE-START: EFFECTIVE DATE FROM CZTE ENTRY BEING CANCELED


      26-31     DATE-STOP: EFFECTIVE DATE FROM CZTE ENTRY BEING CANCELED


       32       BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  921


Figure 56.19. Format to Start/Stop/Change Exemption From Tax Withholding.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0FQ01/02/04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD MEMBER DATED TD FORM W-4


     32-33      CALENDAR-YEAR: LAST TWO DIGITS OF CURRENT CALENDAR YEAR
                FOR 01 AND 04. BLANK FOR 02
922                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 56.20. Format to Change Taxing Authority - City/State.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0MG04


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      32-34      TAXING AUTHORITY CITY/STATE CODE: SEE Attachment 5


      35-36      PERCENTAGE: IF ARIZONA (14) IN CHARACTER POSITIONS 32-34, VALID
                 PERCENTAGE, ELSE BLANK. MUST EQUAL ONE OF THE FOLLOWING
                 VALID PERCENTAGES:
                 10% = 100
                 20% = 200
                 22% = 220
                 28% = 280
                 32% = 320


                 NOTE: CHECK LIST OF STATES WITH RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
                 MEMBERS WHO MEET CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS ARE EXEMPT FROM
                 STATE INCOME TAXES. AN FK04 TRANSACTION WITH SITW
                 DEDUCTION ELECTION - N IS NECESSARY TO PREVENT SITW
                 DEDUCTION FOR THESE MEMBERS.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             923


                                              Chapter 57

                                       ALLOTMENTS OF PAY

57.1. Description. General provisions and descriptions governing all allotments of pay may be found in
DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 41 through 43. The minimum monthly amount for allotments is $1
except when there are specific guidelines elsewhere in this chapter. Allotments should not be started to
individual addresses, unless the member has obtained an individual waiver from his or her commander or
the allotment is to an overseas country not services by the Overseas Military Banking Program. All allot-
ments should be started using the company code format with a company code obtained from Table 050.
DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop or Change an Allotment (Figure 57.1.), is the preferred form
for allotment changes. However SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-up Form (Figure 57.2.); FMS Form
2231, Faststart Direct Deposit (Figure 38.3.); and DD Form 2762, Direct Deposit Authorization (Figure
38.3.) may be used for allotments to financial institutions.

57.2. Active Duty Allotments:
   57.2.1. Allottable Pay. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 41 and 43, for pay and allowances which
   may be allotted.
   57.2.2. Allotments Administratively Established. See the DoDFMR for information on administra-
   tively establishing allotments for dependents and payment of rent of premises occupied for dwelling
   purposes by dependents of members. Such allotments administratively authorized may be stopped at
   member's request.
       57.2.2.1. Dependents' Allotment. If FSO, commander, or commander of a GSU and/or appointed
       representative finds qualified dependents of member experiencing financial difficulties warranting
       an allotment, complete DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop, or Change an Allotment, with
       attached documentation to support administrative establishment of allotment. Signature block of
       form designated for member must contain signature of individual authorizing allotment.
           57.2.2.1.1. Servicing FSO verifies data, to extent possible, with current MMPA data, and
           sends DD Form 2558 to DFAS-DE in the monthly supporting document package.
           57.2.2.1.2. If there is a question concerning validity of marriage, FSO submits application in
           letter form to DFAS-DE/FJPD with supporting documents.
       57.2.2.2. Dependents' Rent. If FSO or member's commander finds that member's dependents are
       experiencing financial difficulties and/or other crisis situation causing possible eviction for non-
       payment of rent, complete DD Form 2558. The signature block must contain the signature of the
       commander or appointed representative.
NOTE: The allotment administratively established for rent is not to be used as the solution to member's
financial irresponsibility.
           57.2.2.2.1. Make the allotment authorization payable to the Financial Institution furnished by
           the owner or agent of the premises. The owner or the agent must furnish the complete name
           and address of the Financial Institution and the account number where the allotment is to be
           sent.
924                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             57.2.2.2.2. Attach documentation to the DD Form 2558 to support administrative establish-
             ment of allotment.
      57.2.3. Effective Date. Allotments are started for indefinite periods except for class C, F, and T,
      which are made for definite periods. Starts (01) and increases (07) are effective first day of the current
      processing month if pay due is sufficient to pay allotment. The servicing FSO must establish controls
      to ensure:
         57.2.3.1. Project officers responsible for charitable allotment authorizations forward them to the
         input source in a timely manner.
         57.2.3.2. Changes (04) and decreases (08) are effective first day of current processing month.
         Stops (02) may be effective either at the end of the prior processing month or at the end of the cur-
         rent processing month. If an allotment is to be canceled, the stop date must be the month before
         the start date of the allotment and must be input during the same processing month as the start.
             57.2.3.2.1. Class C, F, and T allotments are made for specific periods and are stopped auto-
             matically by DFAS-DE at end of term if prior stop action has not been taken.
             57.2.3.2.2. Allotment transactions submitted to DFAS-DE with an effective date more than 1
             month in advance will reject. The exceptions are Class C and F allotments which may be input
             up to 4 months in advance.
             57.2.3.2.3. Class C allotments may require table 023 inquiry for verification of OPM CFC
             control numbers. To inquiry table 023 go to CICSJ3. Enter JWMM and follow screen instruc-
             tions to view table 023 for your ADSN. DFAS-DE/FJFBB must be contacted for additions or
             deletions to table 023. The “AC01” FID for the Combined Federal Campaign calls for the
             CFC Code. The 4 character position OPM CFC Control No., that appears on the top of the
             CFC Pledge form, is the number entered for the CFC Code. Do not enter the individual
             Agency No. in this field.
             57.2.3.2.4. Class F, Air Force Assistance Fund Charity Allotments, are set up to run from June
             through May. Therefore, start date is June and the allotments will systematically close out in
             May of each calendar year, unless an earlier stop date is input. If input with an April or May
             start date, they reject. Class F Allotments must remain in effect at least 3 months and the
             monthly amount must be $1 or more. The total amount pledged must be evenly divisible by
             the number of months of the allotment.
      57.2.4. Method of Payment. Allotments to personal savings or checking accounts are delivered via
      EFT. Other allotments are sent in a blanket check (if an allottee receives multiple allotments).
      DFAS-DE is currently working on system changes that will send all allotments, to include composite
      or blanket allotments, via EFT. These changes are expected to be completed during calendar year
      2000.
      57.2.5. Restriction on Multiple Allotments to Same Allottee. To minimize the cost to the Govern-
      ment in the administration of the allotment system, only one allotment may be sent to an allottee. If
      the member wishes to send multiple amounts to the same allottee, or the same financial institution, it
      is the member’s responsibility to work with the institution to transfer funds between the accounts at
      the institution. Only one allotment for the total may be established.
      57.2.6. Member's responsibilities. When allottee is a bank or other authorized financial organization,
      member makes arrangements with that firm to accept the deposit to member's account or to account of
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            925


   member's dependents before starting allotment. Member must obtain account number or policy num-
   ber. Seven-character company codes are assigned to every financial institution, insurance company,
   government agency, credit union, etc., by DFAS-DE. If company is not listed on Table 50, see Chap-
   ter 60 for instructions.
   57.2.7. Allotments to Philippine Addresses. All allotment checks destined for delivery to Philippine
   financial organizations or individual addresses are bulk mailed by DFAS-DE to DFAS-CL (Cleve-
   land). DFAS-CL delivers all checks to and registers each with the Philippine postal authorities.
   Members should be encouraged to have all allotments destined for the Philippines sent to a financial
   organization.
   57.2.8. Separated Members and Veterans Educational Assistance Program (VEAP) Allotments. For
   members who have a Class S VEAP allotment and are separating from the Air Force, the allotment
   will continue through the month of separation, if there is enough pay to cover the allotment.
   57.2.9. P7 Entry on MMPA. The P7 entry on the MMPA contains the gross amount of pay available
   to allot current month (CM) and next month (NM). To compute net amount available to allot CM,
   subtract the TOT-DEDN and TOT-ALOT in the P3 entry from the P7 entry. To compute net amount
   available to allot NM, subtract the DEDTN-NM and ALOT-NM in the P4 entry from the P7 entry.
   The net amount should be computed each time a member wants to start a new allotment or increase an
   existing allotment. If there is insufficient pay available to allot, the allotment start or change will
   reject ABU, "ALOTMTS EXCEED AUTHORIZED ALLOTTABLE INCOME."
   57.2.10. Allotments for Tricare Dental for Active Duty Air Force Members. Effective February 1,
   2001, United Concordia Companies, Inc. (UCCI) is the contracted provider for Tricare Dental and is
   using an “AI” allotment to collect from members. UCCI will process the allotments and handles all
   rejects or inquiries related to them. Instruct active duty members to call UCCI at 1-800-866-8499 for
   enrollment as well as answers to Tricare questions. The UCCI web site is www.ucci.com. This allot-
   ment does not count toward the limit of 6 discretionary allotments.

57.3. Source of Input. Servicing FSO verifies data on documents presented and processes appropriate
allotment transaction shown in Figure 57.4. through Figure 57.12.

57.4. Substantiating Documents:
   57.4.1. Source Documents. Use SF 1199A; DD Form 2558; FMS Form 2231, DD Form 2762; IRS
   Form 2159, Payroll Deduction Agreement, for Liquidation of Federal Tax through Payroll Deduction;
   Combined Federal Campaign pledge card; AF Form 1745; and AF Form 561 are the primary source
   documents used for allotments transactions. DD Form 2558, SF 1199A, FMS Form 2231, and DD
   Form 2762 serve as Military Pay Orders (MPO). DD Forms 2558 may be issued only to Air Force
   personnel, FSOs, Army Emergency Relief, Navy Relief, Navy Relief Society, Air Force Aid Society,
   and American Red Cross (see DoD Directive 7330.1). These documents require an original member’s
   signature. Documents cannot be mailed to finance by commercial companies. The only exceptions to
   this requirement are receipt of fax documents, as discussed in paragraph 2-4B of this manual, and
   privatized housing companies.
   57.4.2. Preparation and Distribution:
       57.4.2.1. Preparation. Member completes DD Form 2558 and signs after verifying data. Mem-
       bers wanting to increase, decrease, or stop an allotment amount mark the appropriate block in Sec-
926                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         tion I. There is no prohibition to placing FSO remarks by the Change Block to note the action
         indicators of the DJMS input transactions. The increase (07) and decrease (08) action indicators
         are valid for input transactions of applicable allotments.
         57.4.2.2. Allotment stops requested by the allottee do not require a DD Form 2558 signed by the
         member or allottee. The allottee’s request for a stop (letter, message, etc.,) or the return of funds
         to DFAS-DE serves as supporting documentation for the allotment stop.
         57.4.2.3. Distribution:
             57.4.2.3.1. DD Form 2558:
                 57.4.2.3.1.1. Original (to include addendum) - File with document transmittal listing
                 (DTL).
                 57.4.2.3.1.2. Copy 2 - Give to member.
                 57.4.2.3.1.3. Copy 3 - File with FSO copy of DTL.
             57.4.2.3.2. Combined Federal Campaign pledge card and AF Form 2561: File with DTL.
             57.4.2.3.3. TD 2159 (Figure 57.3.) as indicated on form.
             57.4.2.3.4. SF Form 1199A as indicated on form copies. (For detailed information on how to
             complete SF 1199A refer to paragraph 38.4.)
             57.4.2.3.5. AF Form 1745-Processing copy used for bond address changes only are filed with
             DTL.
      57.4.3. FMS Forms 2231, Faststart Direct Deposit Form, may be used for allotments if the member is
      sending the allotment to an existing account at a financial institution. This form can be found at http:/
      /www.fms.treas.gov. Ensure sections 1 through 5 are completed. It is suggested that a check/share-
      draft be attached by the member so the FSO can verify the correct routing indicator and account num-
      ber have been entered on the form.
      57.4.4. DD Form 2762, Direct Deposit Authorization Form, may be used for allotments if the mem-
      ber is sending the allotment to an existing account at a financial institution. This form can be found
      on the DFAS web site or at HTTP://WEB1.WHS.OSD.MIL/ICDHOME/DDEFORMS.HTM.
      Ensure sections 1, 2, and 3 of this form are completed. It is suggested that a check/share draft be
      attached by the member so the FSO can verify the correct routing indicator and account number have
      been entered on the form.

57.5. Allotment Flash Codes. When separation transactions E-3, E-4, or E-5 update member's MMPA
file, and allotments are in effect, the transactions produce flash codes 4 or 5 in the AZ area of the MMPA.
Flash code 4 (separations) is set the first update of the pay period in which the member is separating.
Flash code 5 (retirement) is set on the 10th of the month in which the member is retiring. Once the flash
code is set, all allotment transactions will reject.

57.6. Undeliverable Allotments. Allotments returned to DFAS-DE by the allottee, the United States
Postal Service or financial institution are:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               927


   57.6.1. Re-mailed to a correct address provided by the allottee or member as shown on the MMPA
   (see Chapter 7, paragraph 7.13. for an explanation of a clean-up of allotment addresses done on a
   quarterly basis); or
   57.6.2. Reissued to the correct allottee based on data provided by the allottee or member; or
   57.6.3. Canceled. DFAS-DE cancels the allotment payment, stops the allotment, and advises the ser-
   vicing FSO of the action taken. The FSO will notify the member within 1 working day and advise the
   member that the allotment:
       57.6.3.1. Was returned as undeliverable by the post office or unpostable by the financial institu-
       tion.
       57.6.3.2. Was refunded into the allotter's pay.
       57.6.3.3. Was stopped by DFAS-DE to preclude the return of subsequent allotments.
       57.6.3.4. Should be restarted with a correct allottee address prior to end of month cut-off (if so
       desired by the member).

57.7. Payment to Allottees. All allottees receiving more than 25 allotments of pay must receive payment
either via EFT or by blanket check. No individual checks will be sent. All new company codes estab-
lished will be established as blanket recipients if they are unable to receive EFT (not a financial institu-
tion). Advise members that if the potential allottee refuses to accept blanket checks or EFT, the allotment
will be stopped and other arrangements for payment are required. DFAS-DE is currently working on sys-
tem changes that will send all allotments, to include composite or blanket allotments, via EFT. These
changes are expected to be completed during calendar year 1998.

57.8. Use of Company Codes. If no existing company code can be found for an allottee and the allottee
is other than an individual, request a company code from DFAS-JMPBA/DE, using CMS.

57.9. Discretionary Allotments:
   57.9.1. Number. Each member is allowed up to 6 discretionary allotments for any purpose desired by
   the member (unless the use of the allotment violates laws in that state). In addition to the 6 discretion-
   ary allotments, eligible individuals may have 1 allotment to VEAP. Those members with more than 6
   discretionary allotments on the implementation date of this policy (April 1992) were grandfathered
   and allowed to continue the allotments already in existence. However, any change to any one of the
   existing allotments is construed as a stop and no new allotment may be started until the total number
   of discretionary allotments reaches six or below.
   57.9.2. Characteristics. Discretionary allotments make up those allotments formerly characterized as
   dependent support, savings, insurance, and home mortgage. While systematic edits prevent process-
   ing more than 2 savings allotments or 1 home mortgage allotment(s), members wishing to have addi-
   tional allotments to financial institutions or to pay mortgages may do so using the FID AD. If
   allotment is for insurance purposes, process as a class I allotment and if for rent or mortgage pay-
   ments, process as a Class H unless the member already has one class H in effect. In that case, process
   the second or subsequent allotments for that purpose as D allotments. All allotments destined for per-
   sonal checking or savings accounts at financial institutions should be processed as D allotments using
   SF 1199a.
928                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


57.10. Non-Discretionary Allotments:
      57.10.1. Number. There is no limit on the number of non-discretionary allotments a member may
      have. The system currently limits the total number of all allotments (discretionary plus non-discre-
      tionary) to 15.
      57.10.2. Characteristics. Non-discretionary allotments are those for the purchase of bonds, charitable
      contributions to Air Force Aid Society, Air Force Assistance Fund, Combined Federal Campaign,
      loan repayment for government debts or those insured by the government, or contributions to the Vet-
      erans Educational Assistance Program (VEAP). These are identified as class B, C, F, T or S (only to
      company code S9999963) allotments.

57.11. Retired Pay Allotments. Retirees are limited to allotments as outlined in the DoDFMR Vol 7B.
Review existing allotments during pre-retirement counseling and advise member that any existing allot-
ments which do not qualify for transfer to retired pay must be stopped.
      57.11.1. Qualifying allotments include:
         57.11.1.1. No more than six discretionary allotments. These include but are not limited to: Pay-
         ment of insurance premiums for various types of commercial insurance, voluntary payment to a
         dependent or relative, deposit to a financial institution, mutual fund company, investment firm,
         and payment of a car loan, mortgage or rent, or a loan to repay consumer credit.
         57.11.1.2. Non-discretionary allotments limited to the following: purchase of US Savings Bonds,
         voluntary liquidation of indebtedness to the US payment of delinquent federal, state or local
         income taxes, charitable contributions to Air Force assistance fund.
      57.11.2. In addition to allotments authorized above, any other allotments (except class C) in effect
      during last month of active service may be continued into retirement to assist personnel in transition
      from active to retired status.
      57.11.3. All allotments identified as D, H, I, S, and T allotments are paid from retired pay if there is
      enough retired pay to cover the amount of allotment deduction (I and S type allotments are converted
      by retired pay to D allotments). After separation, any change to the allotments must be submitted
      through Defense Retiree/Annuitant Pay System (DRAS).
         57.11.3.1. Any allotments to be carried forward to retired pay system must be started, stopped or
         changed before mid-month cutoff in the month of retirement.
         57.11.3.2. In the event changes to allotments are requested after this time, have the member com-
         plete an authorized allotment or bond form, as appropriate; suspense action until a DRAS record
         has been created (usually about the 10th of the first month of retirement); then input the transac-
         tions into DRAS.
      57.11.4. If the member attempts to start or change an allotment in DJMS and the transaction rejects
      before mid-month cutoff, follow procedures in 57.11.3.2. above to start or change the allotment in
      DRAS.
      57.11.5. After retirement, nonstandard forms or personal letters may be used to support an allotment
      request, change, or cancellation provided all needed information is furnished and the request has been
      signed by the retiree.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          929


     57.11.5.1. In extenuating circumstances when you are not able to process the allotment start or
     change directly into DRAS, mail the completed form or letter, along with a letter of explanation to
     DFAS-CL (code ROA), 1240 E 9th Street, Cleveland OH 44197-9800 and request their assistance
     completing the member’s request.
930                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 57.1. DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop or Change an Allotment.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                            931


Figure 57.2. SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form.
932                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 57.3. TD Form 2159, Payroll Deduction Agreement.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  933


Figure 57.4. Format to Change Allotment Check Mailing Address.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       AAA04 (ONE TRAILER RECORD) OR
                BAA04 (TWO TRAILER RECORDS)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      YEAR AND MONTH ALLOTMENT IS CHANGED


     24-27      CLASS(ES) OF ALLOTMENT(S) ON WHICH ADDRESS IS BEING CHANGED


       32       APPLICABLE CODE FOR NEW ADDRESS:
                1--DOMESTIC ADDRESS
                2--FOREIGN ADDRESS
                3—APO
                4—FPO


     50-57      FOR CHECK MAILING ADDRESS: FIRST 8 LETTERS OF ALLOTTEE’S
                NAME; FOR BOND MAILING ADDRESS: FIRST 8 LETTERS OF THE NAME
                OF THE PERSON RECEIVING THE BOND


      1-5       1AA04 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     21-49      NUMBER AND STREET, WITH TYPE OF STREET


     51-55      APO OR FPO NUMBER IF ADDRESS CODE IS 3 OR 4; ZEROS IF ADDRESS
                CODE IS 1 OR 2
934                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    1-5   2AA04 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


              IF ADDRESS IS IN US OR POSSESSIONS OR TERRITORIES:


      21-40   CITY TO WHICH ALLOTMENT CHECK OR BOND IS TO BE MAILED


      42-43   STATE POSTAL ABBREVIATION (SEE Attachment 15)


      45-49   ZIP CODE


              IF ADDRESS IS IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY:


      21-49   NAME OF FOREIGN COUNTRY, PROVINCE AND COUNTRY TO WHICH
              ALLOTMENT CHECK OR BOND IS TO BE MAILED


      51-52   COUNTRY CODE (SEE Attachment 16)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              935


Figure 57.5. Format to Start Class C or T Allotments or to Change Class T Allotments.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0AC01/0AT01/0AT04


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23       YEAR AND MONTH DEDUCTIONS SHOULD BEGIN


     24-29       MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       33        TYPE 6


     34-50       FOR AC ALLOTMENT
                 CP 34-45—BLANK
                 CP 46-49--CFC CODE
                 CP 50—BLANK
                 FOR AT ALLOTMENTS: ACCOUNT POLICY NUMBER:
                 COMPANY CODE IF ALLOTMENT IS TO AIR FORCE AID SOCIETY
                 ACCOUNT OR LOAN NUMBER FOR ALL OTHERS

       51        FOR AC ALLOTMENT—BLANK
                 FOR AT ALLOTMENT—P


     52-57       TOTAL AMOUNT OF PLEDGE, LOAN OR DEBT TO BE PAID BY THIS
                 ALLOTMENT


     58-64       COMPANY CODE
                 FIRST CHARACTER POSITION WILL BE R OR S IF FORMAT-ID IS AT
936                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 57.6. Format to Start, Change, Increase or Decrease Class D or H Allotments to Individu-
als/Mortgages.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       BAD01/BAD04 (TWO TRAILER RECORDS) OR
                 CAD01/CAD04 (THREE TRAILER RECORDS) OR
                 OAD07/OAD08 (NO TRAILER RECORDS) OR
                 BAH01/BAH04 (TWO TRAILER RECORDS) OR
                 CAH01/CAH04 (THREE TRAILER RECORDS) OR
                 OAH07/OAH08 (NO TRAILER RECORDS)


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23      YEAR AND MONTH ALLOTMENT DEDUCTION BEGINS


      24-29      MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       30        NAME ID CODE:
                 0 -- WHEN THERE IS NEITHER A CREDIT LINE OR IN-CARE-OF NAME
                 FOR CHECK MAILING TO BE USED
                 1 -- IF A CREDIT LINE FOR ALLOTMENT IS TO BE USED OR CHANGED
                 2 -- IF AN IN-CARE-OF NAME FOR CHECK MAILING ADDRESS IS TO BE
                 USED OR CHANGED


       31        FAMILY RELATIONSHIP:
                 IF FORMAT-ID IS AD -- R FOR GUARDIAN, IF APPLICABLE, OR BLANK
                 FOR OTHER DEPENDENTS;
                 IF FORMAT-ID IS AH – BLANK


       32        DOMESTIC/FOREIGN ADDRESS CODE:
                 1 -- DOMESTIC ADDRESS
                 2 -- FOREIGN ADDRESS
                 3 – APO
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                937


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             4 – FPO


     33      ALLOTMENT RECIPIENT TYPE CODE:
             1 -- INDIVIDUAL WITH DOMESTIC ADDRESS
             2 -- INDIVIDUAL WITH A FOREIGN ADDRESS OR AN APO OR FPO
             ADDRESS


    44-49    ZEROS


    50-57    IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 04, 07 OR 08 AND
             FORMAT-ID IS AD -- FIRST 8 LETTERS OF ALLOTTEE'S NAME
             FORMAT-ID IS AH -- FIRST 8 LETTERS OF MORTGAGEE'S NAME
             BLANK FOR ACTION INDICATOR 01


     1-5     1AD01/1AD04 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) OR
             1AH01/1AH04 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    21-47    ALLOTTEE’S FIRST NAME, MI, LAST NAME AND SUFFIX, IF
             APPLICABLE


    49-67    CREDIT LINE:
             ACCOUNT NUMBER, LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, IF CREDIT FOR
             PROCEEDS OF AN ALLOTMENT IS FOR OTHER THAN ALLOTTEE, OR
             CHECK MAILING ADDRESS INCLUDES AN IN-CARE-OF NAME
             OTHERWISE BLANK; IF FORMAT-ID IS AD AND FAMIL-RLTNSHP IS R --
             GUARDIAN, CREDIT LINE WILL NOT BE BLANK; IF ALOTE-NAME-ID = 0,
             BLANK


     1-5     2AD01/2AD04 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) OR
             2AH01/2AH04 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD)
938                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      21-49   NUMBER AND STREET WITH TYPE OF STREET OR BLANK IF NOT
              APPLICABLE


      51-55   APO OR FPO NUMBER IF ADRS-MAIL-DOM-FORN-CODE=3 OR 4
              ZEROS IF ADRS-MAIL-DOM-FORN-CODE=1 OR 2


       1-5    3AD01/3AD04 (THIRD TRAILER RECORD)
              3AH01/3AH04 (THIRD TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


              IF ADDRESS IS IN US OR POSSESSIONS OR TERRITORIES:


      21-40   CITY PORTION OF ADDRESS TO WHICH CHECK IS TO BE MAILED


      42-43   POSTAL ABBREVIATION FOR STATE PORTION OF ADDRESS (SEE
              Attachment 15)


      45-49   ZIP CODE


              IF ADDRESS IS IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY:


      21-49   NAME OF FOREIGN CITY, PROVINCE OR COUNTRY TO WHICH CHECK IS
              MAILED


      51-52   COUNTRY CODE (SEE Attachment 16)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        939


Figure 57.7. Format to Change Class D, H, I or S Allotments to Coded Companies.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0AH04/0AI04/0AS04 (NO TRAILER RECORDS ) OR
                AAD04 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YEAR AND MONTH ALLOTMENT DEDUCTION BEGINS


     24-29      MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       30       IF FORMAT-ID IS AD, CODE 1; ZEROS FOR ALL OTHER FORMAT-IDs


       31       FAMILY RELATIONSHIP:
                FORMAT-ID AD R--GUARDIAN, IF APPLICABLE; BLANK FOR ALL OTHER
                DEPENDENTS; BLANK FOR ALL OTHER FORMAT-IDs


       33       CODE 6


     34-50      ACCOUNT/POLICY NUMBER

       51       TYPE OF ACCOUNT:
                FOR FORMAT-ID AD P FOR PAYMENT WHEN FIRST CHARACTER OF
                COMPANY CODE IS S
                FOR FORMAT-ID AD OR AS C FOR CHECKING OR S FOR SAVINGS WHEN
                FIRST CHARACTER OF COMPANY CODE IS A, B, C, M OR NUMERIC
                FOR FORMAT-ID AH P FOR PAYMENT
                FOR FORMAT-ID AI H FOR HEALTH OR L FOR LIFE


     53-59      COMPANY CODE FROM TABLE 50


     61-67      COMPANY CODE AS SHOWN ON MMPA
940                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       1-5    1AD04 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      49-67   FIRST NAME, MI, LAST NAME OF PERSON TO WHOM ALLOTMENT
              SHOULD BE CREDITED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 941


Figure 57.8. Format to Stop Class C, D, F, H, I, L, S or T Allotments.


 CHARACTER                                       DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5        0AC02/0AD02/0AF02/0AH02/0AI02/0AS02 OR 0AT02


      6-14        SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23       YEAR AND MONTH IN WHICH LAST DEDUCTION SHOULD BE MADE


       33         ALLOTMENT RECIPIENT TYPE:
                  1--DOMESTIC INDIVIDUAL
                  2--OVERSEAS INDIVIDUAL
                  4--VA ALLOTMENT
                  6--CODED COMPANY AS REFLECTED ON MMPA


      50-57       FIRST 8 CHARACTERS OF ALLOTTEE’S FIRST, MI, LAST NAME,
                  INCLUDING SPACES AS SHOWN ON MMPA, IF ALLOTMENT BEING
                  STOPPED IS TO AN INDIVIDUAL


      58-64       COMPANY CODE IF ALLOTTEE IS CODED COMPANY
942                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 57.9. Format to Increase or Decrease Class D, H, I or S Allotments to Coded Companies.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0AD07/08 OR
                 0AH07/08 OR
                 0AI07/08 OR
                 0AS07/08


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23      YEAR AND MONTH DEDUCTION BEGINS


      24-29      MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       30        ZERO


       31        FAMILY RELATIONSHIP:
                 IF FORMAT-ID IS AD R--GUARDIAN OR BLANK FOR OTHER
                 DEPENDENTS
                 BLANK FOR ALL OTHER FORMAT-IDs

       33        6


      58-64      COMPANY CODE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                943


Figure 57.10. Format to Start Class F Allotment.


 CHARACTER                                         DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0AF01


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23       YEAR AND MONTH ALLOTMENT DEDUCTION SHOULD BEGIN


     24-29       MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT (CANNOT BE LESS THAN $1)


       33        TYPE 6


     44-49       TOTAL AMOUNT OF PLEDGE TO BE PAID BY THIS ALLOTMENT
                 (TOT-AMT-CLASS F MUST BE EQUAL OR GREATER THAN THREE TIMES
                 ALOTMT-AMT-PAY ALSO, TOT-AMT-ALOT MUST BE DIVISIBLE BY
                 ALOT-MT-AMT-PAY WITH NO REMAINDER)


     50-56       COMPANY CODE (MUST BE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING):
                 T598092 AFAS
                 T560696 AFEMWH
                 T595130 AF VILLAGE
                 T000270 LEMAY FOUND
944                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 57.11. Format to Start Class D, H, I or S Allotments to Coded Companies.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0AH01/0AI01/0AS01 (NO TRAILER RECORDS) OR
                 AAD01 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23      YEAR AND MONTH ALLOTMENT DEDUCTION BEGINS


      24-29      MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       30        IF FORMAT-ID AD 1; OTHERWISE, ZEROS


       31        FAMILY RELATIONSHIP:
                 IF FORMAT-ID IS AD--R FOR GUARDIAN, IF APPLICABLE, BLANK FOR
                 ALL OTHER FORMAT-Ids


       33        CODE 6


      34-50      ACCOUNT OR POLICY NUMBER

       51        TYPE OF ACCOUNT:
                 FOR FORMAT-ID AD P FOR PAYMENT WHEN FIRST CHARACTER OF
                 COMPANY CODE IS S
                 FOR FORMAT-ID AD OR AS C FOR CHECKING OR S FOR SAVINGS WHEN
                 FIRST CHARACTER OF COMPANY CODE IS A, B, C, M OR NUMERIC
                 FOR FORMAT-ID AH P FOR PAYMENT
                 FOR FORMAT-ID AI H FOR HEALTH OR L FOR LIFE


      53-59      COMPANY CODE FROM TABLE 50


       1-5       1AD01 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                         945


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    49-67    FIRST, MI AND LAST NAME OF PERSON TO WHOM ALLOTMENT
             SHOULD BE CREDITED
946                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 57.12. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO - Authorized Payments for Class X Allot-
ments.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0PD03/06 OR APD05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-25     YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                 M--STATE DEPARTMENT
                 R--ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE


      27-30     ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO. OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31        OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


      32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


      40-45      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


      46-48      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                 510—OFFICER
                 530—ENLISTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              947


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   53-54  RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE


     66      RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
948                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 58

                  ALLOTMENTS FOR THE PURCHASE OF US SAVINGS BONDS

58.1. Description. Air Force members on extended active duty may purchase US Savings Bonds through
payroll deduction using the allotment system. Bonds may be mailed to any address in the United States
and authorized foreign addresses or held in safekeeping.

58.2. Source of Input. The FSO starts, stops or makes changes to E & I bond allotments at the member’s
request using authorized forms. Effective 1 May 2003, Form SB-2378, Authorization for Purchase and
Requests for Change United States Series EE Savings Bonds or United States Series I (Inflation-Indexed)
Savings Bonds, is the authorized form to use (Figure 58.1.). All prior forms may be used until stock is
depleted. These forms include the DD Form 2559 (Figure 58.2.); Form SBD 2104, Authorization for
Purchase and Request for Change, Unites States EE Savings Bonds (Figure 58.3.); or effective 1 April
2000 through 30 April 2003, Form SB 2305, Authorization for Purchase and Request for Change, United
States Savings Bonds Series I (Figure 58.4.). Bond addresses may also be changed using AF Form 1745.
Bond allotments appear on the MMPA as FID AB.

58.3. Characteristics of Bond Allotments:
      58.3.1. Bond Series. There are two types of US Savings Bonds available through payroll deduction.
         58.3.1.1. US Savings Bonds (Series EE) has a purchase price one-half the maturity value of the
         Bond. The series EE Bonds available through payroll deduction are $100, $200, $500, or $1000.
         The Series EE Bond is identified by a “T” in the Bond-Series-Code.
         58.3.1.2. US Savings Bonds (Series I) are inflation-indexed Bonds. The Series I Bonds deal with
         par value securities. This means they are purchased at face value. Their special features are a
         fixed base interest rate and a supplemental rate adjusted for inflation. Treasury announces earn-
         ings rates for Series I and EE Bonds on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The purchase prices
         available through payroll deduction are $50, $75, $100, $200, and $500, and $1000. The $5000
         and $10,000 Series I Bonds are not available through payroll deduction. The series I is identified
         by and “I” in the Bond-Series-Code.
      58.3.2. Effective Date. Class B allotments are started for indefinite periods. Starts (AB01) are effec-
      tive on the first day of current processing month. If the transaction is received after mid-month cutoff
      and pay due at end of month (EOM) is not enough to pay the allotment, the transaction is rejected.
      Changes are effective the first day of the processing month in which received. Stops are effective the
      month contained in the input transaction. This date may be either the current processing month or the
      month prior. Amounts due toward purchase of an unissued bond will be refunded to the member.
      58.3.3. Names, SSN and Addresses on Bonds. Member may name another person as owner,
      co-owner, and/or beneficiary, but may not name a judiciary, private or public organization. It is not
      necessary that member's name be on the bond as owner, co-owner or beneficiary. When owner is
      other than member, that person's SSN must be placed in proper field of input transaction. When
      co-owner, or beneficiary, is other than member, that person's SSN should be placed in proper field of
      input transaction, if available; otherwise, place zeros in the field. Members should be encouraged to
      have bonds mailed to a permanent address, one not expected to change upon reassignment. If member
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          949


  is owner, he/she may elect to have bonds held in electronic safekeeping storage at DFAS. No address
  is required on the start or change transaction for members electing the safekeeping option.
     58.3.3.1. When bonds are held in safekeeping, member may request bond status and also obtain
     any or all bonds upon written request. Members may fax in their written requests for release of
     bonds held in safekeeping to DFAS-ATDT/DEDE at 303-676-7899 or 7644, DSN, 926. Fax must
     include, bond owner name, SSN, address they want the bonds mailed to, and a phone number in
     case there are questions, and the request must be signed. Written requests may also be mailed to:
     DFAS-ATDT/DEDE, 6760 E. Irvington Pl., Denver, CO 80279-8630.
     58.3.3.2. Bonds are not held in safekeeping for members who are retired or separated.
  58.3.4. Changes of Address. If a bond recipient changes the mailing address for a bond, the member
  completes either DD Form 2559 or SBD 2104 if only bond addresses are changing, or AF Form 1745
  if personal mailing address or LES address also changes. FSO uses FID AA04 to change the address
  of all classes of allotments of that individual. If the member has more than one bond mailed to an
  individual and only wishes to change the address for one bond, two transactions (AB02) and a start are
  required. Be sure the stop has processed before the start transaction is processed (see Chapter 7,
  paragraph 7.13. for an explanation of a clean-up of bond addresses done on a quarterly basis). Do not
  use an AA04 transaction for bonds held in safekeeping at DFAS since an AA04 changes only mailing
  address, not bond disposition code.
  58.3.5. Returned Bonds. Bonds returned to DFAS-DE as undeliverable are sent to the member's ser-
  vicing FSO for delivery to the member after a new address has been obtained to prevent the return of
  future bonds. The FSO must:
     58.3.5.1. Deliver bond to the member and obtain an address change. FSO should encourage the
     member to have bonds sent to a permanent mailing address not expected to change upon reassign-
     ment.
     58.3.5.2. Advise member that bonds owned by the member may be held in safekeeping at DFAS.
     Process necessary transactions to change bond disposition code if member so chooses.
     58.3.5.3. Forward the bond to the member's new servicing FSO if he or she is no longer serviced
     by your office. Annotate the listing to that effect and return it to DFAS-ATDT/DEDE, 6760 E.
     Irvington Place, Denver, CO 80279-3000.
  58.3.6. Inquiries:
     58.3.6.1. When reporting bonds not received, open a CMS (Case Management System) case in
     the DJMS AC allotment box, including the information required in Figure 58.4. Ensure the CMS
     case reflects that the bond was issued, but not received by owner, co-owner, or beneficiary, in
     order for PMJSAA to know which form is required. DFAS-PMJSAA/DE will provide the bond
     series number and attach a copy of the PD Form 3062 (Claim for United States Savings Bonds not
     Received) and return the case to the FSO. PMJSAA will annotate the case with action taken and
     mark it action complete, then finance closes the CMS case. Provide PD Form 3062 to member for
     completion; member must sign and mail to: Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, Pittsburg
     Branch, Customer Service Department, P.O. Box 299, Pittsburg, PA 15230-0299. Inquiries should
     be made by bond owner or authorized representative (FSO where the owner purchased the bond)
     by calling 1-800-245-2804 or on the web at savingsbonds@clev.frb.org .
950                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       58.3.6.2. When reporting bonds as lost, stolen, or destroyed after valid issue, open a CMS case in
       the DJMS AC allotment box, including the information in Figure 58.4. Ensure the CMS case
       reflects that the bond was lost, stolen, or destroyed, in order for PMJSAA to know which form is
       required. DFAS-PMJSAA/DE will provide the bond series number and attach a copy of the PD
       Form 1048 (Claim for Lost, Stolen or Destroyed United States Savings Bonds). The case will then
       be returned to the FSO after PMJSAA annotates the action taken and marks the case action com-
       plete. Finance provides this PD Form 1048 to member for completion of the document; member
       must sign and mail to: Bureau of Public Debt, 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
       Inquiries should be made by bond owner or authorized representative (FSO where the owner pur-
       chased the bond), by calling 1-304-480-6112.
       58.3.6.3. Advise the member that neither PD Form 3062 nor PD Form 1048 can be forwarded
       until at least 30 days after the issue date of the bond(s) to allow sufficient time for processing and
       delivery.
       58.3.6.4. If FSO is unable to deliver or forward bonds to members for reasons such as member
       deceased, separated or retired, return bond to DFAS-ATDT/DEDE, PO Box 173659, Denver, CO
       80217-0001. These bonds are identified to FSO on: Returned Bond Listing (PCN UH 99C574).
       Effective 1 Oct 2003, disregard the address on the listing (instruction #5) and use the above
       address.

58.4. Bonds for Retiring Members. Bond allotments in effect during the last month of active duty are
automatically continued after retirement unless specifically stopped by the member.

58.5. User Instructions for SBD-2104, SB-2305, and SB-2378 with DJMS Input Screens. I n s t r u c -
tions are identical with one exception. The bond denominations for the SB-2104 are limited to $100,
$200, $500, and $1000.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                            951


Table 58.1. User Instructions for SBD-2104, SB-2305, and SB-2378 with DJMS Input Screens.
SB-2378                                                            DJMS
Block     Field


  --      Option A = New Allotment                                 Format ID - AB01/Option A
          Option B = Increase Allotment                            Format ID - AB04/Option B, C, D
          Option C = Change Denomination                           Format ID - AB02/Option E/Stop
          Option D = Change Inscription                            Format ID - AB01/Option A/E/Start to Safekeeping
          Option E = Safekeeping                                   Format ID - AB02/AB01/Change to Start
          Option F = Other Action                                             Safekeeping
                                                                   Format ID - AB02/Stop


  #1      Branch of Service                                        No DJMS input
          Required field for all options (A thru F)
          For Information Only


  #2      Social Security Number                                   SSN
          Required for all options (A thru F)


  #3      Pay Grade                                                No DJMS input
          Optional field for all options (A thru F)


  #4      Name                                                     No DJMS input
          Required field for all options (A thru F)


  #5      Dept/Agency/Duty Station                                 No DJMS input
          Required field for all options (A thru F)


  #6      Duty Phone Number                                        No DJMS input
          Required field for all options (A thru F)
          For contacting the member if additional information is
          required to process the bond request


  --      Amount to be allotted each pay period;                   AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CRNT-MO: monthly
                                                                   deduction amount, zero-fill left
          Required field for all options (A thru F)
          This must be a “monthly” deduction amount
952                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


SB-2378                                                              DJMS
Block     Field
   --     Bond Denomination:                                         No DJMS input
          Required field for all options (A thru F):
          If face value is $50, I cost is $50
          If face value is $75, I cost is $75
          If face value is $100, EE cost is $50, I cost is $100
          If face value is $200, EE cost is $100, I cost is $200
          If face value is $500, EE cost is $250, I cost is $500
          If face value is $1000, EE cost is $500, I cost is $1000


   --     Deduction Plan:                                            MOS-PURCH-BOND-ALTMNT
          The member must decide the number of months in
          which to purchase the bond: 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 or 10. The
          deduction plan will be the number of deductions
          needed to purchase the bond.


  No   Bond Disposition Code:                                  Bond-Disposition
 Block
       This must be derived from blocks 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14
       and 15 for options A, D and E. Options B and C would
       not require a re-determination of the disposition code.
          A = Owner
          If Option A/New Allotment, or D/Change Inscription
          is checked, blocks 8, 9, and 10 are completed, and
          block 14 is blank then the bond is mailed to the owner.
          B = Co-owner/Beneficiary
          If Option A/New Allotment, or D/Change Inscription
          is checked and blocks 11 and 12 are completed and
          block 14 name matches block 12, the bond is mailed to
          the co-owner/beneficiary.
          C = Third Party
          If Option A/New Allotment, or D/Change Inscription,
          is checked and the names in block 8, 12, and 14 are all
          different, and block 14 name is a third party, the bond
          is mailed to the third party.
          D = Safekeeping
          If Option E/Safekeeping is checked and block 15
          indicates safekeeping, the bond is held in safekeeping
          by DFAS.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                              953


SB-2378                                                            DJMS
Block     Field
  No   Bond Ownership Designation Code:                       Bond-Ownership-DSGN:
 Block
       This would be derived from blocks 4, 8, 11, and 12 for Cannot be a 3 or 8 if bond disposition is B
       options A, D, and E. Options B and C would not
                                                              If bond-disposition is D, the bond-ownership-DSGN
       require a re-determination of the designation code.
                                                              must be 1, 2, or 3.
       1 - member is owner, non-member is co-owner
          2 - member is owner, non-member is beneficiary
          3 - member is owner, no co-owner or beneficiary
          4 - non-member is owner, member is co-owner
          5 - non-member is owner, member is beneficiary
          6 - non-member is owner, non-member is co-owner
          7 - non-member is owner, non-member is beneficiary
          8 - non-member is owner, no co-owner or beneficiary


  #7      Effective Date                                           YR-MO-ALOTMNT-EFF: year and month of
                                                                   allotment start/stop/change
          Required field for all options (A thru F)
          Year and month the options should take effect


  #8      Bond Owner’s Name                                        Bond-Owner-Name:
          Required field for all options (A thru F)                When bond ownership designator is 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8;
                                                                   otherwise, blank.
          This must be the bond owner’s name. If the military
          member is the owner, his/her name should be in this
          block.


  #9      Social Security Number                                   Bond-Owner-SSN:
          Required field for all options (A thru F)                When bond ownership designator is 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8;
                                                                   otherwise, zero-fill.
          This must be the bond owner’s SSN.
          If the military member is owner, his/her SSN should be
          in this block.
954                                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


SB-2378                                                              DJMS
Block     Field
 #10      Address                                                    ADRS-MAIL-DOM-FORN-CD;
          Required field for all options (A thru F)                  Foreign or Domestic address indicator
          Address should be on the bond form to help identify        1 = domestic address;
          which bond the action is being taken on, since member
                                                                     2 = foreign address;
          may have multiple bonds. If the address is a foreign
          address, provide foreign city, province and country to     3 = APO;
          which bond is to be mailed. If address is APO/FPO,
                                                                     4 = FPO;
          provide the APO/FPO number. If action is
          safekeeping, bond address field is left blank. If an       Space if action is for safekeeping.
          address is in block #14, use that address. The address
                                                                     Domestic: ADRS-MAIL-STREET;
          in this block would be for verification purposes only.
                                                                     ADRS-MAIL-DOM-CITY; ADRS-MAIL-STATE;
                                                                     ADRS-MAIL-ZIP
                                                                     Foreign: ADRS-MAIL-STREET;
                                                                     ADRS-MAIL-FORN;
                                                                     GOLD-FLOW-COUNTRY APO/FPO:
                                                                     ADRS-MAIL-STREET; APO-FPO-CODE


 #11      Co-Owner/Beneficiary:                                      No input field
          Required field for all options (A thru F)
          Only, if a co-owner or beneficiary will be designated;
          otherwise, leave blank.


 #12      Name:                                                      BOND-CO-OWNER/BEN-NAME:
          Required field for all options (A thru F)                  If bond ownership designation code is 1, 2, 6, or 7;
                                                                     otherwise leave blank.
          If co-owner or beneficiary block #11 is checked;
          otherwise leave blank.


 #13      Social Security Number:                                    BOND-CO-OWNER/BEN-SSAN:
          Required field for all options if co-owner or              If bond ownership designation code is 1, 2, 6, or 7;
          beneficiary block #11 is checked; otherwise leave          otherwise zero-fill.
          blank.


 #14      Mail Bond To:                                              See DJMS block #10
          If bond address is other than address in block #10, this
          is a required field for options A thru D.
          Not applicable for option E (safekeeping).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                       955


SB-2378                                                              DJMS
Block     Field
 #15      Other Action/Safekeeping:                                  Bond-Disposition Code must be D - hold in
                                                                     safekeeping
          Required field for option E only.
                                                               Bond-Ownership-DSGN code must be 1, 2, or 3 for
          Member should designate action requested. This block
                                                               safekeeping
          should also be used to request a "stop" action.
          If option E is checked and this field is left blank, the
          bond will be sent to DFAS-CL for safekeeping.
          Member must write - in 'stop' if that is what he/she is
          requesting.
956                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 58.1. Savings Bonds or United States Series I (Inflation-Indexed) Savings Bonds.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           957


Figure 58.2. SBD Form 2104, United States Series EE Savings Bonds.
958                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 58.3. Form SB-2305, United States Series I Savings Bonds.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         959


Figure 58.4. CMS Case to Request PD Form 3062, Claim for Relief on Account of Loss, Theft or
Destruction of United States Savings Bonds After Valid Issue but Prior to Receipt by Owner,
Co-owner or Beneficiary.


INFORMATION FOR CMS CASE, DJMS AC ALLOTMENT BOX:


1.     TYPE OF CASE - REQUEST FOR BOND SERIES NUMBER
2.     MEMBER'S NAME
3.     MEMBER’S SSN
4.     BOND DENOMINATION
5.     BOND OWNER, CO-OWNER, AND/OR BENEFICIARY
6.     ADDRESS TO WHICH BOND WAS ORIGINALLY MAILED (IF KNOWN)
7.     ISSUE DATE(S) OF MISSING BOND(S) (SEE NOTE BELOW)
8.     BOND DISPOSITION CODE (IF KNOWN)
9.     BOND SERIES (EE, I, H, ETC)




NOTE: Issue date of a bond is the month in which at least 50% of the purchase price is deducted. Exam-
ples: $200 bond purchased over 5 months, starting January 2004. Issue date will be March 2004 since, as
of the end of March 2004, $60 (or over 50% of the $100 purchase price) will have been deducted. $100
bond purchased over 2 months starting March 2004. Issue date will be March 2004 since, as of the end of
March 2004, $25 (or 50% of the purchase price of $50) will have been deducted.
960                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 58.5. Format to Change Bond Mailing Address.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      AAA04 (ONE TRAILER RECORD) OR
                BAA04 (TWO TRAILER RECORDS)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23     YEAR AND MONTH ALLOTMENT IS CHANGED


      24-26     CLASS(ES) OF ALLOTMENT(S) ON WHICH ADDRESS IS BEING CHANGED


       32       APPLICABLE CODE FOR NEW ADDRESS:
                1--DOMESTIC ADDRESS
                2--FOREIGN ADDRESS
                3—APO
                4—FPO


      50-57     FOR CHECK MAILING ADDRESS: FIRST 8 LETTERS OF ALLOTTEE’S
                NAME; FOR BOND MAILING ADDRESS: FIRST 8 LETTERS OF THE NAME
                OF THE PERSON RECEIVING THE BOND


       1-5      1AA04 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      21-49     NUMBER AND STREET, WITH TYPE OF STREET


      51-55     APO OR FPO NUMBER IF ADDRESS CODE IS 3 OR 4; ZEROS IF ADDRESS
                CODE IS 1 OR 2
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            961


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     1-5     2AA04 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


             IF ADDRESS IS IN US OR POSSESSIONS OR TERRITORIES:


    21-40    CITY TO WHICH ALLOTMENT CHECK OR BOND IS TO BE MAILED


    42-43    STATE POSTAL ABBREVIATION (SEE Attachment 15)


    45-49    ZIP CODE


             IF ADDRESS IS IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY:


    21-49    NAME OF FOREIGN COUNTRY, PROVINCE AND COUNTRY TO WHICH
             ALLOTMENT CHECK OR BOND IS TO BE MAILED


    51-52    COUNTRY CODE (SEE Attachment 16)
962                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 58.6. Format to Start or Change a Bond Allotment.


 CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5   0AB01/04 (NO TRAILER RECORDS) OR
           BAB01/04 (TWO TRAILER RECORDS) OR
           CAB01/04 (THREE TRAILER RECORDS) OR
           DAB01/04 (FOUR TRAILER RECORDS) OR
           EAB01/04 (FIVE TRAILER RECORDS)


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23      YEAR AND MONTH ALLOTMENT DEDUCTIONS SHOULD START


       24        IF ACTION INDICATOR 01: BOND SERIES CODE T FOR EE BONDS, I FOR I
                 BONDS. IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: BOND SERIES CODE FROM MMPA.


      25-30      IF ACTION INDICATOR 01: MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT, ZERO-FILL
                 LEFT
                 IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT ON MMPA


      31-32      IF ACTION INDICATOR 01: NUMBER OF DEDUCTIONS NEEDED TO
                 PURCHASE A BOND: MUST 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 OR 10
                 IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: MOS-PURCH AS SHOWN ON MMPA


       33        BOND OWNERSHIP DISPOSITION CODE:
                 IF ACTION INDICATOR 01:
                 A -- OWNER
                 B -- CO-OWNER OR BENEFICIARY
                 C -- THIRD PARTY
                 D -- HOLD AT DFAS FOR SAFE-KEEPING WHEN MEMBER IS OWNER;
                 IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: SAME DISPOSITION CODE AS ON MMPA


       34        BOND OWNERSHIP DESIGNATION CODE:
                 IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 01:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  963


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             1 -- MEMBER IS OWNER, NON-MEMBER IS CO-OWNER
             2 -- MEMBER IS OWNER, NON-MEMBER IS BENEFICIARY
             3 -- MEMBER IS OWNER, NO CO-OWNER OR BENEFICIARY
             4 -- NON-MEMBER IS OWNER, MEMBER IS CO-OWNER
             5 -- NON-MEMBER IS OWNER, MEMBER IS BENEFICIARY
             6 -- NON-MEMBER IS OWNER, NON-MEMBER IS CO-OWNER
             7 -- NON-MEMBER IS OWNER, NON-MEMBER IS BENEFICIARY
             8 -- NON-MEMBER IS OWNER, NO CO-OWNER OR BENEFICIARY;
             IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 04: SAME DESIGNATION CODE AS ON MMPA


     35      FOREIGN OR DOMESTIC ADDRESS INDICATOR:
             IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 01:
              -- SPACE FILLED IF DISPOSITION CODE = D (SAFEKEEPING)
             1 -- DOMESTIC ADDRESS
             2 -- FOREIGN ADDRESS
             3 -- APO
             4 -- FPO
             IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 04: SAME INDICATOR AS ON MMPA


    36-43    IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 04: FIRST 8 LETTERS OF BOND OWNER'S
             NAME AS SHOWN ON MMPA IF BOND DESIGNATOR IS OTHER THAN 1, 2
             OR 3; BLANK IF BOND DESIGNATOR IS 1, 2 OR 3 ON MMPA OR IF ACTION
             INDICATOR 01

    44-51    IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: FIRST 8 LETTERS OF CO-OWNER'S OR
             BENEFICIARY'S NAME IF BOND DESIGNATOR IS OTHER THAN 3 OR 8;
             BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR 01


     52      IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: BOND SERIES CODE T FOR EE BONDS OR I
             FOR I BONDS


    53-58    IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: NEW MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT,
             ZERO-FILL LEFT; BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR 01
964                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   59-60  IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: NEW NUMBER OF DEDUCTIONS NEEDED TO
          PURCHASE A BOND; MUST BE 01, 02, 04, 05, 08 OR 10; BLANK IF ACTION
          INDICATOR 01


       61     IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: APPLICABLE CODE TO IDENTIFY TO WHOM
              THE BOND IS TO BE MAILED; SEE CHARACTER POSITION 31 FOR
              DESCRIPTION; BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR 01


       62     IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: APPLICABLE CODE FOR OWNERSHIP
              DESIGNATOR FOR NEW BOND; SEE CHARACTER POSITION 32 FOR
              DESCRIPTION; BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR 01


       63     IF ACTION INDICATOR 04: APPLICABLE CODE FOR DOMESTIC/FOREIGN
              ADDRESS; SEE CHARACTER POSITION 33 FOR DESCRIPTION; BLANK IF
              ACTION INDICATOR 01


       1-5    1AB01/04 (FIRST TRAILER CARD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      21-47   BOND OWNERSHIP: BOND OWNER’S NAME WHEN BOND OWNERSHIP
              DESIGNATOR IS 4, 5, 6, 7 OR 8 OTHERWISE, BLANK.

      48-56   BOND OWNER’S SSN WHEN BOND OWNERSHIP DESIGNATOR IS 4, 5, 6, 7
              OR 8; OTHERWISE, BLANK


       1-5    2AB01/04 (SECOND TRAILER CARD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      21-47   CO-OWNER’S OR BENEFICIARY’S NAME IF OWNERSHIP DESIGNATOR IS
              1, 2, 6 OR 7; OTHERWISE, BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     965


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    48-56    CO-OWNER’S OR BENEFICIARY’S SSAN IF OWNERSHIP DESIGNATOR IS
             1, 2, 6 OR 7; OTHERWISE, ZERO-FILL




     1-5     3AB01/04 (THIRD TRAILER CARD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    21-49    MAILING ADDRESS: NUMBER AND STREET WITH STREET TYPE BOX
             NUMBER, RURAL ROUTE OR MILITARY UNIT; BLANK IF NOT
             APPLICABLE


    51-55    APO/FPO NUMBER IF DOMESTIC/FOREIGN CODE IS 3 OR 4; ZEROS IF
             DOMESTIC/FOREIGN CODE IS 1 OR 2


     1-5     4AB01/04 (FOURTH TRAILER CARD)


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


             IF ADDRESS IS IN US OR ITS TERRITORIES OR POSSESSIONS, CP 21-67
             WILL BE COMPLETED AS FOLLOWS:


    21-40    CITY PORTION OF ADDRESS TO WHICH BOND IS TO BE MAILED
966                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


      42-43   POSTAL ABBREVIATION FOR STATE PORTION OF ADDRESS


      45-49   ZIP CODE APPLICABLE TO BOND MAILING ADDRESS


              IF ADDRESS IS IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY, CP 21-67 WILL BE COMPLETED
              AS FOLLOWS:


      21-49   NAME OF FOREIGN CITY, PROVINCE AND COUNTRY TO WHICH BOND IS
              TO BE MAILED


      51-52   TWO-ALPHA COUNTRY CODE; SEE Attachment 16


       1-5    5AB01/04 (FIFTH TRAILER CARD)


      6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      21-47   FIRST, MI, LAST NAME OF PERSON TO WHOM BOND IS TO BE MAILED IF
              OTHER THAN OWNER, CO-OWNER OR BENEFICIARY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                        967


Figure 58.7. Format to Stop a Bond Allotment.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0AB02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23       YEAR AND MONTH LAST DEDUCTION IS TO BE MADE


       24        BOND SERIES CODE: APPLICABLE CODE FROM MMPA.


     25-30       MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT (ZERO FILL LEFT)


     31-32       NUMBER OF DEDUCTIONS NEEDED TO PURCHASE BOND


       33        BOND DISPOSITION: APPLICABLE CODE FROM MMPA


       34        BOND OWNERSHIP DESIGNATOR: APPLICABLE CODE FROM MMPA


     36-43       FIRST 8 LETTERS OF BOND OWNER’S NAME IF OWNERSHIP
                 DESIGNATOR IS 4, 5, 6, 7 OR 8; BLANK IF OWNERSHIP DESIGNATOR IS 1,
                 2 OR 3


     42-49       FIRST 8 LETTERS OF CO-OWNER’S NAME IF OWNERSHIP DESIGNATOR
                 IS 1, 4 OR 6; OTHERWISE, BLANK


      OR


     44-51       FIRST 8 LETTERS OF BENEFICIARY’S NAME IF OWNERSHIP
                 DESIGNATOR IS 2, 5 OR 7; OTHERWISE, BLANK
968                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                Chapter 59

                  ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME (AFRH) DEDUCTION

59.1. Description. Deductions for Armed Forces Retirement Home (AFRH) apply to airmen and warrant
officers serving in the Regular Air Force. See the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, for amount of deduction and
requirements.

59.2. Deduction:
      59.2.1. Establishment. AFRH is driven by event processing only. The deduction is established by
      accession processing for regular Air Force members (service component of R). The deduction starts
      automatically effective the month of the date of entry on active duty. No other input transaction is
      required.
      59.2.2. Amount Changes. Secretaries of the Army and Air Force may change the deduction amount
      if recommended by the Board of Commissioners of the home. The current monthly deduction amount
      is $.50. DFAS-DE makes the change and advises FSOs when a mass-rate change is directed.
      59.2.3. Discontinuance. Deductions are suspended when the service member is in a non-pay status in
      excess of thirty days or when in excess leave status. The deduction is stopped only upon separation
      from active duty. No other input transaction is required.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            969


                                              Chapter 60

                            COMPANY CODES AND OTHER TABLES

60.1. Description. Computer tables are used by DJMS during daily processing to extract from and vali-
date data against.
   60.1.1. Tables are either pay affecting or used for validation and reporting.
   60.1.2. Some tables are available on-line through DJMS with view, print and update capabilities. See
   paragraph 60.2. below for access instructions. Figure 60.1. is a list of all DJMS tables that indicates
   which ones are available on-line and the ones that aren’t.
   60.1.3. All DJMS tables are maintained by central site (DFAS-DE.)

60.2. On-line Table Access. The following are instructions to view and print DJMS on-line tables.
   60.2.1. Sign on to CICSJ3.
   60.2.2. Type JWMM. <ENTER>
   60.2.3. Type ‘1’ in OPTION field, the applicable table number you want to view in TABLE NUM-
   BER field and ‘X’ in PRODUCTION field. <ENTER>
   60.2.4. Follow the prompts to view the information contained in the table you have selected for view-
   ing.
   60.2.5. If table number is unknown, press <ENTER> after entering ‘1’ in OPTION field. A list of all
   available tables will be provided. Follow prompts for selection and viewing of a particular table.
   60.2.6. Print capability exists for all on-line tables. Enter ‘2’ in OPTION field, and press <ENTER>,
   for a list of tables available for printing. Contact DFAS-DE/FJF for a print of any table not listed.

60.3. Company Code Table - Table 50. Table 50 is a file of the names, addresses, and company codes
for banks, credit unions, insurance companies, and other miscellaneous companies. Table 50 is available
for viewing via an on-line inquiry. Miscellaneous companies include: mortgage companies and other
miscellaneous financial organizations that can receive allotments. Banks, savings banks, and savings and
loan associations, or federal or state chartered credit unions are the only financial organizations autho-
rized to receive a member's paycheck (FID LH).
   60.3.1. Missing Companies. If no company code is listed on Table 50 for a particular company,
   please use one of the following options for requests:
       60.3.1.1. Send a message to CDE-MILPAY.TABLES@DFAS.MIL (please note that
       ECCS.MAIL/EMC2/TAO is no longer available); or
       60.3.1.2. Open a CMS case under the DFAS AC/RC Company Code Box: or
       60.3.1.3. Fax a request to commercial 303-676-7974 or DSN 926-7974 Attn: DFAS-JMPB/DE.
   60.3.2. Company codes may not be assigned to branch banks or multiple addresses for the same
   insurance company. All monies disbursed by DFAS-DE must be sent to the parent bank or home of
   the company.
970                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      60.3.3. Table 50 Codes. There are two codes that identify the method of transfer of funds for pay-
      checks and allotments. They are:
         60.3.3.1. Paycheck Type:


                      CODE                           EXPLANATION
                       A          Composite check to financial organization
                       D          Individual check to financial organization
                       H          Data transferred through electronic fund transfer
                                  system (EFTS)

         60.3.3.2. Allotment Recipient Type:


                      CODE                        EXPLANATION
                        3        Company receives a blanket check and detail listing
                        6        Company receives individual checks
                        7        Company receives allotment payments via EFTS
                        9        Company receives a blanket check and detail on a
                                 magnetic tape

      60.3.4. Net Pay and/or Allotment Class and Company Code Prefix. Financial organizations may have
      more than one company code. For example, Bank of USA, New York, NY, may receive net pay, as
      well as allotments and, therefore, has two company codes on Table 50, 1234567 and S456789.
      1234567 has a paycheck type/allotment recipient type of H7 indicating it is a bank on EFTS while
      S456789 has an allotment recipient type of 6 indicating it is a bank receiving individual checks. Since
      only net pay and allotments may be sent via EFTS, 1234567 is used for these purposes, while
      S456789 is used for T allotments to Bank of USA. Use general guidelines in Table 60.1.
      60.3.5. Failure to use appropriate company codes results in delayed posting to members' accounts at
      financial organizations, etc., and may cause the member to pay additional interest, late charges, penal-
      ties, or a combination of these, unnecessarily.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       971


Figure 60.1. DJMS-AC Tables.
                                    DJMS-AC TABLES


                                                               ON-LINE
NUMBER                             TITLE                       VIEWING TRAN-ID
  001      Basic Pay – Regular                                    Yes   JWMM
  002      Special Compensation Positions                         Yes   JWMM
  003      Incentive Pay - Flying Crew Members                    Yes   JWMM
  004      Incentive Pay – Other                                  Yes   JWMM
  005      Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS)                  Yes   JWMM
  006      Foreign Duty Pay (FDP)                                 Yes   JWMM
  007      Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ) W/O Dependents      Yes   JWMM
  008      BAQ W/Dependents                                       Yes   JWMM
  009      Variable Special Pay (VSP) for Dentists                Yes   JWMM
  010      Personal Money Allowance (PMA)                         Yes   JWMM
  011      Special Duty Assignment Pay (SDAP)                     Yes   JWMM
  012      Hostile Fire Pay (HFP)                                 Yes   JWMM
  013      Diving Duty Pay (DDP)                                  Yes   JWMM
  014      Flight Pay Rated Officers                              Yes   JWMM
  015      Family Separation Allowance (FSA)                      Yes   JWMM
  016      Submarine Duty Pay Rates                               Yes   JWMM
  017      BAS - Grade E1 < Than 4 Months                         Yes   JWMM
  018      VSP for Physicians                                     Yes   JWMM
  019      BAQ (Rebate)                                           Yes   JWMM
  020      MPF AUTODIN Routing Indicator                          Yes   JWMM
  021      DSSN/Agency Code Other Government Agencies             Yes   JWMM
  022      ADSN/DSSN Validation Data                              No
  023      ADSN/CFC/Company Code Validation                       Yes   JWMM
  024      Even Dollar ADSN(s)                                    No
  025      ADSN Address Data                                      Yes   JWMM
  026      Guard/Reserve PAS Codes                                Yes   JWMM
  027      State Taxing Authority                                 Yes   JWMM
   028     BAQ - Child Support                                   Yes    JWMM
   029     Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)                   Yes    JWMM
   030     Initial Military Clothing Rate                        Yes    JWMM
   031     Initial Civilian Clothing Allowance                   Yes    JWMM
972                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                            ON-LINE
NUMBER                                 TITLE                VIEWING TRAN-ID
  032       Clothing Replacement Allowance (CRA)               Yes   JWMM
  033       Uniform & Equipment Allowance (UEA) Rate           Yes   JWMM
  034       Extra Clothing Allowance Rate                      Yes   JWMM
  035       Special Continuing Civilian Clothing               Yes   JWMM
  036       Regular Field Duty Officers BAS Rates              Yes   JWMM
  037       Standard Military Rates                            Yes   JWMM
  038       Foreign Language Proficiency Pay (FLPP)            Yes   JWMM
  039       Army PACDIN (Active & Reserve)                     Yes   JWMM
  040       Basic Information Transfer System (BITS)           No
  041       Proficiency Pay Types                              Yes   JWMM
  042       Separation Program Designators (SPD)               Yes   JWMM
  043       HALO Rates                                         Yes   JWMM
  044       APO/FPO Address (East & West Coast)                Yes   JWMM
  045       Summary Account Categories                         Yes   JWMM
  046       Officer Field Duty Rates – Special                 Yes   JWMM
  047       Government Laundry & Dry Clean (GLDC)              No
  048       Board Certified Pay (BCP) – Physicians             Yes   JWMM
  049       BCP – Dentists                                     Yes   JWMM
  050       Company Codes (Banks & Institutions)               Yes    MSO
  051       Veterinarian/Optometry Pay                         Yes   JWMM
  052       Federal Reserve Transit Routing Symbols            Yes   JWMM
  053       State and Territory Codes                          Yes   JWMM
  054       HFP/IDP Countries                                  Yes   JWMM
  055       Countries and Non-CONUS Status                     No
  056       JTLA Rates                                         No
  057       Blocked Countries                                  No
  058       VHA Adjustment Rates                               Yes   JWMM
  059       VHA Rates                                          Yes   JWMM
  060       SUME Rates                                         Yes   JWMM
  061       ZIP Code/MHA Index                                 Yes   JWMM
      062   Navy UIC Codes                                     Yes    JWMM
      063   Currency Exchange                                  Yes     MSO
      064   MIHA Rates                                         Yes     MSO
      065   OHA/COLA Rates                                     Yes     MSO
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         973


                                                                 ON-LINE
NUMBER                             TITLE                         VIEWING TRAN-ID
  066    Navy Reject Reassignment                                   Yes   JWMM
  067    Basic Military Compensation (BMC) W/O Dependents           Yes   JWMM
  068    Utility Allowance Percentages                              Yes   JWMM
  069    Average Spendable Income                                   Yes   JWMM
  070    Air Force Retirement Home (AFRH) Monthly Deduction         Yes   JWMM
         Rate
   071   Serviceman Group Life Insurance (SGLI)                    Yes    JWMM
   072   FICA/Medicare Max Deduction Rate                          Yes    JWMM
   073   Federal Income Tax Withholding (FITW) Deduction Rates     Yes    JWMM
   074   FITW Wages Combat Zone Tax Exclusion                      Yes    JWMM
   075   Reserve Drill Authorizations                              Yes    JWMM
   076   Guard Drill Authorizations                                Yes    JWMM
   077   Dependent Dental Care                                     Yes    JWMM
   078   Retired Pay Accrual Factors                               Yes    JWMM
   079   Command at Sea Responsibility Pay                         Yes    JWMM
   080   Major Command Code Data                                   Yes    JWMM
   083   Overseas Extension Pay                                    Yes    JWMM
   085   Net Pay Auth Tolerance                                    Yes    JWMM
   086   Career Sea Duty Pay – Enlisted                            Yes    JWMM
   087   Career Sea Duty Pay – Officer                             Yes    JWMM
   088   Career Sea Duty Pay – Warrants                            Yes    JWMM
   089   Career Sea Duty Pay – Premium                             Yes    JWMM
   090   Error Code Bypass                                         No
   091   Error Codes Selection/Routing                             No
   092   FORMAT ID Selection/Routing                               No
   093   Error Code & FORMAT ID Select/Route                       No
   094   Advance EIC Payment                                       Yes    JWMM
   095   Stipend Rates for Health Professional                     Yes    JWMM
   096   ROTC Subsistence Rates                                    Yes    JWMM
   097   BCP for Non-Physicians                                    Yes    JWMM
   098   Diplomat Pay                                              Yes    JWMM
   099   Miscellaneous Indebtedness Type Codes                     Yes    JWMM
   100   Cadet Fixed Allowance Rates                               Yes    JWMM
   101   Cadet Basic Pay                                           Yes    JWMM
974                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                  ON-LINE
NUMBER                            TITLE           VIEWING TRAN-ID
  102    ACE Deduction Table                         Yes   JWMM
  103    Service Academy Pay Schedule                Yes   JWMM
  104    Daily EFT Tolerances                        Yes   JWMM
  105    Cadet BAS                                   Yes   JWMM
  106    Cadet Personal Service Deduction            Yes   JWMM
  110    Nuclear Officer Accession Bonus             Yes   JWMM
  111    Nuclear Career Accession Bonus              Yes   JWMM
  112    Nuclear Officer Continuation Pay            Yes   JWMM
  113    Nuclear Annual Incentive Rates              Yes   JWMM
  125    Accountable ADSN Table                      Yes   JWMM
  150    Transit Routing Number Validation           No
  154    CZTE Countries                              Yes   JWMM
  155    Countries of the World                      Yes   JWMM
  160    CONUS COLA Dependency Rates                 Yes   JWMM
  161    CONUS COLA ZIP Codes                        Yes   JWMM
  164    MIHA Security Codes                         No
  165    OHA Rates                                   No
  167    BMC With Dependents                         Yes   JWMM
  250    FEDLINE Transit Routing Data                Yes   JWMM
  265    Unique COLA Rates                           No
  365    Regular COLA Rates                          No
  400    1-Day Muster Duty Rate                      Yes   JWMM
  401    Salary Offset                               Yes   JWMM
  875    IRS Tax Levy Rates                          Yes   JWMM
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             975


Table 60.1. Company Guidelines for Company Codes.
ALLOT CLASS       1ST POSITION CO-CODE          ALLOTMENT RECPT TYPE
D to court        S                             3, 6, or 9
D (other)         A, C, M or numeric            3, 6, 7, or 9
                  N                             3, 6, or 9
C or F            T                             3, 6, or 9
T or H            R or S                        3, 6, or 9
Net Pay           A, C, M, or numeric           3, 6, 7, or 9
976                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              Chapter 61

             TRICARE - FAMILY MEMBER DENTAL PLAN (TRICARE - FMDP)

61.1. Description. The Family Member Dental Plan (FMDP) is a Congressionally mandated program
established to provide dental insurance for eligible dependents of active duty members of the uniformed
services. Procedures covering deductions and eligibility criteria are in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, Chapter
54.

61.2. Source of Input: Effective February 1, 2001, United Concordia Companies, Inc. (UCCI) is the
contracted provider for Tricare Dental. UCCI processes all collections via AI allotment. There is no FSO
input. UCCI handles all rejects or inquiries related to the program. Instruct active Air Force military
members to call UCCI at 1-800-866-8499 with any questions or for new enrollments. UCCI web site is
www.ucci.com.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           977


                                              Chapter 62

                              SAVINGS DEPOSIT PROGRAM (SDP)

62.1. Description. Depositors must meet eligibility criteria contained in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter
51. Members entitled to participate in the program may deposit not more than their "unalloted current pay
and allowances" (as defined in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 51) in amounts of $5 or more, in multiples
of $5, with any disbursing officer or other designated officer of a uniformed service.

62.2. Substantiating Documents. For cash or check collections for Air Force members only, a DD Form
1131, Cash Collection Voucher, is prepared. For a collection via allotment, complete a DD Form 2558,
Authorization to Start, Stop or Change an Allotment.

62.3. Responsibilities. FSO processes SDP collections into DJMS. The collection information is passed
by DFAS-DE to DFAS-Cleveland Center (DFAS-CL). DFAS-CL maintains SDP records for members of
all the services, calculates interest, and makes refund and interest payments to the members.

62.4. FSO Actions. Process collections as follows:
   62.4.1. Collections From Air Force Members Paid on the Defense Joint Military System (DJMS) -
   Active Component. Prepare a DD Form 1131, citing 57*3500 510 or 530, 525725 and assign a CP
   voucher number. Indicate "SDP" in the description column and the date of deposit in the "Date
   Received Subject to Collection" block and in the "Date Received" column of the DD Form 1131. If
   member pays by check the check will be made payable to the DAO.
       62.4.1.1. Mail a legible copy of the DD 1131 to DFAS-PMJSAA/DE or fax to (303) 676-6486,
       DSN 926-6486.
       62.4.1.2. Input a C2 and C9 into DJMS with the date of deposit in voucher date field. For exam-
       ple: Agent office collects SDP funds on 23 March 1991. The DD 1131 is vouchered by the parent
       on 3 April 1991. The C2 and C9 transaction must show 23 March 1991.
       62.4.1.3. Ensure that a DS01 transaction is input into DJMS before the C2, using company code
       D386751, indebtedness type V. For the DS transaction, the amount of specific indebtedness must
       equal the C2 amount and the amount of monthly deduction must be less than the collection
       amount. For example, C2 amount is $100, the DS must reflect amount of specific debt of $100
       and a monthly deduction of $50 (or any amount less than $100). This allows the C2 to close the
       DS entry. Failure to follow these procedures will result in the DS closing immediately against
       available net pay and the C2 will reject due to no open DS entry.
       62.4.1.4. To process allotments, have member complete a DD Form 2558. In block 10 of the DD
       Form 2558, check "Other" and specify "SDP" in the remarks block. For AF members, input as a
       type "S" using company code 9999955.
   62.4.2. Processing Deposits Made By Members of Other Services. If cash/check collections are
   accepted for members of other services:
       62.4.2.1. Prepare a DD Form 1131 citing one of the following accounting classifications:
978                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                ARMY            21X6010.0000 19 S12120
                NAVY            17X6025 10001 3C 000XXXXXXXXX
                               (XXXXXXXXX equals member’s SSN)
                MARINE CORPS          17X6026 005 3C 000(SSN)
                COAST GUARD           69X6014


         62.4.2.2. Send a copy of the DD Form 1131 to the appropriate Service Centers at:


                ARMY:                 Defense Finance & Accounting Service -
                                      Indianapolis Center
                                      ATTN: DFAS-I-YA
                                      Indianapolis, IN 46149-1410
                NAVY:                 Defense Finance & Accounting Service -
                                      Cleveland Center
                                      Cleveland, OH 44199-2055
                MARINE CORPS:         Defense Finance & Accounting Service -
                                      Kansas City Center
                                      DAF/DM
                                      1500 E. 95th Street
                                      Kansas City, MO 64197-0001
         62.4.2.3. Include the following information on the DD Form 1131: Member's name, SSN, Date of
         Deposit, Amount of Deposit.
      62.4.3. Collections From Air Force Members Paid on DJMS-Reserve Component. Also see AFMAN
      65-116, V3, chapter 45 for more details.
         62.4.3.1. Prepare a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, citing the service’s SDP appropria-
         tion.
            62.4.3.1.1. Air Force - 57X6010 S380100
            62.4.3.1.2. Army - 21X6010 S121200
            62.4.3.1.3. Navy - 17X6025 100013C 000XXXXXXXXX (X equal member’s SSN)
            62.4.3.1.4. Marines - 17X6026 10001 3C 000XXXXXXXXX (X equal member’s SSN)
         62.4.3.2. The voucher will have the appropriate voucher prefix and type ‘SDP, member paid by
         DJMS-RC’ in the description column. Put the date of deposit in the receiving office ‘date’ block
         and in the ‘date received’ column.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        979


       62.4.3.3. Ensure the voucher has the member’s full name, SSN, amount of collection, and month
       of entitlement.
       62.4.3.4. If the member makes a deposit with a personal check, make payable to the defense
       accounting officer (DAO).
       62.4.3.5. Advise the member to maintain his or her copy of every SDP cash collection voucher
       62.4.3.6. Fax or mail a copy of the collection voucher for Air Force Guard or Reserve members
       only to DFAS-JGM/DE, fax is DSN 926-6878.
       62.4.3.7. Process the collection as a for-others.

62.5. Special Provisions:
   62.5.1. Withdrawal of Interest on Accounts Exceeding $10,000. In situations where the member's
   principal and interest on deposit reached $10,000, amounts representing interest accruing in the
   account subsequent to that time, which cause the $10,000 total to be exceeded, may be withdrawn
   quarterly at the member's request.
   62.5.2. Final Settlement of SDP Accounts. Final settlement of amounts deposited into SDP is made
   only by DFAS-CL. DFAS-CL maintains SDP records for members of all the services and makes pay-
   ments to the members. Request for payment must be submitted in writing to DFAS-CL. To expedite
   payment, recommend sending request either by datafax or message.
       62.5.2.1.              DFAS-CL datafax number:
                              DSN 580-6924 or commercial (216) 522-6924.
                      DFAS-CL inquiry number:
                              DSN 580-6545 or commercial (216) 522-6545.
                      DFAS-CL message address:
                              Defense Finance and Accounting Service
                              Cleveland Center: Code FMCS
                              1240 East 9th Street
                              Cleveland, Ohio 44199-2055
                      DFAS-CL mailing address:
                              DFAS-Cleveland
                              Attn: Code 643
                              1240 East 9th Street
                              Cleveland, Ohio 44199-2055


       62.5.2.2. Final settlement may be made upon member's departure from the eligible area or after,
       as follows:
980                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             62.5.2.2.1. When an eligible member has an SDP account and departs the area, all deposits
             plus interest will be repaid upon member's request.
             62.5.2.2.2. When an eligible member has an SDP account and member is discharged or sepa-
             rated overseas (not for reentry into the Service), all deposits plus interest will be repaid upon
             member's request following discharge or separation from the service.
NOTE: Members serving in the eligible area who are discharged and immediately reenlist, extend their
enlistments, or who are discharged to accept a commission, may not withdraw their deposits.
             62.5.2.2.3. When an eligible member has an SDP account and member is in a missing status,
             all deposits, plus interest, will be repaid upon direction of the Secretary concerned or designee.
             62.5.2.2.4. When an eligible member who has a savings deposit account dies, all deposits,
             plus interest, will be repaid upon settlement of member's unpaid pay and allowances as pro-
             vided in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 36.
      62.5.3. Procedures for making withdrawals:
         62.5.3.1. Emergency withdrawals. Withdrawals may be made only in an emergency when the
         health or welfare of a member or dependent(s) would be jeopardized if the withdrawal were not
         granted. Emergency withdrawals may be authorized by the member's commanding officer.
             62.5.3.1.1. Member must submit a written application for emergency withdrawal to his or her
             commander specifying the reason for the emergency withdrawal and the amount of money
             needed as well as information on where the payment should be sent.
             62.5.3.1.2. The commander must be assured of the validity of the reason for the emergency
             withdrawal request. Based on those findings, the request is approved or disapproved. If dis-
             approved, commander returns the request to the member. If approved, it is forwarded to FSO
             or agent who submits the request to DFAS-CL. Include, SSN, branch of service, identify the
             account as Persian Gulf (PG) or Operation Joint Endeavor (OJE), and amount requested
             (either a specific amount or the balance in the account). Provide payment delivery information
             including account number, type of account (checking or savings) and the routing transit num-
             ber (RTN Number) from Table 50 (if EFT). Also indicate that this is an emergency request
             and that the request has been approved by the member's commander. The EFT method of pay-
             ment is strongly encouraged to avoid non-receipt or lost or stolen paper checks.
NOTE: Before preparing a withdrawal request, check the member's MMPA to ensure the DS and C2 for
the SDP deposit are on the member's record. If not, take steps to get the deposit on the member's record
before processing the request. If necessary, contact the FSO (or agent) who collected the money and
request the SDP deposit be processed. Unless the SDP deposit shows up on the member's pay record, the
member cannot withdraw.
             62.5.3.1.3. In extreme emergencies where the money is needed by the member at the military
             site, contact DFAS-CL to determine if the money is available. If so, pay the member locally,
             citing accounting classification 57X6010 S380100. Send payment information via fax, letter,
             or message to DFAS-CL. The fax, letter, or message will contain the following:
                62.5.3.1.3.1. Subject Line: indicate emergency withdrawal of savings deposit for
                name(s), SSN(s) and identification of account: PG or OJE.
                62.5.3.1.3.2. Dollar amount(s) paid.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       981


            62.5.3.1.3.3. Date payment(s) made.
        62.5.3.1.4. If the payment is to be made by DFAS-CL, the fax, letter, or message will contain
        the following:
            62.5.3.1.4.1. Subject Line: indicate emergency withdrawal of savings deposit for
            name(s), SSN(s) and identification of account: PG or OJE.
            62.5.3.1.4.2. Dollar amount(s) of withdrawal requested.
            62.5.3.1.4.3. Method of payment:
                62.5.3.1.4.3.1. Electronic funds transfer (EFT) will require the member’s account
                number, type of account (checking or savings), routing transit number (RTN), name
                and address of bank.
                   62.5.3.1.4.3.1.1. Check made to bank will require member’s account number, type
                   of account (checking or savings), name and address of bank.
                   62.5.3.1.4.3.1.2. Check payable to member and mailed to residence will require
                   complete mailing address.
     62.5.3.2. Member in a Missing Status. Payment may be made when directed by the Secretary
     concerned (or designee) when in the best interest of the member, his dependent(s), or the U.S.
     Government. (Member must be identified as PG or OJE participant.)
     62.5.3.3. Discharged Members. A separated member must request final settlement of his/her sav-
     ings deposit account. A letter must be sent to DFAS-CL and contain the following:
        62.5.3.3.1. Member’s name and identification of program affiliation: PG or OJE.
        62.5.3.3.2. SSN
        62.5.3.3.3. Amount
        62.5.3.3.4. Method of payment
     62.5.3.4. Accounts Reaching $10,000. Any amounts representing interest accruing in the account
     subsequent to that time which caused the $10,000 total to be exceeded, may be withdrawn quar-
     terly at the member’s request. Request will be submitted via fax or letter to DFAS-CL. Checks of
     EFT payments will be forwarded to address or bank account specified. The request to DFAS-CL
     will contain the following:
        62.5.3.4.1. Member name and identification of program affiliation: PG or OJE.
        62.5.3.4.2. Member SSN
        62.5.3.4.3. Method of payment
     62.5.3.5. Closing of Account.
        62.5.3.5.1. DFAS-CL will repay all savings deposits plus interest upon member(s) request fol-
        lowing termination of IDP/HFP or upon completion of Operation Joint Endeavor duties. The
        member must provide the disbursing officer with a written request for repayment. The request
        will contain the following:
            62.5.3.5.1.1. Member name
982                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


               62.5.3.5.1.2. Member SSN0
               62.5.3.5.1.3. Method of payment
               62.5.3.5.1.4. Date payment is desired
           62.5.3.5.2. The disbursing officer will retains a copy of the request and sends a fax or letter to
           DFAS-CL, to include:
               62.5.3.5.2.1. Subject Line: indicate closing account for name(s), SSN(s) and identifica-
               tion of account: PG or OJE.
               62.5.3.5.2.2. Date IDP terminated or completion date of Operation Joint Endeavor duties
               62.5.3.5.2.3. Method of payment
               62.5.3.5.2.4. Date of payment, if 90 days following termination of IDP/HFP or OJE.
NOTE: All accounts must be identified by program participated in: Persian Gulf (PG), Operation Joint
Endeavor (OJE). If Operation Joint Endeavor is not identified as such, they will be processed as a Persian
Gulf account.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           983


                                              Chapter 63

                   SERVICE MEMBER'S GROUP LIFE INSURANCE (SGLI)

63.1. Description. Servicemember’s Group Life Insurance (SGLI) is described in the DoDFMR Volume
7A, chapter 47. Coverage amounts and the resulting premiums change periodically. The most recent
change was effective 1 September 2005, when Public Law 109-13, changed 38 USC Section 1967, to
increase maximum coverage from $250,000 to $400,000 for all members. SGLI coverage is available in
$50,000 increments up to the maximum of $400,000. The monthly premium deduction is at a rate of
$3.25 for each $50,000 of coverage ($3.25 for $50,000, $6.50 for $100,000, $9.75 for $150,000, $13.00
for $200,000, $16.25 for $250,000, $19.50 for $300,000, $22.75 for $350.000 and $26.00 for $400.000).
   63.1.1. Under certain conditions, member's spouse or next of kin will be notified if the member elects
   to decline, cancel or reduce SGLI coverage. The spouse will also be notified if coverage is designated
   for other than the member's current lawful spouse or their children.
   63.1.2. Members who elect to be insured for less than the maximum coverage amount, or elect to
   decline coverage entirely, must complete Form SGLV 8286, Servicemember’s Group Life Insurance
   Election and Certificate. For more information and to obtain Form SGLV 8286 visit www.insur-
   ance.va.gov

63.2. Traumatic Injury. Public law 109-13 also added a rider to the existing SGLI statute, effective 1
December 2005. Each service member that is insured under SGLI and suffers a loss from a traumatic
injury is eligible to receive monetary compensation for a total amount not less than $25,000 and not
greater than $100,000. All members with SGLI coverage must be covered under T-SGLI. An additional
cost of $1.00 will be added to the SGLI premium deduction each month. Members cannot decline trau-
matic SGLI unless they decline SGLI coverage. If the amount of coverage for SGLI is reduced by the
member to a lower option, a flat rate of $1.00 will still be assessed to the amount of the SGLI premium.
   63.2.1. T-SGLI payments are for members who sustain traumatic injuries, such as the loss of a limb
   or eyesight. The payment amount will be determined by OSGLI.
   63.2.2. Traumatic injury coverage will not affect entitlement to compensation or pension benefits.
   Traumatic injury coverage provides money for a loss due to a specific traumatic event while disability
   compensation is intended to provide ongoing financial support to make up for the loss in income-earn-
   ing potential due to service-connected injuries. Traumatic injury coverage is not designed to serve as
   an income replacement program but rather provides a payment to assist service members and their
   families through the injury recovery period.
   63.2.3. T-SGLI coverage will stop at midnight on the date of member’s separation from the uni-
   formed service.

63.3. Source of Input:
   63.3.1. The accession transaction automatically establishes maximum coverage for all members
   accessed into the Air Force through DJMS.
   63.3.2. The MPF maintaining member's personnel records prepares all input transactions, including
   changing SGLI options, and transmits direct to DFAS-DE. MPF input adds, stops or changes SGLI
984                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      deduction on member's MMPA. Processed transactions appear in section 6 of daily transaction regis-
      ter (DTR) for servicing FSO.

63.4. Pay Status. SGLI coverage and deductions are not stopped while a member is in an excess-leave
status without pay and allowances. DFAS-DE collects accumulated deductions when member returns to
normal duty status. Coverage continues for 31 days of AWOL or confinement status. SGLI coverage
starts automatically upon return to duty from AWOL or desertion status. DFAS-DE stops SGLI when a
member is separated.

63.5. Family SGLI. Effective 1 November 2001, Title 38, United States Code, allows for family cover-
age under Servicemembers Group Life Insurance (SGLI).
      63.5.1. The Family SGLI program provides coverage for the spouse and all children of members hav-
      ing SGLI coverage. Every member who has a SGLI option of other than zero (0), will automatically
      receive coverage under the new program for his/her spouse and children, unless the member reduces
      or declines coverage using VA Form 8286a. Payment will be made via payroll deduction. The deduc-
      tion for the spouse’s coverage will automatically start at the $100,000 coverage level. Exception: the
      spouse's coverage level cannot exceed the member’s coverage level. For example; if a member
      elected regular SGLI coverage of $50,000, the spouse’s coverage would be limited to $50,000. See
      Figure 63.3. for amounts of Family SGLI premiums. Children will be covered at the maximum cov-
      erage of $10,000 and there is no premium charged for the children’s coverage. The Family SGLI pre-
      miums are determined by the spouse’s birthday; if the spouse’s birthday is incorrect in DEERS,
      incorrect premium amounts will be collected. If member is not registered in DEERS, the premiums
      for spousal coverage are still due and will be collected retroactively upon registration into DEERS.
      Any changes in the member’s family status, such as a divorce or the death of a spouse, needs to be
      updated in DEERS in order to stop premium collection. A premium is due for the month of discharge/
      separation.
      63.5.2. Member married to member: a military member married to another military member is eligi-
      ble for Family SGLI coverage. Members who are married to other military members are covered
      under family SGLI even if they haven’t registered their spouse in DEERS; a debt will accrue for each
      month and retroactively be collected upon registration into DEERS.
         63.5.2.1. Collection will begin effective the later of: the date member is accessed in the service,
         date of marriage, or the date of implementation of family SGLI (November 2001). Example:
         member was accessed in 1999 and married to a military member in September 2003. Member
         didn’t update DEERS with the date of marriage until July 2004. A retro debt for family SGLI,
         from September 2003 through the month prior to current month, will be processed and a DB01
         transaction, effective current month, will be input to start the member’s family SGLI deduction.
         The member’s military spouse will also be assessed a debt for the same timeframe, processed in
         the same way. Using the same dates, if both members decline family SGLI in September, 2003,
         the same month as the marriage, no debt will be accessed. If the members fail to decline coverage
         by filing a SGLV 8286a, a debt will be assessed.
         63.5.2.2. The point of contact for Family SGLI questions is the MPF.
      63.5.3. Source of Input. The automatic deduction (FID DB) is started by input source 3740, Defense
      Manpower Data Center (DMDC), based on information obtained from Defense Enrollment Eligibility
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      985


  Reporting System (DEERS). The member’s MPF is responsible for maintaining the FSGLI documen-
  tation and providing that information to DEERS.
     63.5.3.1. Transactions for FSGLI are accepted from 3740 (DMDC) and Central Site. The DB01
     (start), DB02 (stop), DB04 (change), and DB06 (cancel) are the valid transactions.
     63.5.3.2. Reject codes for FSGLI (to help you research problems): ZOA: SGLI-OPTNS (FAM-
     ILY) INVALID-MUST EQUAL 1-9, A, or space. ZOB: SGLI AGE OPTION - MUST EQUAL
     SPACE WHEN SGLI-OPTN EQUAL SPACE. ZOX: FSGLI IMPLEMENTED 6 November -
     ZOX rejects occur when the transaction is attempted with an effective date prior to implementa-
     tion.
  63.5.4. Pay Status. See paragraph 63.4. above.
986                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 63.1. Format to Change or Stop SGLI Premium.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5      0DB04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23     YEAR AND MONTH CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


       32       APPROPRIATE CODE:
                0--TO STOP THE CURRENT SGLI DEDUCTION; NO COVERAGE
                5-- $50,000 COVERAGE
                A--$100,000 COVERAGE
                F-- $150,000 COVERAGE
                K--$200,000 COVERAGE
                Q--$250,000 COVERAGE
                R--$300,000 COVERAGE
                S-- $350,000 COVERAGE
                T-- $400,000 COVERAGE


       33       SGLI - OPTNS FAMILY
                1--COVERAGE OF $10,000
                2--COVERAGE OF $20,000
                3--COVERAGE OF $30,000
                4--COVERAGE OF $40,000
                5--COVERAGE OF $50,000
                6--COVERAGE OF $60,000
                7--COVERAGE OF $70,000
                9--COVERAGE OF $80,000
                A--COVERAGE OF $100,000
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                     987


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    34        FSGLI AGE OPTION   AGE OPTION    COST PER THOUSAND
             AGE
             UNDER 25                A               0.06
             25-----29               B               0.06
             30-----34               C               0.06
             35-----39               D               0.075
             40-----44               E                0.10
             45-----49               F               0.19
             50-----54               G                0.28
             55-----59               H                0.42
             60-----64               I                0.54
             65-----69               J                0.54
             70-----74               K                0.54
             75-----                 L                0.54
988                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 63.2. Format to Cancel SGLI and FSGLI Premium.


 CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5     0DB06 (USED TO CANCEL A PREVIOUS DB04: (SEE NOTE BELOW).


      6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


      20-23    YEAR AND MONTH FROM THE CURRENT OPEN DB ENTRY


       32      APPROPRIATE CODE:
               0--TO STOP THE CURRENT SGLI DEDUCTION; NO COVERAGE
               5-- $50,000 COVERAGE
               A--$100,000 COVERAGE
               F-- $150,000 COVERAGE
               K--$200,000 COVERAGE
               Q--$250,000 COVERAGE
               R-- $300,000 COVERAGE
               S-- $350,000 COVERAGE
               T-- $400,000 COVERAGE


               NOTE: WHEN A DB06 (CANCEL) IS PROCESSED, THE SGLI/FSGLI WILL
               REVERT BACK TO THE PRIOR DEDUCTION (THE FIRST CLOSED DB
               ENTRY).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               989


Figure 63.3. Family SGLI Rates.


                                          Family SGLI Rates

         Amount of    Under                                                      60 &
         Insurance     35         35-39     40-44    45-49    50-54    55-59    Under
        $100,000      $6.00       $7.50     $10.00   $19.00   $28.00   $42.00   $54.00
        $90,000       $5.40       $6.75      $9.00   $17.10   $25.20   $37.80   $48.50
        $80,000       $4.80       $6.00      $8.00   $15.20   $22.40   $33.60   $43.20
        $70,000       $4.20       $5.25      $7.00   $13.30   $19.60   $29.40   $37.80
        $60,000       $3.60       $4.50      $6.00   $11.40   $16.80   $25.20   $32.40
        $50,000       $3.00       $3.75      $5.00    $9.50   $14.00   $21.00   $27.00
        $40,000       $2.40       $3.00      $4.00   $7.60    $11.20   $16.80   $21.60
        $30,000       $1.80       $2.25      $3.00   $5.70    $8.40    $12.60   $16.20

Figure 63.4. Premium for SGLI and T-SGLI.


 COVERAGE MONTHLY SGLI                     TSGLI         TOTAL
   LEVEL      PREMIUM                     PREMIUM       PREMIUM
      $50,000        $3.25                     $1.00         $4.25
     $100,000        $6.50                     $1.00         $7.50
     $150,000        $9.75                     $1.00        $10.75
     $200,000       $13.00                     $1.00        $14.00
     $250,000       $16.25                     $1.00        $17.25
     $300,000       $19.50                     $1.00        $20.50
     $350,000       $22.75                     $1.00        $23.75
     $400,000       $26.00                     $1.00        $27.00
990                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 Chapter 64

                                   MONTGOMERY G I BILL (MGIB)

64.1. General. There are two educational benefit programs that require contributions from members,
these are:
      64.1.1. Veteran’s Educational Assistance Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Montgomery G.I. Bill
      (MGIB).
      64.1.2. Veteran’s Educational Assistance Program (VEAP).

64.2. Montgomery G.I. Bill (MGIB). The MGIB was established as a contributory educational assis-
tance program available to individuals who first enter active duty on or after July 1, 1985. Individuals
electing to participate in the program will have their basic pay reduced by $100 per month for 12 months
usually beginning the month after graduation from basic training or officer training school. The decision
to decline enrollment or enroll is irrevocable and is made within the first 14 days of active duty. The
reduction may only be made for full months' of active duty--no reduction is made for the month of sepa-
ration or the month of accession. Specific details are contained in 38 United States Code chapter 30. See
paragraph 64.9. for information on the Montgomery G.I. Bill $600 contribution program.

64.3. Source of Input. Pay reductions are processed as a by-product of the personnel system (MILPDS).
MILPDS uses the election on DD Form 2366, Montgomery G I Bill, to determine the member's enroll-
ment status. For enrolled members, a DE transaction flows from MILPDS to DJMS-AC and is posted to
the member’s master military pay account (MMPA) as a DE entry.

64.4. Alternate Enrollment Programs. In specific instances, individuals may elect to enroll in MGIB
prior to separation under special programs. Messages will be issued with procedural instructions for col-
lection of the $1200 under these special programs. Individuals separating involuntarily under force
reduction programs (Transition Assistance Management Program for instance) are qualified to make cash
contributions to MGIB to either transfer eligibility from the Veterans Educational Assistance Program
(VEAP) or to negate their original disenrollment in MGIB. Additionally, those separating under the VSI
or SSB program may also contribute $1200 prior to separation for MGIB enrollment.
      64.4.1. Eligible individuals must elect to participate at the local education office on DD Form 2366
      prior to separation
      64.4.2. MGIB contribution of $1200 must be made prior to separation. A cash collection may be
      made to collect the entire balance due at separation under the following conditions: If a DE entry is
      present, it will remain open until the pay record converts to a separated (V) status. Therefore, a C203
      transaction is processed to post the cash collection against the DE entry.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           991


NOTE: Since the amount in the deduction to date (DETD field) in the DE entry includes the current
month deduction, the cash contribution must be computed by subtracting the amount in the DETD field
from $1200 and then adding in the current month deduction (DEDB). For example, the DETD in the DE
entry is $300. In order to pay the entire balance due, the cash collection would have to be for $1,000.


                      $1,200.00
                       - 300.00             (includes current month deduction)
                         900.00
                       + 100.00             (current month deduction)
                      $1,000.00


       64.4.2.1. If there is no DE entry present, local finance offices make two PQ payments for final
       separation pay - one for $1,200 payable to DFAS-JD/DE and the remainder to the member. If
       insufficient final separation payment exists to make the $1,200 payment, the member must bring
       cash, cashier’s check, or a money order payable to the local finance office for forwarding to
       DFAS-JD/DE. These collections must be accompanied by the proper collection voucher and
       include a statement identifying the collection as specifically for Montgomery G I Bill. Once the
       pay record has converted to a separated "V" status the DE and C2 entries must be posted by central
       site (see paragraph 64.6.).
   64.4.3. Forward the Treasury check (for PQ payments) for $1200, payable to the DFAS-DE Disburs-
   ing Officer, showing the member’s name, SSN, and MGIB contribution. Submit AF Form 1209 with
   the following information:
       64.4.3.1. Member's Name, SSN and Rank
       64.4.3.2. Member's date of entry on active duty (EAD)
       64.4.3.3. Member's date of separation (DOS)
       64.4.3.4. Name of special program member is separating under (VSI, SSB, TAMPS) and separa-
       tion program designator code (SPD) from the E5 transaction or DD Form 214
       64.4.3.5. Date of the Treasury Check and Check Number
       64.4.3.6. Point of Contact including name and phone number
       64.4.3.7. Mail check and AF 1209 to:
                             DFAS-JD/DE
                             PO Box 200030
                             Denver CO 80220-0030

64.5. Effect on Taxable Wages. MGIB is a reduction of entitlement to basic pay, not a deduction from
pay, under the provisions of the law. As such, amounts contributed are not subject to federal or state
income tax withholding and year to date wages are reduced accordingly. In cases of administrative error
where pay was erroneously reduced, the amount refunded to the member is subject to federal and state
992                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


income tax withholding when the refund is made. Example: Member disenrolled but pay reduction
started 9402 and continued through 9407 for a total of $600. Taxable wages were reduced by $600.
When the refund is made in 9408, taxable wages will be increased $600 and the net received by the mem-
ber will be approximately $400-475 depending on the number of exemptions and state of legal residence
claimed.

64.6. FSO Responsibility. The base education office is the office of primary responsibility for all MGIB
questions, including those concerning reductions of pay. The FSO does not have the capability to start,
stop, cancel, or change the MGIB reduction since all pay affecting actions relating to MGIB are done
through the personnel system. However, the FSO should be familiar with the DE MMPA entry and be
able to validate the MGIB reduction’s effect on taxable wages. All questions pertaining to benefits and eli-
gibility must be referred to the education office. Establish a CMS case when the member claims
non-receipt of MGIB, or VEAP deductions/refunds and refer to DFAS AC MGIB.

64.7. Central Site Responsibility.
      64.7.1. Cash collection made for MGIB reductions prior to separation will be posted on the MMPA
      by DFAS-PMJSAA/DE. If the member's pay record is in a suspended ("T") status when the collection
      is received, a DE01 transaction for the entire $1,200 and a C203 transaction to report the cash contri-
      bution can be processed. DFAS-PMJSAA/DE also ensures that proper documentation is forwarded to
      the respective areas tasked with making taxable wage adjustments.
      64.7.2. In the event cash contributions are made and there are insufficient wages year-to-date to be
      adjusted by the amount of the contribution, central site reviews the UH099C204 (MGIB/Taxable
      Wage Review) report. This report is run at the end of each quarter to allow the processing lines to
      review taxable wages and to make manual adjustments, as required, prior to the issuance of W-2 forms
      at year end.
      64.7.3. The monthly reduction amount is limited, by law, to $100. Central site has the capability to
      change the monthly MGIB reduction amount in the unlikely event an amount other than $100 was ini-
      tially established.
      64.7.4. Education offices have the ability to cancel the MGIB reduction. DFAS-PMJSAA/DE also
      has the ability to cancel the MGIB, but will only do so upon request and when provided with a copy
      of DD Form 2366 showing the member had declined enrollment.

64.8. Veteran’s Educational Assistance Program (VEAP). Members wishing to contribute to VEAP
may do so through use of a class S allotment to company code 9999963, which may pay through their last
month of active duty. The FSOs and GUSs brief members on enrollment and disenrollment procedures
for VEAP. They also stock and distribute VA Forms 5281, Application for Refund of Educational Contri-
butions. The following conditions apply:
      64.8.1. Member’s entry date must be equal to or greater than 1 Jan 1977 and less than 1 Jul 1985.
      64.8.2. Eligible members must have been initially enrolled in VEAP before 1 Apr 87. Members who
      have made contributions through lump-sum contributions or allotments at any time between January
      1977 (7701) and March 1987 (8703) are considered enrolled even if they have received a refund or do
      not have an active allotment on 1 Apr 87. Those members who have made no contributions either by
      lump sum or allotment before 1 Apr 87 may not enroll.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         993


  64.8.3. Allotment must be in amounts of $25 or $100 in increments of $5.
  64.8.4. Use only the following action indicators for class S VEAP allotments:
     64.8.4.1. Start-01.
     64.8.4.2. Increase amount-07.
     64.8.4.3. Decrease amount-08.
     64.8.4.4. Stop-02.
  64.8.5. Lump-sum contributions to VEAP for members enrolled before 1 Apr 1987 may be made in
  the maximum amount of $2,700, representing monthly amounts of $25 to $100 in increments of $5.
  The lump sum may cover a retroactive period of active duty service or a period into the future. Steps
  for making lump-sum contributions are:
     64.8.5.1. Lump-sum contributions may be in the form of a money order, cashier’s check or Trea-
     sury check payable to DFAS-PMJSAA/DE. No personal checks may be accepted.
     64.8.5.2. Member completes DD Form 2558 as shown in Figure 64.1. FSO must ensure the
     remarks block contains the amount of the lump sum contribution, the distribution instructions
     (including exact months if member has been advised deposits must cover specific months by the
     education officer or VA), and the check or money order number.
     64.8.5.3. Forward deposit and DD Form 2558 to:
                            DFAS-JD/DE
                            P.O. Box 173659
                            Denver, CO 80217
     64.8.5.4. FSO advises members:
         64.8.5.4.1. They may request a refund of their VEAP contributions and resubmit the contribu-
         tions in a lump sum before member’s date of separation.
         64.8.5.4.2. Monthly allotment contributions may continue to be made until the maximum of
         $2,700 has been reached.
     64.8.5.5. FSO advises members that lump sum contributions to VEAP are included in the monthly
     VEAP data DFAS-DE sends to VA.
  64.8.6. Disenrollment and refund procedures are the responsibility of FSOs or GSUs. Members wish-
  ing to disenroll from VEAP must initiate their requests for disenrollment through the FSO or GSU by
  completing VA Form 5281.
     64.8.6.1. Members who have contributed less than 12 consecutive months will be disenrolled
     only upon approval of their commanding officer. Such a request for disenrollment and refund can
     be approved only for hardship.
     64.8.6.2. Forward the completed VA Form 5281 to the FSO for completion and forwarding to the
     nearest Veterans Administration (VA) regional officer (including Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto
     Rico). Overseas FSOs should send completed VA Forms 5281 to:
994                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                VA Regional Office (242)
                                941 North Capitol Street
                                        Washington D.C., 20421


         Addresses of VA regional offices are contained in Attachment 4. By law, VA may take up to 60
         days to refund member’s contributions. Since errors on the VA Form 5281 may slow VA process-
         ing of the refund, accomplish the following steps before the form is mailed:
             64.8.6.2.1. Print or type all answers to ensure readability.
             64.8.6.2.2. Verify member’s full name and SSN.
             64.8.6.2.3. Ensure member’s address is current and correct for VA check mailing.
             64.8.6.2.4. In the command address block, ensure the address is the member’s current unit of
             assignment.
             64.8.6.2.5. Verify necessary signatures are valid and present.
             64.8.6.2.6. Check MMPA to verify month and date allotment to VEAP (company code
             9999963) was stopped.
      64.8.7. Members with an active allotment or who have contributed a lump sum payment within the
      preceding calendar quarter will receive a quarterly VEAP statement. All members with a VEAP
      account will receive an annual statement during the first quarter. These statements are mailed to the
      member’s LES mailing address and are based on data contained in the member’s VEAP master bank-
      ing record at the Veteran’s Administration.
      64.8.8. The FSO will act as an intermediary between the member and DFAS-DE on VA and will
      respond to the inquiry or contact the VA Hines DPC. Members are not to directly contact VA or
      DFAS-DE. The FSO obtains the answer and informs member. A private VA telephone number is
      available for use by FSO personnel only (not to be given to members) by contacting DFAS-PMJSAA/
      DE, DSN 926-7213.
      64.8.9. Improperly completed refund applications (VA Form 5281) will be returned by VA to the FSO
      for correction; following FSO correction, the VA Form 5281 will be returned to the VA. Members
      may choose to redistribute VEAP funds without requiring withdrawal of money and re-depositing the
      funds to increase monthly benefits. For example, if original allotment was for $75/month for 36
      months entitling member to benefits of $225/month for 36 months and the member wishes to
      re-deposit funds to represent a contribution of $100 for 27 months resulting in a benefit of $300/month
      for 27 months. FSOs may complete a DD Form 2558 indicating in the Remarks section that the mem-
      ber requests redistribution of funds at a specific dollar amount per month. Mail DD Forms 2558
      directly to DFAS-PMJSAA/DE, 6760 Irvington Place, Denver CO 80279-3000 for action.

64.9. $600 Additional Contribution for MGIB. The Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement
Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-419) authorized that beginning May 1, 2001, MGIB participants may elect
to contribute an additional sum up to $600, which is not refundable, to increase their monthly rate of edu-
cational benefits. This program is not available to VEAP program participants converting to the MGIB
program at any time. Eligible members may make these contributions at any time while on active duty,
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            995


over and above the $1200 pay reduction, and may contribute up to an additional $600, with a minimum
contribution of $20, increased in $20 increments. Members are not required to contribute the entire $600;
however the benefits they receive will be based on how much they contribute. This is a permanent pro-
gram. Members can start and stop these contributions as they wish. Members can either elect to do a full
lump sum ($600), a partial lump sum (for example, a member can decide to contribute $80 and then, a
year later, decide to contribute another $80; these would be considered partial lump sums), or by payroll
deduction.
   64.9.1. Tax Implications: None. The $600 additional contribution is not a reduction of entitlement
   and will not reduce taxable wages.
   64.9.2. Enrollment: Education offices are responsible for enrolling members for the additional con-
   tribution and for answering all entitlement and eligibility questions on this program. The FSO is only
   responsible for collecting and processing the collections for the additional contribution. The collec-
   tions may be either by lump sum, partial lump sum, or by monthly payroll deduction. Eligible indi-
   viduals must elect to participate at the local education office using DD Form 2366. NOTE: The $600
   additional contribution will not be open to members switching from VEAP to MGIB.
   64.9.3. Finance Procedures.
       64.9.3.1. The DE01 for the $600 additional contribution program will only be established at a
       member’s request. It will not be automatically started by DJMS-AC. Finance must establish the
       deduction, using A DE entry, with transaction type A. If the member does not elect monthly
       deductions then finance will update these accounts as payments are received. In order to contrib-
       ute without using payroll deduction, the member must bring cash, cashier’s check, or a money
       order payable to the local finance office for forwarding to DFAS-JD/DE. These collections must
       be accompanied by the proper collection voucher and include a statement identifying the collec-
       tion as specifically for Montgomery G I Bill. Two open DE entries can be on the MMPA at the
       same time--one for the basic MGIB (type code W) and one for the $600 additional MGIB benefit
       (type A). Cancellation of any DE will only be done at Central Site, just as they are currently pro-
       cessed for MGIB. Follow procedures for contributions at separation in paragraph 64.4.2. and
       64.4.3. above.
       64.9.3.2. To stop deductions, use a DE04 transaction. The DE04 transaction to stop collection
       action will process on the first of the following month just as the current DE01 processes on the
       first of the following month. This will allow the entry to stop deduction action and yet remain
       open on the MMPA. The DE04 entry can be input by base-level and central site.

64.10. VEAP to MGIB Open Window for $2,700. The Veterans benefits and health care improvement
act of 2000 (Public Law 106-419) authorized an open window to allow enrollment of VEAP participants
in the MGIB. This program became effective 1 March 2001. The open window for enrollment began 1
March 2001 and ends October 31, 2001; however, members have a full 18 months from their decision date
(the date they signed the DD Form 2366) to complete payment. This program requires that members pay
$2,700 either by monthly deduction (can be any amount) or a lump sum payment can also be made.
   64.10.1. Enrollment: Education offices are responsible for enrolling members in the program and eli-
   gible individuals must elect to participate at the local education office, using DD Form 2366, between
   1 March 2001 and 31 October 2001. Do not process a DD Form 2366 for this program that is dated
   after 31 October 2001.
996                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      64.10.2. Finance Overview: Establish the deduction for the open window using a DE entry, type V.
      64.10.3. Separations/Retirements: Individuals who are separating, but not retiring, must pay the full
      $2,700 before their discharge from active duty. However, retirees can make payments from their
      retired pay. If a retiree wishes to make payments to retired pay, or have payroll deductions made from
      his/her retired pay, the retiree must submit the following to retired pay in Cleveland (address given
      below). NOTE: In all cases, the $2,700 must be paid within 18-months after the member enrolled in
      the program.
         64.10.3.1. A copy of the DD Form 2366.
         64.10.3.2. If member has paid part of the $2,700 for the open window while on active duty, he or
         she should submit documentation to prove what has already been collected by active duty.
         64.10.3.3. If the retiree wants payment to be made by allotment, a completed DD 2558, to have
         the desired amount deducted from retired pay, must be submitted to DFAS-CL.
         64.10.3.4. If the retiree chooses to pay by lump sum, he/she must submit a payment (check or
         money order) made payable to “Defense Finance and Accounting Service”, ensuring “MGIB” is
         written on the memo line of the check.
         64.10.3.5. The above documentation and lump sum payments, as well as any correspondence for
         retired pay, should be sent to: Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Military Retired Pay,
         P.O. Box 7130, London, KY 40742-7130. The phone number for retired pay in Cleveland is
         1-800-321-1080.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 997


Figure 64.1. DE01 Format to Start MGIB Deductions.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0DE01


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


     20-23      YR-MO-START


     24-30      DEDUCTION AMOUNT (SEE NOTE 1)


      31        TRANS-TYPE (SEE NOTE 2)
                  A - $600 ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION
                  V - 2001 VEAP TO MGIB OPEN WINDOW
                  W – ACCESSION
                  Z - OPEN WINDOW


     32 -67     FILLER (LEAVE BLANK)


     68-80      COMMON DATA (LEAVE BLANK)


                NOTE 1: MUST BE NUMERIC AND GREATER THAN ZERO, LEFT ZERO
                FILL.
                NOTE 2: MUST BE A, V, W, OR Z.
                IF A - DEDUCTION AMOUNT MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER THAN
                $20 AND EQUAL TO OR
                      LESS THAN $600.
                IF V - DEDUCTION AMOUNT MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESSER THAN
                $2,700.00.
998                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 64.2. DE04 Format to Change MGIB Deductions.


 CHARACTER                                 DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5     0DE04


      6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


      15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


      20-23    YR-MO-START


      24-30    DEDUCTION AMOUNT (SEE NOTE 1)


       31      TRANS-TYPE (SEE NOTE 2)
                 A - $600 ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION
                 V - 2001 VEAP TO MGIB OPEN WINDOW
                 W – ACCESSION
                 Z - OPEN WINDOW


      32-38    DEDTN-TO-DATE (SEE NOTE 3)


      39-67    FILLER (LEAVE BLANK)


      68-80    COMMON DATA (LEAVE BLANK)


               NOTE 1: MUST BE NUMERIC AND GREATER THAN ZERO, LEFT ZERO
               FILL.
               NOTE 2: MUST BE A, V, W, OR Z.
               IF A, THEN DEDUCTION AMOUNT MUST BE EQUAL TO OR GREATER
               THAN $20 AND EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN $600.00.
               IF V, THEN DEDUCTION AMOUNT MUST BE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN
               $2,700.00.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              999


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             NOTE 3: IF TRANSACTION TYPE IS A, THIS MUST BE NUMERIC
             (GREATER THAN ZERO AND LESS THAN OR EQUAL TO $600 OR SPACES.
             LEFT ZERO FILL). IF TRANSACTION TYPE IS W, Z, OR V, MUST BE
             SPACES.
1000                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 64.3. DE06 Format to Cancel MGIB Deductions.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5     0DE06


       6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


       20-23    YR-MO-START (SEE NOTE 1)


       24-67    FILLER (LEAVE BLANK)


       68-80    COMMON DATA (LEAVE BLANK)


                NOTE 1: MUST BE VALID DATE “YYMM”; MUST BE LESS THAN OR
                EQUAL TO CURRENT MONTH OR CURRENT MONTH PLUS 1.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1001


                                               Chapter 65

                                            COLLECTIONS

65.1. Description. See Chapter 55 of this volume and DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 44 through 54,
for general information concerning collections.

65.2. Substantiating Documents:
   65.2.1. SF 1098, Schedule of Canceled or Undelivered Checks (Figure 65.1.). Used to process mili-
   tary pay and allowance check cancellations.
   65.2.2. DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher (Figure 65.2.). Used to process collections for
   debts recorded on the MMPA and overpayments of TLA.

65.3. Canceled and Undeliverable Checks (FORMAT-ID C1):
   65.3.1. Fiscal Year for Accounting Classification. When regular military payroll checks issued in a
   prior fiscal year (FY) are canceled, cite the current FY in the account classification on SF 1098.
   Include the appropriate budget programs. Make next payment from current FY.
   65.3.2. Input Format. Figure 65.3. contains formats for check cancellation input transaction for
   DFAS-DE processing. If cancellation involves an amount greater than seven digits, send information
   to DFAS-DE/FJF by telephone or message for input. This transaction processes only payment types
   PA, PB, PC, PD, PF, PG, PH, PJ, PK, PL, PM, PN, PQ and PV. Figure 65.1. illustrates document pre-
   pared to support these transactions.
   65.3.3. Allotment Checks and Regular Paychecks. DFAS-DE handles cancellation of allotment
   checks. Send checks and documentation to DFAS-DE/OCC.
   65.3.4. Multiple Checks. When canceling more than one check for the same dollar amount for the
   same member, use a separate collection voucher for each check.

65.4. Application to Member's Indebtedness (FORMAT-ID C2). Process collections to offset a mem-
ber's indebtedness recorded in MMPA as a clearing account 510 or 530 collection. The format identifica-
tion (CP 54 - 55) and the indebtedness type code (CP 52) identify the indebtedness this transaction offsets
in the MMPA. Process this collection on a DD Form 1131. Figure 65.4. contains formats to report this
type of collection. Figure 65.2. illustrates document to support this transaction.

65.5. Voucher Totals for Collections. Prepare input transactions for voucher totals for all clearing
account 510 or 530 collection transactions as prescribed in Chapter 76. Corrections of other than money
amounts do not require a voucher total transaction if duplication is included in totals reported.

65.6. JUMPS Voucher Balancing/MAFR Reconciliation Report (PCN MP-19-173) for Collections.
See Chapter 76 of this volume.

65.7. Collections Reported After Separation. Use appropriate collection input.
1002                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


65.8. Substitute Checks. If a member receives a substitute check, Paying and Collecting prepares and
forwards a copy of AF Form 3126, General Purpose, with substitute check information to military pay.

65.9. Collections for Jury Duty Fees Paid to Military Members. On 4 Nov l982, the Comptroller
General of the United States ruled an active duty military member performing jury duty may keep jury
fees received only if the jury duty was performed when the member was in a leave status. If the jury duty
was performed when the member was not in a leave status, the member may not retain jury fees (as distin-
guished from expenses).
   65.9.1. Fees Versus Expenses. The member may keep monies received and identified as for expenses
   (for example, transportation expenses) whether or not in a leave status. Use the court documents (for
   example, order, subpoena, summons, official request, etc.) received by the member to determine
   whether the court paid a jury fee or expense. When there is a question, contact the local judge advo-
   cate office for assistance in making a determination. Many states now use an expense allowance reim-
   bursement system rather than fees. Therefore, members performing jury duty in these courts would
   receive no fees requiring collection. Your base JA should be contacted to determine the system in use
   in the local state.
   65.9.2. Identification of Members. It is the responsibility of the member's immediate supervisor to
   inform the local finance office whenever a member is granted an excused absence not involving leave
   for jury duty. Once a member has been identified, the finance officer must establish a follow-up sus-
   pense to ensure the fees are collected.
   65.9.3. Collection Procedures. Jury fees collected from military members are to be deposited into
   receipt account 573210 .9999, Receipts Not Otherwise Classified. The military pay area is to use a
   DD Form 1131, with a CP voucher number prefix for these collections. No C203 or C903 transactions
   are required. If the member cannot make a cash payment, the military pay area is to process a DS01
   transaction using Chapter 69 guidelines.

65.10. Collection of Witness Fees. When a member acts as a witness and is not in a leave status, or on
scheduled off duty time, he or she is indebted to the United States Government for the fees received for
acting as a witness. The member may keep monies received and identified as for expenses (for example,
transportation expense) whether or not in a leave status or on scheduled off duty time. Use the same pro-
cedures for collection of witness fees as used for collection of Jury Duty fees.

65.11. Cash Collection of Court-Martial Fines. Per the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, a fine is in the nature of
a judgment. It makes a member pecuniarily liable to the United States for the amounts specified in the
sentence. They may be either:
   65.11.1. Paid in cash by the member.
   65.11.2. Collected by deduction from the member's current pay, or
   65.11.3. Collected by deduction on settlement of a member's pay account at discharge. When a mem-
   ber has been tried by court martial and ordered to pay a fine in cash, there is no requirement to enter
   the cash collection onto the pay account. Court-martial fines for enlisted members, who have been
   ordered to pay in cash, are to be collected into the Treasury Trust Fund Receipt Account for the Armed
   Forces Retirement Homes (84 8522.0003). Court-martial fines for officers, who have been ordered to
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   1003


   pay in cash, are to be collected into the military personnel appropriation (57* 3500 32* 999.07
   S525725).

65.12. Cash Collection of Advance Pay. Members have the option to make partial repayments in cash.
Process cash collection, on a DD Form 1131, as a C203. (See Chapter 35.)

65.13. Cash Collection for Overpayment of TLA. Use DD Form 1131 as collection voucher, process-
ing as a C3 transaction (Figure 65.5.).
1004                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 65.1. SF 1098, Schedule of Canceled or Undelivered Checks.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                            1005


Figure 65.2. DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher.
1006                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 65.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Canceled or Undeliverable Checks - Member's
Pay.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5     0C103/06 OR AC105 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


       6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25    YYMMDD OF DATE OF COLLECTION VOUCHER


       27-30    ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO OTHERWISE, BLANK


       31-38    COLLECTION VOUCHER NUMBER


       39-45    AMOUNT OF COLLECTION IN DOLLARS AND CENTS

       46-48    CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


       49-50    FORMAT-ID OF PAYMENT BEING CANCELED:
                PA--ADVANCE PAY
                PB--ARREARS OF PAY
                PC--CASUAL PAY
                PD--CLASS X ALLOTMENT
                PF--PAY HELD (RELEASE)
                PG--BASIC TRAINING
                PJ--CONTINUATION PAY
                PK--PARTIAL PAY
                PL--SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS
                PM--REGULAR REENLISTMENT BONUS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             1007


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             PN--REGULAR MID-MONTH PAY
             PH--REGULAR END-OF-MONTH PAY, PRIOR MONTH
             PQ--SEPARATION PAY
             PV--COMFORT ITEMS PAY


    51-58    PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER OF CANCELED OR UNDELIVERABLE
             CHECK


    59-64    YYMMDD OF DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


     66      FOR DFAS-DE USE ONLY (INDICATES REASON FOR CHECK
             CANCELLATION)


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
1008                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 65.4. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collections to Apply to Member's Indebtedness.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5      0C203/06 OR AC205 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25     YYMMDD OF DATE OF COLLECTION VOUCHER


        26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                 A--AIR FORCE
                 B—ARMY
                 C—NAVY
                 D—MARINES
                 G--COAST GUARD
                 M--STATE DEPARTMENT


       27-30     ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                 FROM INPUT FSO OTHERWISE, BLANK


       32-39     COLLECTION VOUCHER NUMBER

       40-48     AMOUNT OF COLLECTION IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


       49-51     CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                 510—OFFICER
                 530—ENLISTED


        52       INDEBTEDNESS TYPE CODE


       54-55     FORMAT-ID:
                 DE--IF APPLICABLE TO MGIB
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             1009


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             DG--IF APPLICABLE TO GOVERNMENT PROPERTY LOST OR DAMAGED
             DQ--IF INDEBTEDNESS APPLIES TO MILITARY PAY OR ALLOWANCE
             OVERPAYMENT
             DR--IF APPLICABLE TO EXCESS WEIGHT, HOUSEHOLD GOODS OR
             EXCESS COSTS, HOUSE TRAILER
             DS--IF APPLICABLE TO ANY OTHER INDEBTEDNESS
             DV--IF INDEBTEDNESS APPLIES TO AN ADVANCE
             DW--IF INDEBTEDNESS APPLIES TO AN OVERPAYMENT OF CASUAL OR
             PARTIAL PAYMENT


     56      ADVANCE PAY CATEGORY WHEN FORMAT -ID IS DV


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
1010                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 65.5. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collections of TLA Overpayments.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5     0C303/06 OR AC305 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


       6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25    YYMMDD OF DATE OF COLLECTION VOUCHER


       32-39    COLLECTION VOUCHER NUMBER


       40-45    AMOUNT OF COLLECTION IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


       46-48    BUDGET PROJECT:
                515—OFFICER
                535—ENLISTED


       49-50    NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS, TLA, REPORTED ON PAYMENT
                TRANSACTION


       51-52    NUMBER OF DAYS OVERPAID TLA OR ZEROS

       53-54    FISCAL YEAR FOR WHICH TLA WAS COLLECTED


       55-58    JFTR LOCATION TLA PERTAINS TO IF LOCATION IS NOT UNDER
                RENTPLUS OR BLANK


        59      TLA TYPE CODE:
                D—DEPARTURE
                E--DEPARTURE EXTENSION
                I—INITIAL
                X--INITIAL EXTENSION
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             1011


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    60-64    JFTR LOCATION CODE THAT TLA PERTAINS TO OR BLANK


             NOTE:
             A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
             CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
             THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
1012                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               Chapter 66

                                               HELD PAY

66.1. Description. Held Pay is a method (either voluntary or involuntary) of specifying a monthly
amount to be withheld from a member's pay. The types of held pay are:
   66.1.1. Held Pay - Member's request. (See paragraph 66.2.)
   66.1.2. Held Pay - Commander/FSO request. (See paragraph 66.3.)
   66.1.3. Held Pay - Garnishment. (See paragraph 66.4.)

66.2. Held Pay-Member's Request:
   66.2.1. Purpose. Held pay - member's request is a method by which a member specifies a monthly
   amount to be withheld from his or her regular pay. This type of held pay is strictly voluntary.
   66.2.2. Member:
       66.2.2.1. Can elect to have pay withheld from their regular pay.
       66.2.2.2. Can request withholding be stopped.
       66.2.2.3. Can change the monthly amount being withheld.
       66.2.2.4. May request payment of any amount withheld.
       66.2.2.5. May request any amount withheld be released into his/her regular net pay.
   66.2.3. Documents Required:
       66.2.3.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (MPO).
       66.2.3.2. Money list line item supporting payment (Chapter 37).
   66.2.4. FSO:
       66.2.4.1. Prepares DD Form 114 (Figure 66.1.) to start or stop pay withholding. Effective date of
       a start action is the first day of the month withholding is to begin. Effective date of stop action is
       the last day of the month withholding is to stop.
       66.2.4.2. Based upon request from member, prepares DD Form 114 to change withholding
       amount. Effective date for a change action is the first day of the month in which the change is
       desired.
       66.2.4.3. Based upon request from the member to release an amount into his or her regular pay,
       prepares an MPO specifying the amount and date to be released. Effective date for a release action
       is any date within current month.
       66.2.4.4. Prepares and submits a DJMS input transaction record in the format shown in Figure
       66.3.
       66.2.4.5. Pays member all or part of accumulated balances. (See Chapter 37) Upon request from
       the member for a payment, the paying FSO uses reasonable means to confirm the balance by
       reviewing DFAS Form 702, Leave and Earnings Statement, or by making an inquiry to DFAS-DE.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1013


      66.2.4.6. Prepares and submits a DJMS input transaction record in format shown in Figure 66.5.
   66.2.5. Rejects. See Chapter 4.

66.3. Held Pay-Commander/FSO Request:
   66.3.1. Purpose. Held pay - Commander/FSO request is a method of withholding pay otherwise due
   the member, when the member has submitted a remission application for a debt. (See Chapter 73)
   This procedure is used at the discretion of the commander/FSO subject to the conditions in b below.
   The amount of pay withheld may not exceed the maximum collection rate specified in paragraph 69.6.
   66.3.2. Conditions:
      66.3.2.1. All of the following conditions must apply before withholding pay (except for advance
      leave which will become excess upon separation):
          66.3.2.1.1. Member is indebted to the United States Government or its instrumentalities.
          66.3.2.1.2. The member is projected to separate and the amount of the debt cannot be col-
          lected from the member's projected final pay if the remission application is denied. FSOs
          should use "HELD PAY COMMANDER/FSO REQUEST" to hold monies due the US prior to
          a member's separation.
      66.3.2.2. When a member has advance leave which will become excess upon separation and has
      signed AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization, the FSO may withhold a portion of the mem-
      ber's pay to satisfy the debt. The member's signature on AF Form 988 signifies consent for with-
      holding pay for the advance leave which will become excess upon separation.
   66.3.3. Document Required. Commander requires FSO to start this type of held pay by signed certif-
   icate (Figure 66.1.). Subsequent actions stopping, changing, or canceling held pay also require com-
   mander's certificate and MPO. A release (FORMAT-ID HB13) is not processed at base level;
   DFAS-DE releases balance in account based on remission decision.
   66.3.4. Effect. Start, stop, change or cancel held-pay transactions have these effects on MMPA:
      66.3.4.1. Start (01). Starts withholding pay at commander's request and accumulates amount
      withheld.
      66.3.4.2. Stop (02). Stops withholding as of transaction effective date. No action is taken on bal-
      ance that has been withheld as a result of this action.
      66.3.4.3. Change (04). Begins withholding at new rate and on effective date shown in transaction.
      No action is taken on balance that has been withheld.
      66.3.4.4. Cancel (06). Cancels withholding and releases amounts withheld. Action is dated same
      date as start action it cancels. Amounts released are added to a member's next regular pay. If orig-
      inal transaction is effective in a future month, do not process cancel transaction until original
      transaction appears on your daily DTR as processed. A closed HB entry cannot be canceled.
   66.3.5. Input. Prepare input transactions in format shown in Figure 66.4.

66.4. Held Pay-Garnishments:
   66.4.1. Purpose. A held pay for garnishment is used to withhold pay otherwise due a member, for
   payment of court-ordered child support or alimony to the proper court.
1014                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   66.4.2. General. While DFAS-DE receives most court-ordered garnishments for dependent support
   directly from the courts, the FSO may receive them also. Upon receipt of such a document, it should
   be forwarded IMMEDIATELY to DFAS-DE/DG, 6760 E. Irvington Pl, Denver CO 80279-8000.
   66.4.3. Procedures.
       66.4.3.1. Upon receipt of a court-ordered garnishment for dependent support, DFAS-GAG/CL
       will adjudicate the document, specifying the legal obligations of the member, and transmit a gar-
       nishment (HG) transaction to the automated garnishment system (AGS).
       66.4.3.2. A notification letter is automatically generated, when the HG transaction is processed,
       informing the member that a court ordered garnishment has been received. The notification letter
       contains the terms of the garnishment, any suppression action required, and advice on stopping
       allotments, if necessary.
       66.4.3.3. No transaction input from the FSO is required.
       66.4.3.4. Held pay amounts remain in the original military pay appropriation, 57*3500 510 or 530
       (as applicable), until released.
       66.4.3.5. Effective 1 March 2002, garnishments will not be prorated. For example, even if a
       member does not serve a full month, the full amount of the garnishment is deducted, based on the
       amount of the member’s disposable earnings. We will not pro-rate based on the number of the
       days the member was paid in the month.
   66.4.4. Points of contact for the FSO are Cleveland (DFAS-GAG/CL) for legal determinations,
   address changes, and payment inquiries. Contact DFAS-PMJSAC/DE for returned checks and pay-
   ment histories. The customer service number for Cleveland is 1-866-859-1845 or the member can
   contact them through the web site provided on the notification letters www.dfas.mil/money/garnish
   or fax document to 216-522-6960. The customer service number for Denver is 1-800-433-0461
   option 4, DSN 926-7348.

66.5. Held Pay-Other.
   66.5.1. All other held pay is generated as a by-product of central site processing.
   66.5.2. An HI entry will be created for local payees whenever they depart on PCS. The HI will con-
   tain the member’s net pay for the duration of the PCS status.
NOTE: The HI entry replaces the PI entry.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                       1015


Figure 66.1. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order (Start Held Pay).
1016                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 66.2. DD Form 114, Military Pay Order - Start Held Pay (Commander/FSO Request).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             1017


Figure 66.3. Format to Start/Stop/Change/Cancel/Release Pay Held - Member's Request.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0HA01/02/04/06/13


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD ACTION IS EFFECTIVE


     33-38      MONTHLY WITHHOLDING AMOUNT


      OR


     33-39      AMOUNT TO BE RELEASED (ACTION INDICATOR 13)
1018                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 66.4. Format to Start/Stop/Change/Cancel Pay Held - Commander's/FSO's Request.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5     0HB01/02/04/06


       6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25    EFFECTIVE-DATE: YYMMDD ACTION IS EFFECTIVE


       33-39    MONTHLY WITHHOLDING AMOUNT


                NOTE: HB13 TRANSACTIONS TO RELEASE COMMANDER’S REQUEST
                HELD PAY CAN ONLY BE PROCESSED BY CENTRAL SITE.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            1019


Figure 66.5. Format to Report/Cancel Held Pay Payments.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PF03/06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YEAR, MONTH AND DAY OF THE VOUCHER


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B--ARMY
                C--NAVY
                D--MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


     27-30      ENTER DSSN OF NAVY FSO IF DIFFERENT FROM INPUT FSO,
                OTHERWISE LEAVE BLANK


     32-39      ENTER VOUCHER NUMBER

     40-48      ENTER AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IN DOLLARS AND CENTS


     49-51      ENTER CLEAR ACCOUNT ID:
                510--OFFICER
                530--ENLISTED


     52-53      ENTER FORMAT ID:
                HA--MEMBER’S REQUEST
                HG--GARNISHMENT (CENTRAL SITE ONLY)
                HM--SPLIT PAY OPTION
1020                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       60-65   BLANK FOR FORMAT IDS HA AND HM


               NOTE: ALL REQUIRED DATA ENTERED IN THE PF06 MUST MATCH
               EXACTLY THE DATA ENTERED IN THE ORIGINAL PF03 TRANSACTION
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1021


                                               Chapter 67

             COURT-MARTIAL SENTENCES AND NON-JUDICIAL PUNISHMENT

67.1. Description. Various sentences associated with courts-martial and non-judicial punishment affect
member's pay and allowances differently. The DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapters 48 and 49, describe the
effects as follows:
   67.1.1. Forfeitures:
       67.1.1.1. Partial Forfeitures. A sentence to partial forfeiture of pay deprives a member of the
       amount of pay stated in the sentence. The sentence applies for the number of months or days
       expressly stated.
       67.1.1.2. Effective Date. Court martial sentences to forfeitures or grade reduction become effec-
       tive on the earlier of 14 days after the date on which the sentence was adjudged or on the date
       approved by the convening authority, unless the convening authority defers application of the for-
       feitures pending completion of further appellate review. (This is effective for court martial sen-
       tences adjudged after 31 March 1996. Prior to that time they were effective when approved by the
       convening authority.) When a sentence includes forfeiture and suspended confinement, or
       includes forfeitures without confinement, the forfeiture will apply to pay (and allowances, if total
       forfeitures are adjudged) becoming due on or after the date the sentence is effective.
       67.1.1.3. Automatic Forfeitures. An accused receiving a sentence to death or confinement for
       more than six months, or a punitive discharge and confinement for six month or less, automati-
       cally forfeits pay and allowances up to the jurisdictional limit of the court, (general court martial
       (GCM) - total forfeitures of pay and allowances, special court martial (SPCM) - 2/3 forfeitures of
       pay only) during the period on confinement or any subsequent parole.
NOTE: The amount of time in confinement used to determine which of these forfeitures apply should be
reduced by the amount of pre-trial confinement if credit is given for the pre-trial confinement. For exam-
ple, an 8-month sentence in which the member has served and been given credit for 4-months’ pre-trial
confinement would be considered as a 4-month sentence (consider only the amount of the sentence to be
served after the date the sentence is adjudged). The convening authority, however, has the authority to
waive any or all of the forfeitures for the period of confinement not to exceed six months, so as to direct
payment to provide for the support of the accused’s dependents. This is effective for all court-martial sen-
tences announced on or after 1 April 1996.
   67.1.2. Fines. A fine is in the nature of a judgment. It makes a member pecuniarily liable to the US
   for the amounts specified in the sentence. Fines are not self-executing. They are debts to the govern-
   ment until:
       67.1.2.1. paid in cash by the member,
       67.1.2.2. collected by deduction from the member's current pay, or
       67.1.2.3. collected by deduction on settlement of a member's pay account at discharge.
   67.1.3. Forfeiture of allowances. Allowances are forfeited only when a sentence by a general
   court-martial includes forfeiture of all pay and allowances.
1022                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   67.1.4. Application of Forfeitures. This means that forfeitures are withheld (as distinguished from
   collected) on and after the date a sentence is effective. It applies when a court-martial sentence, as
   approved by the convening authority, includes forfeiture and confinement, not suspended, or deferred,
   and the sentence is such that further appellate review is required before the sentence can be ordered
   executed.
   67.1.5. Execution of Forfeitures. This means actual collection of forfeitures when a sentence is
   ordered executed. The order of execution authorizes the collection of any monies withheld during the
   period specified in the convening authority's initial order to apply the forfeitures, and any monies
   remaining to be collected from pay during the remainder of the period of the approved sentence. If
   any amount ordered forfeited is not actually withheld or collected during the period specified by the
   approved sentence, such amount may be involuntarily collected as an erroneous payment as provided
   in rule 3, table 7-7-1, at a rate not to exceed the maximum authorized by rule 2, table 7-7-6. However,
   the collection rate will not be less than that fixed by the approved sentence.
   67.1.6. Non-judicial Punishment. Under authority of Article 15, UCMJ (10 USC 815), authorized
   commanders may impose non-judicial punishment for minor offenses without resorting to courts-mar-
   tial. Non-judicial punishments which affect pay are forfeiture of pay, reduction in grade or combina-
   tions of these. Except as specifically stated in DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 49, the provisions in
   chapter 48 of part seven relating to forfeiture of pay and reduction in grade by courts-martial also
   apply when such penalties are imposed as non-judicial punishment.

67.2. Substantiating Documents. Support input with court-martial orders (CMOs) or record of trial for
summary court-martial (assign number to order and use as an MPO or attach to DD Form 114, Military
Pay Order (MPO)). A message showing the essentials of the CMO may be used as a substantiating docu-
ment until receipt of the CMO.
   67.2.1. Distribution of CMOs. Judge Advocate (JA) furnishes FSO two copies of all CMOs.
   67.2.2. Distribution of Summary Court-Martial Records (SCM Records). JA furnishes the servicing
   FSO two signed copies of the record of trial when member's pay is affected, under cover of AF Form
   1373, MPO Document Control Log - Transmittal. AF Form 1373 is prepared in original and one
   copy. JA keeps a copy of AF Form 1373 and takes tracer action no later than the 5th workday after
   transmission if a daily register of transactions (DROT) has not been received from the FSO.
   67.2.3. Article 15 Correspondence:
       67.2.3.1. When a member's pay is affected, JA furnishes the servicing FSO two signed copies of
       AF Form 3070, Record of Non-judicial Punishment Proceedings, or AF Form 3071, Record of
       Recommended Non-judicial Punishment Proceedings, with any endorsements (excluding eviden-
       tiary material) along with AF Form 1373. AF Form 1373 is prepared in original and one copy. JA
       keeps a copy of AF Form 1373 and takes tracer action no later than the 5th workday after trans-
       mission if a DROT has not been received from the FSO.
       67.2.3.2. Article 15 correspondence not affecting a member's pay and summarized records of pun-
       ishment continue to be processed by JA per AFI 51-202.
       67.2.3.3. Determination of Effective Date. The effective date of the Article 15 punishment, when
       the punishment is reduction in grade, is the date the commander signs the imposition of punish-
       ment. When a member appeals the Article 15, reduction in grade remains in effect while action on
       the appeal is pending. If the appeal is denied, the effective date of the punishment remains the date
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              1023


       of the endorsement that imposed the punishment. See AFI 51-202, table 2, rules 5 and 6, columns
       B and D, note 2. However, if the member appeals and is within 30 days of separation, the collec-
       tion is not held up pending action on the appeal.

67.3. Responsibilities:
   67.3.1. Staff Judge Advocate. The Staff Judge Advocate is responsible for distributing Court-Martial
   Orders, Summary Court-Martial Records and Article 15 Correspondence.
   67.3.2. FSO. Servicing FSO is responsible for input to DJMS. (See paragraph 67.7. for input instruc-
   tions.) If finance is unable to process the required transactions (for example, total forfeitures), contact
   DFAS-DE/FJPC for assistance.

67.4. FSO Actions:
   67.4.1. Processing of CMOs: FSO prepares and processes an MPO when member's pay is affected.
   CMOs are numbered in sequence on a calendar-year basis. Establish controls to ensure receipt of all
   required copies.
   67.4.2. Processing of Summary Court-Martial Records (SCM Records). The FSO acknowledges
   receipt of these records by furnishing a DROT to JA, showing transactions input by JA (as input
   source). This provides evidence that action has been started and transactions have processed to mem-
   ber's MMPA.
   67.4.3. Processing of Article 15 Correspondence. The FSO acknowledges receipt of these records by
   furnishing a DROT to JA, showing transactions input by JA (as input source). This provides evidence
   that action has been started and transactions have processed to member's MMPA.
   67.4.4. Priority. All CMOs, summary court martial (SCM) records, and article 15 correspondence
   require priority action. FSO immediately prepares required MPOs and required transactions.

67.5. Special Provisions:
   67.5.1. Court-Martial Sentences -- Officers and Airmen. Handling amounts affected by court-martial
   sentence requires a specific coverage because of difference in tax adjustments and disposition of
   funds. Basically, fines do not reduce taxable wages while forfeitures do. Court-Martial fines and for-
   feitures for regular enlisted members are credited to the AFRH, while those for non-regular enlisted
   members and all commissioned officers are retained in, or credited to, the military pay appropriation.
   67.5.2. Allotments:
       67.5.2.1. Starting Allotments. A person in confinement awaiting trial by general or special
       court-martial may not start an allotment. A member who wishes to reapply for National Service
       Life Insurance or for reinstatement of government insurance submits an application, with provi-
       sion for direct payments, to the appropriate VA office. No Class N allotments may be started.
       67.5.2.2. Stopping Allotments. If an airman's term of enlistment expires while he or she is con-
       fined, stop all allotments as of end of month before ETS. If notice to stop allotments is received
       too late in month to meet established cut-off dates and member has enough accrued pay and allow-
       ances, allotments may be deducted to include month in which ETS occurs.
1024                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   67.5.3. Illegal Sentence -- Reimbursement for Pay. A member is entitled to reimbursement for pay
   withheld under an illegal sentence of a court-martial or Article 15. However, member must submit a
   claim to DFAS-DE/FJP when amount has been collected into trust fund receipt account 578930.6 and
   the history indebtedness (DF) deduction is no longer present on the MMPA. Process an E706 or E806
   if the DF history is still present on the MMPA.
   67.5.4. Forfeiture. There are instances when a commander orders or a convening authority approves
   a partial forfeiture of pay for 2 or more months and the FSO is unable to process the forfeiture in the
   first month. If the forfeiture is processed in a succeeding month, there are cases where the member
   does not receive any pay because the reduction includes amounts covering the previous month's for-
   feiture. Since the two-thirds rule applies and collections cannot exceed two-thirds of the member's
   pay, the FSO should take these interim actions:
       67.5.4.1. Compute the amount that is due the member based on the two-thirds rule.
       67.5.4.2. Issue a partial for the difference between amount received by the member (include allot-
       ments in your calculation) and the one-third due the member.
       67.5.4.3. Process the PK transaction in the normal manner. This action results in an increased
       indebtedness for the member but will allow payment to the member in the proper amount. This
       procedure must be repeated until the debt is liquidated or the member begins receiving one-third
       of his or her pay.
   67.5.5. Court Martial Waivers. An accused receiving a sentence to death or confinement for more
   than six months, or a punitive discharge and confinement for six months or less, automatically forfeits
   pay and allowances up to the jurisdictional limit of the court during the period of confinement or any
   subsequent parole. The convening authority, however, has the authority to waive any or all of the for-
   feitures for the period of confinement, not to exceed six months, so as to direct an involuntary allot-
   ment to provide for the support of the accused’s dependents. This is effective for all court-martial
   sentences announced on or after 1 April 1996.
       67.5.5.1. Responsibilities: Legal is responsible for processing the waiver requests approved by
       the convening authority and providing the following information to local finance offices on
       approved requests:
          67.5.5.1.1. Copy of waiver request (if submitted).
          67.5.5.1.2. Copy of approval of waiver request-should include amount approved. The amount
          should be expressed in dollar amounts.
          67.5.5.1.3. Full names of payees.
          67.5.5.1.4. Proof of dependency of payees or a certification that the payees are dependents of
          the member. If payment is to be made to someone other than the actual dependents on behalf
          of the dependents (for example, payments made to an ex-wife on behalf of minor children),
          provide confirmation that the designated payee is the appointed executor or custodian of the
          dependents.
          67.5.5.1.5. Payment information should be either electronic funds transfer (EFT) information
          or check mailing information. EFT information: SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form, or
          FMS 2231, FASTSTART Direct Deposit Form. The dependents name (or appointed executor
          or custodian’s name) must be on the account the payment is to. The payment may not be made
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1025


          to an account over which the member has signature authority. If a check will be issued, the
          mailing address the check is to be sent to must be provided.
          67.5.5.1.6. Statement signed by payee and member agreeing to notify legal and finance if the
          payee ceases being a dependent during the period these payments are made, (for example, a
          divorce during this period would cause the spouse (now the ex-spouse) to no longer be a
          dependent).
      67.5.5.2. Finance will, based on the information provided by legal and/or the member as neces-
      sary, make appropriate payment to the dependent(s). If a check will be issued, the FSO must sup-
      press the member’s pay and issue a partial to the dependents.
      67.5.5.3. The amount paid to the dependents should be whatever the waived amount is with
      deductions made only for federal, state and FICA taxes withheld from the waived portion of tax-
      able pay and allowances that are otherwise subject to forfeiture. The remaining amount should be
      paid to the member’s dependents, as directed by the convening authority. The waived portion of
      the taxable pay an allowances remains taxable income to the member, even though the payments
      are made to the member’s dependents.
      67.5.5.4. Also, finance will need to suspend existing indebtedness transactions and stop existing
      allotments. The allotments should be restarted once the waiver of forfeiture is no longer in effect.
      When a member has a total forfeiture and part of that forfeiture has been waived, the member is
      still considered to be in a no pay status; therefore, SGLI coverage would be discontinued at the
      end of the 31st day of a continuous period of military confinement imposed by court-martial sen-
      tence, which also imposes total forfeiture of pay and allowances. No deductions are required for
      periods after the SGLI coverage is discontinued. With regard to the first 31 days of coverage dur-
      ing which total forfeitures take effect, the cost of the coverage should be established as a debt of
      the member. No deductions should be made for FMDP coverage, AFRH deductions and MGIB
      reductions as the member is in a no pay status, regardless of waivers to dependents.
      67.5.5.5. In the case of existing garnishments, a copy of the waiver approval should be faxed
      immediately to DFAS-DE/FJPG, at DSN: 926-6252 or commercial (303) 676-6252, along with an
      explanation that the member has an existing garnishment that will need to be stopped for the
      period of the waiver.
          67.5.5.5.1. Send a message to DFAS-DE/FJPC to prepare a memo entry on the pay record
          indicating that because of a waiver of forfeiture, payments in the amount of $(dollar amount)
          are being directed to dependents for the time period of (state time period).
          67.5.5.5.2. DFAS-DE/FJPC will prepare memo entries as requested. DFAS-DE/FJPG will
          stop collection action on garnishments upon receipt of supporting documentation to do so.

67.6. DFAS-DE Actions. When servicing FSO has processed the transaction for forfeiture, DFAS-DE
will take action to stop the clothing allowance and to correct CP 33.

67.7. Source of Input:
   67.7.1. Staff Judge Advocate. Distributes one copy of all general and special court-martial orders
   (CMO) to servicing FSO with information copy to DFAS-DE/FJP. FSO copy is used only as an
   advance (memo) document. If the distribution of the CMO will be delayed, a message showing the
   essential contents of the CMO may be transmitted to the servicing FSO. However, a copy of the CMO
1026                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   must be distributed to the servicing FSO as soon as possible. For a summary court-martial, no CMOs
   are issued. Convening authority sends two copies of the record of trial to servicing FSO.
   67.7.2. FSO. Servicing FSO is responsible for input to DJMS. Transactions may start (01), stop (02)
   or cancel (06) MMPA entries and release (13) pay held. If a member is ordered to forfeit all pay and
   allowances, stop all allotments and all entitlements that can be stopped using base-level transactions.
   Then process an E701 for the forfeiture of base pay using a code 2 in record position (CP) 33.
   DFAS-DE will take action to stop the clothing allowance and to correct CP 33. Forward a copy of all
   documents in the FSO management files pertaining to total forfeitures to DFAS-DE/FJP per Chapter
   2, paragraph 2.4.10.
   DO NOT SUBMIT TRANSACTIONS FOR COURT-MARTIAL SENTENCES UNTIL
   APPROVED BY THE CONVENING AUTHORITY. Do not submit non-judicial punishment
   input transactions until placed in effect (see AFI 51-202). Disposition of forfeitures as a result of
   non-judicial punishment is treated the same as those as a result of courts-martial action.

67.8. Input Format. Input is shown in Figure 67.1. through Figure 67.3. Process each action as a sepa-
rate input and limit it to one of these actions:
   67.8.1. Start, Stop or Cancel Court-Martial Actions. (See Figure 67.1.)
   67.8.2. Release Pay Held During Court-Martial Appellate Action or Sentence. (See Figure 67.2.)
   67.8.3. Start or Cancel Non-judicial Punishment Action. (See Figure 67.3.)
   67.8.4. Release Detained Pay - Non-judicial Punishment. (See Figure 67.3.)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                 1027


Figure 67.1. Format to Start/Stop/Cancel Collection of Court-Martial Fine or Forfeiture.


 CHARACTER                                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       1-5       0E701/02/06


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25       YYMMDD DEDUCTION IS EFFECTIVE


     26-31       YYMMDD DEDUCTION STOPS. ZEROS FOR ACTION INDICATORS 01 AND
                 06


       32        JURISDICTION-SOURCE-UCMJ CODE:
                 1--GENERAL COURT-MARTIAL
                 2--SPECIAL COURT-MARTIAL
                 3--SUMMARY COURT-MARTIAL


       33        PUNISHMENT-MONETARY-TYPE-UCMJ:
                 1--PARTIAL FORFEITURE
                 2--TOTAL FORFEITURE
                 4—FINE

     34-35       NUMBER OF MONTHS PAY IS FORFEITED OR DETAINED


     36-41       MONTHLY AMOUNT OF FINE OR FORFEITURE OR ZEROS


     42-44       ZEROS


       47        ZERO


     48-49       NUMBER OF MONTHS PAY IS TO BE HELD OR ZEROS
1028                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    50    PAY-HELD-REASON CODE:
          E--FINES PENDING APPELLATE REVIEW
           F--FORFEITURES PENDING APPELLATE REVIEW
           H--FORFEITURES PENDING LIQUIDATION OF INDEBTEDNESS
           BLANK IF NOT APPLICABLE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         1029


Figure 67.2. Format to Release Pay Held During Court-Martial Action or Sentence.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0E713


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD THAT PAY HELD IS TO BE RELEASED FOR DISPOSITION


     26-31      BLANK


       32       APPLICABLE CODE:
                E--FINES PENDING APPELLATE REVIEW
                F--FORFEITURES PENDING APPELLATE REVIEW
                H--FORFEITURES PENDING LIQUIDATION OF INDEBTEDNESS


     33-50      BLANK


       51       APPLICABLE CODE:
                1--RELEASED TO MEMBER
                3--CREDITED TO MILITARY PAY APPROPRIATION
                4--CREDITED TO ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME


     52-57      AMOUNT OF A SPECIFIC PAY HELD WHICH IS RELEASED FOR
                DISPOSITION


                IF PAY HELD IS RELEASED TO MORE THAN ONE ENTITY, SEPARATE
                TRANSACTIONS ARE REQUIRED FOR EACH RECIPIENT (AFRH, MIL PAY
                APPROP., MEMBER) THIS TRANSACTION RELEASES PAY HELD WHEN
                PAY HELD RESULTED FROM PRIOR COURT-MARTIAL ACTION.
1030                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 67.3. REPLACED with the following:


  CHARACTER                                        DESCRIPTION
   POSITION
        1-5    0E801/06
       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
       20-25   DATE-START: YYMMDD NON-JUDICIAL PUNISHMENT BEGINS
       26-51   BLANK
        33     PUNISHMENT-MONETARY-TYPE-UCMJ CODE: 1-PARTIAL FORFEITURE
       34-35   NUMBER OF MONTHS MEMBER’S PAY IS FORFEITED OR DETAINED
       36-41   PUNSIHMENT-UCMJ-AMOUNT: MONTHLY AMOUNT OF FORFEITURE
       48-49   ZEROS




        1-5    0E813
       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME
       20-25   YYMMDD PAY HELD IS TO BE RELEASED
       26-51   BLANK
       52-57   AMOUNT OF SPECIFIC PAY HELD RELEASED FOR DISPOSITION
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1031


                                              Chapter 68

                       UNIFORMED SERVICES THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN

68.1. Description. The National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2000 (Public Law 106–65), as
amended by the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (Public Law
106-398), extended the opportunity to participate in the TSP to members of the uniformed services.

68.2. References.
   68.2.1. Tsp Website at www.tsp.gov
   68.2.2. DoDFMR Vol7A, Chap 51, Savings Programs.
   68.2.3. DoDFMR Vol7C, Chap 10, Thrift Savings Plan.

68.3. Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) Overview. The Thrift Savings Plan is a retirement savings and invest-
ment plan established for federal employees as part of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of
1986. Participation in the plan for uniformed service members is authorized by the National Defense
Authorization Act FY 2000 as amended by the National Defense Authorization Act FY 2001. The plan
offers tax-deferred advantages similar to those in an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) or 401(k) plan.
The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (FRTIB) administers the plan and publishes regulations
and operating guidance. The National Finance Center (NFC) in New Orleans, Louisiana is the TSP
recordkeeper.

68.4. Eligibility to Participate in the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP).
   68.4.1. Any member of the uniformed services serving on active duty and any member of the ready
   reserve in any pay status may participate in the UNISERV TSP in accordance with 5, U.S.C. 8440e.
   68.4.2. A member of the reserve component (Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve) who is also a
   federal civilian employee will have two TSP accounts if participating in the TSP as a military member
   and a civilian.

68.5. Open Seasons. Open Seasons were eliminated in July 2005. Historical information for the
purpose of claims adjudication is provided here.
   68.5.1. Any eligible member could elect to participate in the plan and did so by completing the TSP
   Form U-1 and taking it to the finance office for processing or enrolling via myPay.
   68.5.2. Active members had two open seasons, per calendar year, to enroll in TSP. The dates were
   established by the FRTIB and were 15 April thru 30 June and 15 October thru 31 December. Contri-
   butions from these open seasons did not begin before the last full month of the open season, referred
   to as the election period. Example: Member enrolled in TSP on 15 October, contributions were not
   deducted until the first payday in December.
   68.5.3. Members were able to stop any elective category contribution, i.e. bonus, special, or incentive
   pay at any time during a calendar year. When the member elected to stop the basic pay contribution,
   all other types stopped automatically. If the member stopped contributing from basic pay, incentive
   pay, or special pay during an open season, he/she was not eligible to start contributing again from that
   category of pay until the next open season. If the member stopped contributing from basic pay, incen-
1032                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   tive pay, or special pay "outside" an open season, he/she was not be able to restart contributing from
   that category of pay until the second open season following the termination. The member could start,
   stop or restart bonus pay contributions at any time, provided the member had an election for basic pay
   contribution in effect.
   68.5.4. For information on establishing effective dates, see paragraph 68.21.2.

68.6. Member Transfers.
   68.6.1. New members accessed on and after 9 Oct 01, including those with a break in service, may
   elect to enroll in the TSP within 60 days after joining. A member is deemed to have joined the uni-
   formed service on the date the member becomes eligible to receive basic pay or compensation under
   section 206 of Title 37. If a member decides to begin participation during this 60-day period, the first
   contribution must be taken the first full pay period after the election is received by the finance office.
   Keep in mind that no contributions will be taken prior to 1 Jan 2002. New members, who do not enroll
   during this 60-day window, can elect at a future time.
   68.6.2. Active to reserve: the TSP election can be presented to the member’s gaining servicing office
   or accomplished via myPay to continue TSP contribution/loan payments without interruption.
   68.6.3. Reserve to Active: The TSP election can be presented to the member’s gaining servicing orga-
   nization or accomplished via myPay to continue TSP contributions/loan payments without interrup-
   tion.
   68.6.4. One Branch of Service to another Branch of Service: The TSP election can be presented to the
   member’s gaining servicing organization or accomplished via myPay to continue TSP contributions/
   loan payments without interruption.
   68.6.5. Contributions may be restarted by either completion of a new TSP-U-1 or by the member pre-
   senting his/her LES showing contributions being withheld and using the former percentage rate. If the
   member wishes to make any changes from the previous withholding, a new TSP-U-1 must be accom-
   plished. If the member wishes to continue contributions at the former withholding rate, have the mem-
   ber write "I wish to continue my TSP withholding(s) at the rates as stated on this LES" on a current
   LES. Have the member sign and date the LES, make a copy for the member, and include the one the
   member signed with the quarterly document submission (Records Center Handbook available on FTP
   site for reference) to the DFRC (see paragraph 2.4.6.2.3. of this manual.)

68.7. Contributions.
   68.7.1. No contributions will be taken prior to 1 Jan 2002.
   68.7.2. All contributions must be made to the NFC via payroll deduction. The maximum contribution
   of basic pay may not exceed 7 percent for any pay period in calendar year (CY) 2002. This limit will
   be increased to 8 percent in 2003, 9 percent in 2004, 10 percent in 2005 and an unlimited percent in
   2006 and later. This unlimited amount may not exceed the IRS established cap. Members may also
   choose to contribute up to 100 percent of special and incentive pays and bonuses. Members must be
   contributing from basic pay in order to contribute from any other pays/bonuses.
   68.7.3. Service Matching Contributions. Matching is not currently funded. This subparagraph will
   be expanded when matching is available.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1033


68.8. Investment Options. TSP contributions deducted from the member's pay each pay period (i.e.
monthly) are forwarded by DFAS-DE, to the National Finance Center (NFC) in New Orleans, Louisiana.
The NFC invests member contributions into the 'G' fund immediately upon receipt. It is the member's
responsibility to indicate to the NFC the contribution allocation if the member desires contributions go to
funds other than the "G" fund. There are a total of five (5) choices available to members. Information on
all five funds can be found at the TSP website mentioned in paragraph 68.2. above.

68.9. Interfund Transfers. This option of the TSP is available through the NFC only. DFAS cannot
move monies already contributed by the member from one investment fund to another. This is a member
self-service option and is between the member and the NFC (see References in paragraph 68.2.).

68.10. Tax Information.
   68.10.1. The dollar amount of TSP member contributions (tax deferred) is limited by the Internal
   Revenue Code (IRC). The current elective deferral limit (see IRC section 402(g)) is $11,000 for 2002,
   and legislation already allows an incremental increase of $1,000/yr to this limit, not to exceed $15,000
   in CY 2006.
   68.10.2. Contributions from combat zone tax exempt pay (IRC section 415(c)) do not count toward
   the $11,000 tax deferred limit, but tax exempt contributions plus tax deferred contributions cannot
   exceed $40,000 for a calendar year. Example: member contributes a $5,000 SRB to TSP in Septem-
   ber and that puts his tax deferred total to $10,000 for calendar year 02. In October 2002, the member
   is in a CZTE area and elects career status bonus (CSB). The member's $30,000 tax free CSB makes
   the total contributed $40,000 ($30,000 tax exempt plus $10,000 tax deferred). Member cannot con-
   tribute any more to TSP for 2002.
       68.10.2.1. Example : Member elects 7% base pay, 100% of his board certification pay (FID 19)
       which is also TSPable as a special pay on DJMS Table 123. (Look at the category code which
       equals ‘S’.) Elects 100% of variable special pay (FID 24) which is also TSPable as a special pay
       as the category code also equals ‘S’.
           68.10.2.1.1. Assuming a monthly base pay rate of $4,696.20, monthly board cert pay of
           $291.66, and a monthly entitlement of variable special pay of $916.66 the following is true:


                      4696.20 X 7%       = 328.72
                        291.66 X 100% = 291.66
                        916.66 X 100% = 916.66 =
                                   $1,537.06 Monthly deferred TSP contribution


           68.10.2.1.2. $1,537.06 X 7 months = $10,759.42. In the eight month the member will exceed
           the current (2002) $11,000 deferred limit by limit by $1,296.48 and this amount will be
           returned to his pay.
           68.10.2.1.3. Now lets put this same member in a combat zone in the month of July, the sev-
           enth month of the year, and see how his deductions are to be displayed. There are no changes
           to his contributions percentages and a change in pay is equal to the entitlement of imminent
1034                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


           danger pay of $150/mo, and he is due an annual installment of additional special pay (ASP) of
           $15,000 in July.
           68.10.2.1.4. The TSP contributions are computed as follows:
           $1537.06 X 6 = $9,222.36 TSP deferred contributions (Jan thru Jun) and here comes July.


              BP             328.74
              SP             291.66
              SP             916.66
              SP             150.00
              SP           15,000.00 (This is an installment that is catagorized as spec pay vs bonus.)


           68.10.2.1.5. The member will contribute 5,532.90 in exempt TSP contributions and $1,777.64
           in deferred contributions.
           68.10.2.1.6. Keep in mind that the member has a $40,000 annual TSP exempt contribution
           limit when in a combat zone. In July he has reached his $11,000 deferred limit and has a total
           of $16,532.90 towards the $40,000 exempt limit. (The $11,000 is part of the $40,000.)
           68.10.2.1.7. The financial services offices are not financial advisors and must allow the mem-
           ber to make his own financial decisions.

68.11. The TSP Loan Process is Strictly Between the Member and the NFC. Direct members to the
TSP website for questions and answers and to NFC for loan application and processing of a TSP loan.
Members may have a total of two loans at any given time for the following purposes:
   68.11.1. Residential (Limited to one)
   68.11.2. General Purpose (may have up to two)
       68.11.2.1. The minimum amount a member can borrow is $1000 and the maximum is $50,000.
       Loan repayments are accomplished by payroll deduction only and are initiated by NFC via data
       transmission to DJMS. DJMS-AC uses the allotment system to withhold the deduction amount
       for repayment after the data file is received from the NFC. Neither DFAS nor the FSO can start or
       stop this type of allotment.

68.12. Breakage. By law, members are entitled to "breakage" on certain contributions that, as a result of
agency error, were not invested when they should have been (and which the member did not otherwise
have use of). Currently, breakage does not apply until the contribution is more than 30 days late being
sent to NFC. This process compensates members for agency error and must be requested via a claim pro-
cess. However, members are not entitled to breakage on contributions that were not actually deducted
from their pay, but they may be entitled to make-up contributions. Breakage is computed by NFC.

68.13. Make-up Contributions. Members are entitled to make-up contributions if the TSP form was not
processed in a timely manner. However, because the member had use of their money no breakage will be
paid. Example: member has elected to make contributions via the TSP-U-1, the form is not processed in
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1035


a timely manner, and no contributions are withheld from the member's pay. The member had use of his
money so no breakage is payable.
   68.13.1. In the case of a member who is participating in TSP, is entitled to a bonus, and has elected a
   percentage to withhold from bonuses, but for some reason, the bonus payment is made later, the TSP
   attributable to the bonus should be applied to the month the bonus was earned, not the month paid. For
   members who are entitled to combat zone tax exclusion (CZTE), this is a recurring problem. Exam-
   ple: Member entitled to a bonus in October 2006, but payment is delayed (through no fault of the
   member) until December 2006. In October, the member was in a combat zone and, therefore, entitled
   to exempt contributions.
   68.13.2. Advise the member to write a check to cover the TSP contribution that was not withheld
   from his/her pay. Once the check is received by the finance office, establish a CMS case and refer it to
   the TSP box, advising that the check has been received and amount of the check. Additionally, due to
   the nature of TSP, call DFAS-JMSB as soon as the check is received in finance so that DFAS has time
   (at least 2-3 days before cutoff) to send the funds to TSP on the member’s behalf and adjust the TSP
   and taxable wages for the month in which the member was paid.

68.14. Error Corrections. Error notification will be provided on the DTR to the input source as done
currently, and will require research and re-input. NFC rejects will be processed at central site. These may
require information/coordination with the member's servicing finance office.

68.15. Claims Procedures. Members must alert their Financial Service Office (FSO) of any discrepancy
with regards to their TSP withholdings/earnings within one year of notification of the discrepancy. As it
is the member’s responsibility to read and validate the monthly leave and earnings statement the 1st noti-
fication received by the member would be the month in which the transaction should have occurred and
didn’t, or occurred incorrectly.
   68.15.1. The FSO determines the member is making a claim to request correction of an agency error
   (versus an administrative error). If the claim is made within the required one-year timeframe, the pay
   office will assist member in completing DD FM 2851, request to correct thrift saving plan (TSP)
   agency error. The form can be located at the following: http://www.dior.whs.mil/icdhome/form-
   info/wwwinfo1page2493.htm. The FSO will forward the claim form to DFAS-PMJFD/DE, 6760 E.
   Irvington Pl., Denver, Colorado 80233-5000 for adjudication.
   68.15.2. The following are examples of agency errors for which a claim may be appropriate:
       68.15.2.1. The member enrolled in TSP and deductions were not withheld, a different percentage
       amount was withheld, or the deduction was taken from a different category of pay than elected.
       68.15.2.2. In the case of the member receiving his semiannual statement from the National
       Finance Center (NFC), the statement does not reflect proper timely posting of contribution to the
       account.
       68.15.2.3. Member elected to stop TSP contributions and deductions continued beyond the first
       full pay period after receipt of the form.
   68.15.3. DFAS-DE will adjudicate the DD FM 2851 within approximately 30 days of receipt.
1036                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       68.15.3.1. The adjudication process will be performed by a group of three individuals designated
       by the director of military pay. Two of the group will be from other than the TSP operations
       office.
       68.15.3.2. The adjudication group convenes each month. The group will review all forms
       received prior to that month, and will ensure the member, FSO, and DFS-PMJFD/DE is notified of
       the results.
       68.15.3.3. DFAS-PMJFD/DE will coordinate with the member when it’s determined that makeup
       contributions are valid and process the appropriate transaction(s).
   68.15.4. FSOs are required to keep a log, by calendar year, of the DD FM 2851 sent to DFAS with a
   minimum reference to the member’s name, SSAN, date sent and brief description of the claim (from
   item 12 of the form).

68.16. Owners of the Program. AF/DPRC, ANG/DPF, and AF/REP are the owners of this program.
Please refer to USAF Uniformed Services Thrift Savings Plan implementing policy message as refer-
enced above. The member's finance office is not to provide investment advice.

68.17. Source and Method of Input. There are 2 ways for a member’s TSP contributions to be updated.
Members can control their TSP themselves by taking action in myPay. In the case of a member who does
not have access to myPay, Finance can take action based on the documentation provided by the member.

68.18. FSO Responsibilities.
   68.18.1. Recommend that the member access myPay and process the start, stop, change, or cancel
   transactions.
   68.18.2. To collect and process “Claim for Reimbursement of Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) Breakage
   and Make-up Contribution's” (new DD Form in coordination) from the member. These forms and
   required associated documents will be forwarded to DFAS-PMJ/DE, 6760 E. Irvington PL, Denver,
   CO 80279-3000 for processing.

68.19. Processing Form TSP-U-1. To process TSP contribution elections:
   68.19.1. Ensure that the election was made properly.
       68.19.1.1. A contribution election must be a whole percentage and cannot exceed the member
       contribution limit.
       68.19.1.2. The TSP-U-1 is the required source document.
       68.19.1.3. Ensure the member fills out sections I-IV and signs the form.
       68.19.1.4. Notify the member if the election cannot be processed.
   68.19.2. Establish the effective date of the election.
       68.19.2.1. If a member makes a contribution election during the initial (new accession) 60-day
       window, the agency must make it effective no later than the first full pay period after the election
       is received.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1037


       68.19.2.2. An open season election to begin or change contributions cannot be made effective
       before the last month of the open season period. If the contribution election is received by the
       finance office before the election period, it must be made effective the beginning of the election
       period. If the contribution election is received by the finance office during the election period, it
       must be made effective no later than the beginning of the first full pay period after its receipt. See
       paragraph 68.21.2. under the definition section.
       68.19.2.3. Inter-Service and Intra-Service transfers (see paragraph 68.6.).
   68.19.3. Finance completes section V of the TSP-U-1:
       68.19.3.1. Block 17: 3800 0001
       68.19.3.2. Block 18: see paragraph 68.21.2.; effective date is determined by date received in the
       finance office
       68.19.3.3. Block 19: Required only if the member has completed section III of the form. Member
       may resume contributing during the next open season if contributions are terminated WITHIN an
       open season; if outside an open season period, the member must wait until the second open season
       following termination of contributions.
       68.19.3.4. Block 20: Service Representative’s signature accepting the TSP-U-1 form.
   68.19.4. Notify the member of the effective date of the deduction from pay. Ensure the member
   receives a copy of the Form TSP-U-1, after the agency completes section V, “for employing office use
   only”. Include the original in the quarterly document submission to the Denver Federal Records Cen-
   ter (records center handbook available on FTP site for reference) as required in para 2.4.6. of this man-
   ual, and, keep the FSO retained copy for at least six months. Agencies must have the capability to
   retrieve TSP information, as it may need to be provided to another service if a member transfers, or to
   an appropriate agency official if a member files a claim for error correction.
   68.19.5. Input the D1 transaction and verify that the information, as input, is correct, using the
   TSP-U-1. Ensure customer service reviews and verifies that the input was done correctly, to prevent
   breakage fees, claims, etc. Any elections processed incorrectly must be re-input as soon as possible to
   prevent erroneous deductions.
   68.19.6. The member fills out a new TSP-U-1, sections I, III and IV, to terminate contributions;
   finance completes section V.

68.20. Separations/Retirement Procedures. Separation and retirement transactions should flow auto-
matically from current transaction processing. However, DJMS-AC stops TSP contributions the month
prior to the date of separation. If the member wants contributions to be withheld during the final month of
active duty, establish a CMS case and refer it to the TSP box. Include the TSP contribution when perform-
ing the pay comp at separation and ensure the TSP is deducted before making final payment to the mem-
ber.

68.21. Definitions.
   68.21.1. “As of” date is used by payroll offices on payment records that report makeup and late con-
   tributions. It is the pay date for which TSP contributions should have been made.
1038                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   68.21.2. The effective date of the contribution is posted in the start date field of the D101 and is
   derived by the date the elections are received by the FSO. For the current upcoming open season the
   following is true. Member signs and submits the TSP U-1 to FSO anytime from 15 October through
   30 November and the FSO submits the D101 for update of the members MMPA, the start date of TSP
   contributions is 1 December. If submitted to FSO during the month of December the start date is sub-
   mitted as 1 January. No starts after January.
   68.21.3. Open Seasons: Open seasons were eliminated in 2005, but were previously 15 April thru 30
   June and 15 October thru 31 December.
   68.21.4. Air Force Payroll Office Numbers:


              - DFAS-DE       3800 0001 (AC)
                              3801 0001 (RC)
   68.21.5. Attributable pay date is used on negative adjustment records that remove erroneous contribu-
   tions previously reported and on recharacterization records which change the tax characterization of
   contributions previously reported. It is the pay date of the original (erroneous or erroneously charac-
   terized) contribution or, if the original contribution was a makeup or late contribution, the “as of” date
   for the original contribution.
   68.21.6. Current pay date is the service’s established pay date for its payroll submission. It is reported
   on the header record, which accompanies the submission.
   68.21.7. Employee contributions are TSP contributions that are deducted from compensation paid to
   uniformed service members. See TSP Bulletin 01-U-3, Uniformed Services Participation in the Thrift
   Savings Plan, dated July 19, 2001, for information about the types of pay from which employee con-
   tributions may be deducted.
   68.21.8. Late contributions are employee contributions that were timely deducted from a member’s
   pay but were not timely reported to the TSP and, if applicable, attributable matching contributions;
   and resubmitted contributions that may have been reported on time but were not processed by the
   NFC when originally reported because the payment records contained errors.
   68.21.9. Makeup contributions are contributions that should have been deducted from a member’s
   pay (or, in the case of attributable matching contributions, charged to a service’s appropriation) on an
   earlier pay date but are being deducted (or charged) for the current pay date.
   68.21.10. Matching contributions are contributions made by the uniformed service to the TSP
   accounts of its members who are entitled to such contributions. See TSP Bulletin 01-U-3 for more
   information about matching contributions.
   68.21.11. Ordinary tax-deferred contributions are employee contributions that are made from com-
   pensation not subject to the Federal income tax exclusion at 26 U.S.C. §112 (applicable to compensa-
   tion for active service in a month in which a member serves in a combat zone).
   68.21.12. Payroll submission is a payroll office’s entire submission of one or more records (Member
   Data Records and/or payment records) and the journal voucher (TSP-2).
   68.21.13. Recharacterization is the correction of the tax characterization (i.e., tax deferred or
   tax-exempt) of employee contributions previously submitted.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                1039


   68.21.14. Tax-exempt contributions are employee contributions that are made from compensation
   subject to the Federal income tax exclusion at 26 U.S.C. §112 applicable to compensation for active
   service in the month in which a member serves in a combat zone.
   68.21.15. Posting date: is the date transactions are credited or debited to a participant’s account.
   68.21.16. Pay period – as defined by law
   68.21.17. Election period – is the last calendar month of the open season.

68.22. Catch Up Contributions for TSP Participants Age 50 and Older.
   68.22.1. Overview. Pl 107-304, 27 Nov 2002, permits eligible TSP participants, who are age 50 or
   older, to make tax-deferred ‘catch-up’ contributions from their taxable basic pay to their TSP
   accounts. The annual limitations for contributions are: 2003 = $2,000; 2004 = $3,000; 2005 =
   $4,000; 2006 and after = $5,000. Because these contributions must be made from pre-tax dollars,
   catch-up contributions cannot be made from basic pay that has been excluded from taxation due to
   service in a combat zone. These contributions must be made through payroll deduction. Participants
   can make, change, or stop a catch-up election at any time, beginning in or after the year in which they
   turn age 50 (not subject to open season rules). Elections are made in whole dollar amounts, up to the
   yearly limit. Because the annual limits change each year, the member must make a new election each
   calendar year. An election can be made effective 1 August 2003 and later.
   68.22.2. Eligibility. A member must be in pay status and must be contributing, either the maximum
   TSP contribution percentage of basic pay, or an amount which will result in his or her reaching the
   IRS deferral limit by the end of the relevant year. The member must be at least 50 years old in the year
   the catch-up contributions are made. The member must not be in the 6-month non-contribution period
   following receipt of a financial hardship in-service withdrawal.

NOTES:
     1. A member who is currently contributing to both civilian and uniformed services TSP accounts
        can make separate catch-up contributions to each account, so long as the total for both
        accounts combined does not exceed the annual catch-up limit. NFC will check for excess
        contributions and will contact the member directly if excess contributions have been made.
       2. A member, who makes catch-up contributions to the TSP and a private sector pension plan,
          must ensure that the contributions, made to both plans combined, do not exceed the annual
          catch-up limit. If a member does exceed the limit, he or she may request a refund of the
          excess contributions directly from NFC.
   68.22.3. FSO Actions. Process starts/stops immediately. Ensure member has an open M0 on the
   MMPA. TSP catch-up workaround is to process a DS01 debt transaction (see Figure 70.13. for the
   DS01 format). Follow normal DS01 processing with exceptions as noted below:
1040                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FIRST SCREEN:


       APPROP-CODE-DEPT              [57]                   “57” FOR AIR FORCE


       AMT-SPEC-INDEBT               [               ]      TOTAL AMOUNT ELECTED FOR
                                     CURRENT CALENDAR YEAR (CY)
                                     (FOUND ON THE TSP-U-1-C (0 FILL
                                     TO THE LEFT)) CANNOT BE MORE
                                     THAN $2000 FOR CY 2003
       AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MOQ[                ]       MONTHLY AMOUNT REQUIRED TO
                                     REACH TOTAL AMOUNT ELECTED
                                     IN AMT-SPEC-INDEBT FIELD ABOVE
                                     AND TIMEFRAME REQUIRED
       INDEBT-TYPE           [H]             ‘H’ USED FOR TSP CATCH-UP


SECOND SCREEN:


       APPROP-CODE                   [57 F38827001]         LEAVE BLANK ALL REMAINING
                                     FIELDS ON THIS SCREEN
       ADSN                                  [380100]

68.23. Address Changes.
   68.23.1. Separatees. If the individual has separated, he/she can complete a change of address by going
   to TSP.gov and selecting "Your TSP Address (for separated participants only)."
   68.23.2. Members. For members still in the Air Force, but not currently participating in TSP, address
   changes must be accomplished by DFAS-JMSB/DE. When a member requests a new PIN, it is mailed
   to the existing address in the TSP account record. If the current mailing address is incorrect, the mem-
   ber must request an address change before requesting a new PIN. The FSO establishes a CMS case
   and refers it to the TSP box, indicating the need for a change of address
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007              1041


Figure 68.1. - Officer TSP with CZTE.
1042                                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.2. - D101 - TSP Start. (Header).

D101 - START - TSP


       SSAN          [---------]
       NAME          [-----]
       DATE-START                  [------]                   PERCENT-BASE-PAY             [---]
       PERCENT-SPECIAL PAY                 [---]              PERCENT-INCENTIVE-PAY        [---]
       PERCENT-BONUS               [---]
       EMPLOYMENT-CODE                     [-]                EFF-DATE          [------]
       SPCL-RETENTION-IND                  [-]                OPEN-SEASON-INDICATOR                      [-]
       1ST-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST                 [-------------------------]
       2ND-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST                 [-------------------------]
       3RD-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST                 [-------------------------]
       ADRS-MAIL-CITY              [--------------------]
       ADRS-MAIL-ST/CNTRY                  [---]              ADRS-MAIL-ZIP                [---------]
       DATE-OF-BIRTH               [------]
                                           INPUT SOURCE                  [--]
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                               1043


Figure 68.2. D101 - TSP Start (Header).

D101 - TSP Start (Header)
     Card
   Column(s)                  Data Name                                                  Data
        1       Header Record Indicator                  Constant “C”
       2-3      Format Identifier                        Constant “D1”
       4-5      Action Indicator                         Constant “01”
      6-14      Social Security Number                   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
     15-19      Last Name                                Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of
                                                         the last name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth
                                                         position will be space filled. If the last name is only three letters,
                                                         space fill the fourth position, the first letter of the first name in
                                                         the fifth position (example ENG G).
     20-25      Start Date (Displayed as Effective Date) Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section V, Line 18. Must be numeric
                                                         (0-9) and must be in “YYMMDD” format.
     26-28      Basic Pay %                              Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section II, Line 7. Must be numeric
                                                         001 through 007.
     29-33      Filler                                   Space filled.
     34-36      Special Pay %                            Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section II, Line 9. Must be numeric
                                                         000 through 100. The member must be participating with basic
                                                         pay to be entitled.
     37-41      Filler                                   Space filled.
     42-44      Incentive Pay %                          Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section II, Line 8. Must be numeric
                                                         000 through 100. The member must be participating with basic
                                                         pay to be entitled.
     45-49      Filler                                   Space filled.
     50-52      Bonus %                                  Obtained from TSP-U-I Section II, Line 10. Must be numeric
                                                         000 through 100. The member must be participating with basic
                                                         pay to be entitled.
     53-57      Filler                                   Space filled.
      58        TSP Status Code                          Constant “Y”
      59        Employment Code                          Space filled.
     60-65      Effective Date (Displayed as Receipt     Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section V, Line 21. Must be numeric 0
                Date)                                    through 9. Must be in “YYMMDD” format.
      66        Special Retention Indicator              Must be “Y” if member authorized matching contributions;
                                                         otherwise “N”.
      67        Open Season Indicator                    Must be “N” if new accession enrollment or special
                                                         circumstance enrollment. Otherwise “Y” for open season.
     68-71      Office Number                            Service ADSN (ISI) inputting transaction.
     72-73      Input Source                             Input source initials.
     74-75      Cycle                                    1st position must be alpha or numeric and cannot equal “X”. 2nd
                                                         position must be numeric.
      76        At Symbol                                “@” (Constant)
     77-80      Transaction Number                       Must be numeric, greater than zero starting with 0001 and
                                                         increased by 1 for every 320-byte record. (320 bytes is equal the
                                                         bytes included in the D101 Header (H), and the 3 Trailer Cards
                                                         D101 (T1, T2, T3). Card columns 68-80 is constant data on all
                                                         trailer cards for the D101.
1044                                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.2. - (Continued) D101 (Trailer 1).

D101 (Trailer 1) - TSP Start

      Card
    Column(s)                  Data Name                                             Data
         1          Trail Record Indicator        Constant “1”
        2-3         Format Identifier             Constant “D1”
        4-5         Action Indicator              Constant “01”
       6-14         Social Security Number        Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
       15-19        Last Name                     Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                                  name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                                  space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                                  position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                                  ENG G).
       20-44        1st Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 20 cannot contain
                                                  a space if data populates these positions.
       45-67        2nd Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 45 cannot be a
                                                  space if data populates these positions. If the address length does not
                                                  necessitate a second line, space fill positions 45-67.
       68-80        Constant Data                 Card columns 68-80 is constant data on all trailer cards for the D101.
                                                  See D101 header card for instructions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                              1045


Figure 68.2. - (Continued) D101 (Trailer 2).

D101 (Trailer 2) - TSP Start

      Card
    Column(s)                  Data Name                                             Data
         1          Trail Record Indicator        Constant “2”
        2-3         Format Identifier             Constant “D1”
        4-5         Action Indicator              Constant “01”
       6-14         Social Security Number        Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
      15-19         Last Name                     Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                                  name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                                  space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                                  position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                                  ENG G).
      20-44         3rd Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 20 cannot contain
                                                  a space if data populates these positions. If the address length does not
                                                  necessitate a third line, space fill positions 20-44.
      45-64         City                          Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 45 cannot contain
                                                  a space.
      65-67         Filler                        Space filled.
      68-80         Constant Data                 Card columns 68-80 is constant data on all trailer cards for the D101.
                                                  See D101 header card for instructions.
1046                                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.2. - (Continued) D101 (Trailer 3).

D101 (Trailer 3) - TSP Start

      Card
    Column(s)                  Data Name                                        Data
         1          Trail Record Indicator   Constant “3”
        2-3         Format Identifier        Constant “D1”
        4-5         Action Indicator         Constant “01”
       6-14         Social Security Number   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
       15-19        Last Name                Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                             name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                             space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                             position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                             ENG G).
       20-22        State                    Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. First two positions must be
                                             alpha (A-Z), numeric (0-9). Left justify. Space only allowed in
                                             position 22.
       23-31        Zip Code                 Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                             numeric (0-9), or spaces. If only the first five positions contain data,
                                             space fill the last four positions.
       32-37        Date of Birth            Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 5. Must be numeric (0-9) and
                                             must be in “YYMMDD” format.
       38-67        Filler                   Spaced filled.
       68-80        Constant Data            Card columns 68-80 is constant data on all trailer cards for the D101.
                                             See D101 header card for instructions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         1047


Figure 68.3. - D102 - TSP Stop (Header).

D102 – STOP - TSP


     SSAN           [---------]
     NAME           [-----]
     DATE-STOP                    [------]
     EFF-DATE                     [------]
     1ST-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST          [-------------------------]
     2ND-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST          [-------------------------]
     3RD-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST          [-------------------------]
     ADRS-MAIL-CITY               [--------------------]
     ADRS-MAIL-ST/CNTRY           [---]
     ADRS-MAIL-ZIP                [---------]
     DATE-OF-BIRTH                [------]
                                                                INPUT SOURCE[--]
1048                                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.3. - D102 - TSP Stop (Header).

D102 - TSP Stop (Header)

      Card
    Column(s)                 Data Name                                             Data
        1         Header Record Indicator        Constant “C”
        2-3       Format Identifier              Constant “D1”
        4-5       Action Indicator               Constant “02”
       6-14       Social Security Number         Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
       15-19      Last Name                      Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                                 name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                                 space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                                 position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                                 ENG G).
       20-25      Filler                         Space filled.
       26-31      Stop Date                      Derived from TSP-U-1, Section V, Line 21, Receipt date. Stop will be
                                                 the month after the TSP-U-1 is received by the FSO.
        32        TSP Status Code                Will populate as a “T” for terminated contributions.
        33        Filler                         Space filled.
       34-39      Effective Date (Displayed in   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section V, Line 21. Must be numeric 0 thru 9.
                  Receipt Date)                  Must be in “YYMMDD” format.
       40-67      Filler                         Space filled.
       68-71      Office Number                  Service ADSN (ISI) inputting transaction
       72-73      Input Source                   Input source initials.
       74-75      Cycle                          1st position must be alpha or numeric and cannot equal “X”. 2nd
                                                 position must be numeric.
        76        AT Symbol                      “@” (Constant)
       77-80      Transaction Number             Must be numeric greater than zero starting with 0001 and increased by
                                                 1 for every 320 byte record. (320 bytes is equal the bytes included in
                                                 the D102 Header (H), and the 3 Trailer Cards D102 (T1, T2, T3). Card
                                                 columns 68-80 is constant data on all trailer cards for the D102.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                              1049


Figure 68.3. - (Continued) D102 (Trailer 1).

D102 - (Trailer 1) - TSP Stop

      Card
    Column(s)                   Data Name                                            Data
         1          Trail Record Indicator        Constant “1”
        2-3         Format Identifier             Constant “D1”
        4-5         Action Indicator              Constant “02”
       6-14         Social Security Number        Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
      15-19         Last Name                     Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                                  name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                                  space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                                  position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                                  ENG G).
      20-44         1st Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Positions 20 cannot
                                                  contain a space if data populates these positions.
      45-67         2nd Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 45 cannot be a
                                                  space if data populates these positions. If the address length does not
                                                  necessitate a second line, space fill positions 45-67.
      68-80         Common Data                   Common Data. See D102 Header Card instructions.
1050                                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.3. - (Continued) D102 (Trailer 2).

D102 - (Trailer 2) - TSP Stop

      Card
    Column(s)                   Data Name                                         Data
         1          Trail Record Indicator        Constant “2”
        2-3         Format Identifier             Constant “D1”
        4-5         Action Indicator              Constant “02”
       6-14         Social Security Number        Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
       15-19        Last Name                     Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of
                                                  the last name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth
                                                  position will be space filled. If the last name is only three letters,
                                                  space fill the fourth position, the first letter of the first name in
                                                  the fifth position. (example ENG G).
       20-44        3rd Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Positions 20 cannot
                                                  contain a space if data populates these positions. If the address
                                                  length does not necessitate a third line, space fill positions 20-44.
       45-64        City                          Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                  numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 45 cannot
                                                  contain a space if any part of the address fields are populated.
       65-67        Filler                        Space filled.
       68-80        Common Data                   Common Data. See D102 Header Card instructions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                         1051


Figure 68.3. - (Continued) D102 (Trailer 3).

D102 - (Trailer 3) - TSP Stop

      Card
    Column(s)                   Data Name                                       Data
         1          Trail Record Indicator   Constant “3”
        2-3         Format Identifier        Constant “D1”
        4-5         Action Indicator         Constant “02”
       6-14         Social Security Number   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
      15-19         Last Name                Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                             name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                             space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                             position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                             ENG G).
      20-22         State                    Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. First two positions must be
                                             alpha (A-Z), numeric (0-9). Left justify. Space only allowed in
                                             position 22.
      23-31         Zip Code                 Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                             numeric (0-9) or spaces. If only the first five positions contain data,
                                             space fill the last four positions.
      32-37         Date of Birth            Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 5. Must be numeric (0-9) and
                                             must be in “YYMMDD” format.
      38-67         Filler                   Space filled.
      68-80         Common Data              Common Data. See D102 Header Card instructions
1052                                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.4. - D104 - TSP Change (Header).

D104 - CHANGE - TSP


       SSAN         [---------]
       NAME         [-----]
       DATE-START                 [------]                   PERCENT-BASE-PAY             [---]
       PERCENT-SPECIAL PAY                [---]              PERCENT-INCENTIVE-PAY        [---]
       PERCENT-BONUS              [---]
       EMPLOYMENT-CODE                    [-]                EFF-DATE          [------]
       SPCL-RETENTION-IND                 [-]                OPEN-SEASON-INDICATOR                      [-]
       1ST-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST                [-------------------------]
       2ND-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST                [-------------------------]
       3RD-ADDRESS-MAIL-ST                [-------------------------]
       ADRS-MAIL-CITY             [--------------------]
       ADRS-MAIL-ST/CNTRY                 [---]              ADRS-MAIL-ZIP                [---------]
       DATE-OF-BIRTH              [------]
                                          INPUT SOURCE                  [--]
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                            1053


Figure 68.4. - D104 - TSP Change (Header).

D104 - TSP Change (Header)
     Card
   Column(s)              Data Name                                                   Data
       1         Header Record Indicator        Constant “C”
      2-3        Format Identifier              Constant “D1”
      4-5        Action Indicator               Constant “04”
     6-14        Social Security Number         Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
     15-19       Last Name                      Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                                name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                                space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                                position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                                ENG G).
      20-25      Start Date (Displayed as       Obtained from the TSP-U-1 Section IV, Line 18. Must be numeric
                 Effective Date)                (0-9) and be in YYMMDD” format.
      26-28      Basic Pay %                    Obtained from the TSP-U-1 Section 2, Line 7. Must be numeric and in
                                                whole percent. Blank if not changing Basic Pay %.
      29-33      Filler                         Space filled.
      34-36      Special Pay %                  Obtained from the TSP-U-1 Section 2, Line 9. Must be numeric and in
                                                whole percents 0-100. The member must be contributing from basic
                                                pay to be entitled. Blank if not changing Special Pay %.
      37-41      Filler                         Space filled.
      42-44      Incentive Pay %                Obtained form the TSP-U-1 Section 2, Line 8. Must be numeric and in
                                                whole percents 0-100. The member must be contributing from basic
                                                pay to be entitled. Blank if not changing Incentive Pay %.
      45-49      Filler                         Space filled.
      50-52      Bonus Pay %                    Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section 2, Line 10. Must be numeric and in
                                                whole percents 0-100. The member must be contributing from basic
                                                pay to be entitled.
      53-57      Filler                         Space filled.
       58        TSP Status Code                Will populate as a “Y” for contributions.
       59        Employment Code                Will populate as a blank.
      60-65      Effective Date (Displayed as   Obtained from the TSP-U-1 Section V, line 21. Must be numeric 0
                 Receipt Date)                  through 9. Must be in “YYMMDD” format.
       66        Special Retention Indicator.   Input “Y” if member is authorized special retention, “N” if not
                                                authorized.
       67        Open Season Indicator          If this transaction is being processed within an Open Season, input “Y”,
                                                else “N”.
      68-71      Office Number                  Service ADSN (ISI) inputting transaction.
      72-73      Input Source                   Input source initials.
      74-75      Cycle                          1st position must be alpha or numeric and cannot equal “X”. 2nd
                                                position must be numeric.
       76        AT Symbol                      “@” Constant.
      77-80      Transaction Number             Must be numeric greater than zero starting with 0001 and increased by
                                                1 for every 320 byte record. (320 bytes is equal to the bytes included in
                                                the D104 Header, and the (3) Trailer Cards of the D104 (T1, T2, T3).
                                                Card columns 68-80 contain constant data on all trailer cards for the
                                                D104.
1054                                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.4. - (Continued) D104 (Trailer 1).

D104 - (Trailer 1) - TSP Change

      Card
    Column(s)               Data Name                                               Data
        1          Trail Record Indicator        Constant “1”
        2-3        Format Identifier             Constant “D1”
        4-5        Action Indicator              Constant “04”
       6-14        Social Security Number        Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
       15-19       Last Name                     Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                                 name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                                 space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                                 position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                                 ENG G).
       20-44       1st Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                 numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 20 cannot contain
                                                 a space if data populates these positions.
       45-67       2nd Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                 numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 45 cannot be a
                                                 space if data populates these positions. If the address length does not
                                                 necessitate a second line, space fill positions 45-67.
       68-80       Common Data                   Card columns 68-80 contain constant data on all trailer cards for the
                                                 D104. See D104 Header card for instructions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                             1055


Figure 68.4. - (Continued) D104 (Trailer 2).

D104 - (Trailer 2) - TSP Change

      Card
    Column(s)               Data Name                                               Data
        1          Trail Record Indicator        Constant “2”
       2-3         Format Identifier             Constant “D1”
       4-5         Action Indicator              Constant “04”
       6-14        Social Security Number        Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
      15-19        Last Name                     Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                                 name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                                 space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                                 position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                                 ENG G).
      20-44        3rd Line of Mailing Address   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                 numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 20 cannot contain
                                                 a space if data populates these positions. If the address length does not
                                                 necessitate a third line, space fill positions 20-44.
      45-64        City                          Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                                 numeric (0-9), spaces or special characters. Position 45 cannot contain
                                                 a space if any part of the address fields are populated.
      65-67        Filler                        Space filled.
      68-80        Common Data                   Card columns 68-80 contain constant data on all trailer cards for the
                                                 D104. See D104 Header card for instructions.
1056                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.4. - (Continued) D104 (Trailer 3).

D104 - (Trailer 3) - TSP Change

      Card
    Column(s)                 Data Name                                        Data
        1          Trail Record Indicator   Constant “3”
        2-3        Format Identifier        Constant “D1”
        4-5        Action Indicator         Constant “04”
       6-14        Social Security Number   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
       15-19       Last Name                Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                            name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                            space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                            position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                            ENG G).
       20-22       State                    Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. First two positions must be
                                            alpha (A-Z) or numeric (0-9). Left justify. Space only allowed in
                                            position 22.
       23-31       Zip Code                 Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 2. Must be alpha (A-Z),
                                            numeric (0-9) or spaces. If only the first five positions contain data,
                                            space fill the last four positions.
       32-37       Date of Birth            Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 5. Must be numeric (0-9) and
                                            must be in “YYMMDD” format.
       38-67       Filler                   Spaces.
       68-80       Common Data              Card columns 68-80 contain constant data on all trailer cards for the
                                            D104. See D104 Header card for instructions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                         1057


Figure 68.5. - D106 - Cancel TSP.

D106 - Cancel TSP

     Card
   Column(s)                 Data Name                                          Data
        1           Trail Record Indicator   Constant “C”
       2-3          Format Identifier        Constant “D1”
       4-5          Action Indicator         Constant “06”
      6-14          Social Security Number   Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 3.
      15-19         Last Name                Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section I, Line 1. First five letters of the last
                                             name. If the last name is only four letters, the fifth position will be
                                             space filled. If the last name is only three letters, space fill the fourth
                                             position, the first letter of the first name in the fifth position. (example
                                             ENG G).
      20-25         Effective Date           Obtained from TSP-U-1 Section V, Line 18 and must be in the
                                             “YYMMDD” format.
      26-67         Filler                   Space filled.
      68-80         Common Data              Card columns 68-80 is constant. See D101/D104 for constant data.
1058                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 68.6. - CC03/06 Format for Cash Collection of TSP.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1        TRAIL-RECORD-IND


        2-3      FORMAT-ID


        4-5      ACTN-INDCTR


       6-14      SVC-MBR-SSN


       15-19     NAME-IND-1ST-FIVE


       20-25     CLCTN-DATE - MUST BE VALID YYMMDD; EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN
                 CURRENT DATE


        26       GOV-AGENCY; MUST EQUAL “A”


       27-30     ACCT-ADSN - MAY BE LEFT BLANK


        31       FILLER


       32-39     COLL-VOU-NR; POS 32-33 MUST BE “CP”

       40-48     CLCTN-AMOUNT; LEFT ZERO-FILL; MUST BE LESS THAN OR EQUAL TO
                 $9,999.99


       49-51     CLEAR-ACCT-ID; “510” IF OFFICER, “530” IF ENLISTED


        52       CLCTN-TYPE; MUST = “9”


       53-67     FILLER


       68-80     COMMON DATA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                    1059


Figure 68.7. - TSP-U-1 - Thrift Savings Plan Election Form.
1060   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1061


                                                Chapter 69

                                     INDEBTEDNESS-GENERAL

69.1. Description. The general policy is that members indebted to the United States will be encouraged
to discharge their debts through lump-sum cash payments when possible. Otherwise members will be
encouraged to voluntarily accept liability for their indebtedness and to agree to make periodic cash partial
payments. Collection of debts by payroll deduction (and the preparation of DD Form 139) should be as a
last resort.

69.2. Validity of Debt. The FSO determines that collection for the debt is valid and required supporting
documentation is attached to the DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, received for collection.
Any FSO may process a valid indebtedness on a member's pay account. However, a copy of the indebt-
edness package must be forwarded to the member's servicing FSO.

69.3. Notification of Indebtedness. The member must be notified of the debt by the activity holding the
debt. See paragraph 69.6.8. for details on the three types of debts and definitions of proper notification
required for each type. The FSO is only required to provide the member written notification of the debt
when the documentation shows the member has not been notified of the debt. The FSO need not notify
the member of the debt when specific procedures require the activity to notify the member, for example,
Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), non-appropriated fund instrumentalaties (NAFI).

69.4. Repayment of Indebtedness. The activity generating the debt is responsible for providing notifi-
cation of the existence of the debt and due process to the debtor. Initial notification will include a demand
for immediate payment in full of the debt. When the member is financially unable to pay the debt in one
lump sum, payment may be accepted in regular installments. A member who is unable to pay the debt in
one lump sum must submit a written request, with the appropriate endorsements and attachments, to the
applicable approving authority shown in Table 69.1. The general policy is the installment payment
should bear a reasonable relation to the amount of the debt and the member's ability to pay and be suffi-
cient to protect the interest of the United States Government.
   69.4.1. The repayment may not extend beyond the Date of Separation (DOS). Installment payments
   of less than $50 can only be used if justified on the grounds of an approved undue financial hardship.
   At no time should the repayment amount be below $25 per month. See the DoDFMR, Volume 5 for
   the criteria on an undue financial hardship. Approval levels apply in Table 69.1.
   69.4.2. Payment in full may be made in cash or by agreement to an immediate deduction of the full
   debt amount from available net pay. Notification of voluntary salary offset requires the debtor's writ-
   ten authorization specifying the amount to be paid and the office or appropriation to receive the pay-
   ment. Creditor activities obtaining written authorizations for voluntary salary offsets will forward the
   original and one copy to the member's servicing FSO.

69.5. Repayment Based on Remission. A repayment of a debt may be established by SAF/MRB when
an enlisted member has had a remission denied or partially approved. The repayment schedule estab-
lished by SAF/MRB for the denied amount may remain in effect until the debt is satisfied, the member has
reached the Date of Separation (DOS), or it is determined by the FSO that an increase to the repayment
amount would benefit the Air Force.
1062                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


69.6. General Collection Guidance:
   69.6.1. Indebtedness by a member is generally collected under statutory authorities, each having
   unique limits and procedures: (See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 50.)
       69.6.1.1. Title 37 U.S.C. 1007c. Used to collect debts to DoD or other Uniformed Services. The
       two-thirds rule applies.
       69.6.1.2. Title 5 U.S.C. 5514. Used to collect debts to non-DoD federal agencies. Collection is
       limited to 15 percent of disposable pay with no acceleration allowed prior to separation.
   69.6.2. Where a member has multiple debts to be collected under above statutory authorities, total
   collections are limited by the two-thirds rule.
   69.6.3. If the member has a debt, but no pay available for collection, the FSO must process the start
   transaction and establish a repayment schedule to begin collection when pay is available. The com-
   puter will suspend the debt entry until pay is available.
   69.6.4. When the FSO is adjusting the repayment schedule on a DV entry, the new payment schedule
   may not exceed 24 months' collection for the total debt.
   69.6.5. When establishing a repayment schedule, always round to the highest dollar if the amount is
   not evenly divisible.
   69.6.6. When the Air Force has been requested to collect a debt owed to a non-DoD federal agency
   and the creditor agency has certified that the debt is valid and that due process has been provided,
   DoD policy prohibits the FSO from unilaterally suspending debt collection. DFAS-DE will provide
   specific procedures for FSO use in assisting debtors to resolve disputes regarding debts to such agen-
   cies.
   69.6.7. With the exceptions of debts for excess cost of HHG/trailer shipment received from
   JPPSO-SAT/ECAF and military pay debts received from DFAS-DE, FSOs should not process DD
   forms 139 requesting involuntary pay offset unless creditor organization prepared forms contain the
   following statement: "Member has been provided due process in accordance with DoDFMR, Volume
   7A, paragraph 500104a," or a signed consent agreement is attached to the DD Form 139.
   69.6.8. Debts which can be collected under 37 USC 1007C (Refer to DoDFMR 7A, Chapter 50) are
   divided into three categories: Adjustments of $100 or less, routine adjustments of greater than $100,
   and debts requiring due process.
       69.6.8.1. Adjustments of $100 or less. Such adjustments, regardless of when discovered or col-
       lected, will be treated the same as routine adjustments for collection purposes. The member will
       be provided with notice of collection when it is made, or as soon thereafter as practical.
       69.6.8.2. Routine adjustments greater than $100. A routine adjustment collects an overpayment
       resulting from clerical or administrative errors, delays in processing pay documents, or an auto-
       mated pay system error, which is discovered and collected within no more than two monthly pay
       periods after the date of overpayment. The member shall be provided with notice of collection
       when it is made, or as soon thereafter as practical, and be provided a point of contact for additional
       information. Adjustments of greater than $100 will be processed in the second processing month
       after the processing month in which the debt is discovered. This means that the member and ser-
       vicing FSO will have information (LES remark and management notice) regarding a pending col-
       lection from the member’s pay before the automatic debt collection begins. This provides an
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1063


       opportunity for the member to correct any errors or request a different repay schedule. Whether
       such a repayment schedule is granted will be at the discretion of the Air Force. If the repayment
       schedules are not changed, the system will automatically collect the debt.
       69.6.8.3. Debts greater than $100 that require formal notification to the member in the form of a
       due process letter from the servicing FSO. Initiate formal due process after receipt of a manage-
       ment notice from the pay system and initiate debt collection based on repay schedule require-
       ments.
   69.6.9. Current month overpayments. Entitlement overpayments identified during the current month
   are not scheduled as debts when the member’s current EOM pay is adequate to collect the overpay-
   ment using the two-thirds rule. The member’s pay will be automatically adjusted to eliminate the
   overpayment during EOM payment processing.
   69.6.10. “No pay due” notice. As a precaution to prevent avoidable hardship to the member, a “no
   pay due” management notice will be generated to the servicing finance office when a debt creates a
   “No pay due” situation for that member.
   69.6.11. Separation. When a member is expected to be separated within the next ninety (90) days, the
   system accelerates entitlement - related debt collection to collect all available funds prior to separa-
   tion. However, if it is a retroactive adjustment of over $100 the system will suspend and the FSO will
   have to initiate the collection action.

69.7. Two-Thirds Rule:
   69.7.1. The maximum monthly amount that may be collected for debts owed to the Department of
   Defense or any of its instrumentalities or other uniformed services is an amount equal to two thirds of
   the member's pay less (a) amounts deducted in arriving at disposable pay and (b) amounts collected
   under 5 U.S.C. 5514. A greater percentage is authorized by written consent of the member. Pay is
   defined as the total of basic pay plus special pay and incentive pays including enlistment and reenlist-
   ment bonuses but does not include allowances. Members are generally entitled to receive all of their
   allowances. Disposable pay is computed for active duty members by deducting FICA, AFRH, fines
   and forfeitures, FITW/SITW, and SGLI. Disposable pay for reservists is computed by deducting
   FICA, FITW, SGLI, SSLI, and fines and forfeitures.
   69.7.2. Allotments must be taken into consideration when computing a member's one-third pay. The
   stopping of allotments should be done in the order specified by the member. If the member does not
   specify any specific order, the voluntary allotments such as bonds, charity, and assistance fund should
   be stopped first, followed by savings allotments. Insurance allotments should be stopped last. The
   member must be notified when any allotments are stopped.
   69.7.3. Dishonored commissary checks are not subject to the two-thirds rule.

69.8. Held Pay. The FSO may withhold a portion of a member's pay for an indebtedness in order to pro-
tect the interest of the United States Government. The amount of pay withheld may not exceed the max-
imum collection rate specified in paragraph 69.7. without the member's consent.
   69.8.1. All of the following conditions must apply before withholding pay (except for advance leave
   which becomes excess upon separation):
       69.8.1.1. Member is indebted to United States Government or its instrumentalities.
1064                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       69.8.1.2. The member is projected to separate and the amount of the debt cannot be collected from
       the member's projected final pay if the remission application is denied.
   69.8.2. When a member has advance leave which will become excess upon separation and has signed
   AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization, the FSO may withhold a portion, up to 100%, of the
   member's pay to satisfy the debt. The member's signature on AF Form 988 signifies consent for with-
   holding pay for the advance leave which will become excess upon separation. This is also the case for
   a Selective Reenlistment Bonus (SRB) (AF IMT 901 (Annex to DD Form 4)) and Advance Pay (DD
   Form 2560). The member has given prior consent by virtue of signing the applicable request form.
   69.8.3. The certificate on the DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, (Figure 66.1.), is signed by the FSO
   directing the withholding of pay. Subsequent actions such as stopping, changing, or canceling held
   pay also require the certificate on the DD Form 114. DFAS-DE releases the balance of held pay based
   on the remission application decision. (See paragraph 66.2.)
   69.8.4. Anticipated debts should be processed as held pay - commander's/FSO request.

69.9. Accelerating Collection of Debts. When the FSO is notified a member is pending separation, the
master military pay account (MMPA) must be checked to determine the collection status of any debt. Any
debt which will not be collected by date of separation (DOS) must be reviewed and collection increased
per DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 50, table 50-6. Process an 04 (change) transaction to increase the cur-
rent monthly deduction to ensure collection by DOS for any debt (except tax levies and Title 5 U.S.C.
5514 debts from non-DoD federal agencies (salary offset)) which cannot exceed a collection rate of 15
percent of disposable pay.

69.10. Management Case File (MCF). All indebtedness documentation, including DD Forms 139,
rebuttal letters, remission, and waiver applications are to be kept in a management case file set up by the
FSO. The documentation is retained per Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. When the member
goes permanent change of station (PCS), documentation on open or suspended debts must be included in
the PCS package.

69.11. Management Notices:
   69.11.1. When a retroactive entitlement stop, non-pay status, or grade reduction is posted to a mem-
   ber's MMPA causing the member to be in debt, the FSO receives an XY03 management notice
   describing the debt and the computer generated repay rate. The FSO can change the repayment rate if
   the action indicator is Q8 by processing a DQ20. If the action indicator is not Q8 the FSO processes
   a DQ04 with the new repay rate.
   69.11.2. When the member has a computer-generated debt collecting and receives a net pay increase
   of over $99.99, an XY03 management notice is generated to the FSO. The FSO can process a DQ04
   to increase the repay rate after notifying the member.
   69.11.3. When a computer-generated debt is activated because of pay now being available, the FSO
   receives an XD03 management notice. This notice is normally produced on the first update of the
   next month but can be produced when the member's MMPA receives additional funds and the com-
   puter activates a suspended debt ahead of schedule. If the additional funds are one time, the debt stays
   active (Q1) even though no further deduction will occur. The FSO must control the collection restart
   when funds are available by processing a DQ04. An XD03 management notice is also produced if
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1065


   DFAS-DE inputs a DQ01. The FSO will suspend this debt pending notification to the member (see
   paragraph 69.3.).
   69.11.4. When a member separates with a debt, an XS03 is produced to the FSO showing the total
   amount of all the open and suspended debts except DVs. The amount includes all open debts on the
   MMPA that cannot be collected from final pay before DOS as well as any debt to be created because
   of excess leave, recoupment of bonus, etc.
   69.11.5. The following notices are generated to the FSO when AAFES processes DS transactions to
   the MMPA:
      69.11.5.1. UD03 indicates AAFES has processed a DS06 to cancel a debt.
      69.11.5.2. UR03 indicates AAFES has processed a DS01 to start collection action.
      69.11.5.3. US03 indicates AAFES has processed a DS04 (change) transaction.
   69.11.6. The following notices are generated from reports of survey (DGs):
      69.11.6.1. UN03 notifies the FSO when a report of survey has been fully collected.
      69.11.6.2. UP03 notifies the FSO when a report of survey was started.
      69.11.6.3. UO03 notifies the FSO when a member has separated and the report of survey was not
      fully collected.
   69.11.7. If the member is in a PCS status, these management notices are sent to the projected gaining
   ADSN for their action when the member arrives on station.

69.12. Advance Input of Transactions:
   69.12.1. Indebtedness transactions with action indicator 01, 04, 05, 18, 20, and 21 may be input with
   the date of the current processing month or the following processing month. (Refer to Figure 70.2.
   through Figure 70.17. for transaction input screens.) Transactions input with the date of the following
   processing month will recycle with code RAU (transaction recycle to come in on effective date) until
   the update on or after the 25th day of the current month. If the transaction has a date other than the
   current or next processing month, the transaction will reject ZDX (effective date/processing date
   incompatible).
   69.12.2. Indebtedness transactions with action indicator 06 may only be input with the current pro-
   cessing month. If the transaction has a date other than the current processing month, the transaction
   will reject ZDX (effective date/processing date incompatible).
   69.12.3. Indebtedness transactions (DG, DR, and DS) with action indicator 02 may be input with the
   prior or current processing month. If the transaction has a date other than the prior or current process-
   ing month, the transaction will reject ZDX (effective date/processing date incompatible). The one
   exception is when the cancellation is for MGIB. Central site can process a DS06 to cancel a prior
   month. The 06 transaction will generate transactions to refund and adjust taxes.

69.13. Suspended Transactions:
   69.13.1. A DQ, DR or DS indebtedness may be suspended as action indicator 18 by processing a
   DQ01, DR01 or DS01 transaction with a suspension reason code or by processing a DQ18, DR18 or
   DS18 transaction against an open entry. The suspended entry may only be opened by processing the
1066                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   applicable transaction with action indicator 20 or 21. The DQ18 and DR18 transactions will not pro-
   cess against entries which have an action indicator equal to Q8, 18, 20 or 21. A DS18 transaction will
   not process against entries which have an action indicator equal to Q8, 20, or 21, but will process
   against action indicator 18. Send a message to DFAS-DE/FJP for action stating all facts if the entry
   needs to be suspended again.
   69.13.2. A DG indebtedness entry may be suspended with action indicator 18 only by processing a
   start transaction (action indicator 01 with at least a 3-month repayment schedule) and then processing
   a DG18 transaction. The suspended entry may only be opened by processing a transaction with action
   indicator 20 or 21. Action indicator 18 transactions will not process against entries which have an
   action indicator Q8, 18, 20, or 21. Send a message to DFAS-DE/FJPAD for action stating all facts if
   the entry needs to be suspended again.
   69.13.3. An indebtedness entry with action indicator Q8 signifies a computer generated suspension
   for no available pay unless the entry is a DV or DW. A DV or DW entry may be suspended for no
   available pay or collection not to begin until the next month.
   69.13.4. The FSO may open an entry with action indicator Q8 by processing a resume transaction
   (action indicator 20).

69.14. Cancellation of Indebtedness:
   69.14.1. A DG, DR, or DS indebtedness entry may only be canceled (action indicator 06) by FSO
   input, if the cancellation transaction is processed in the same month as the entry was started on the
   MMPA. The FSO may not generate a refund of a prior month deduction by processing a cancellation
   transaction.
   69.14.2. A DQ indebtedness entry may be canceled by the FSO, even though a prior month deduction
   has been made or the DQ entry is closed. If the DQ entry was computer generated, the transaction
   which created the DQ must be canceled. If the FSO has problems canceling a DQ, send a message to
   DFAS-DE/FJPAD for assistance.
   69.14.3. If a DG or DS entry was erroneously started and a prior month deduction has been made, the
   FSO must send a message to DFAS-DE/FJPAD requesting cancellation, stating all pertinent facts.
   69.14.4. If a DR entry was erroneously started and a prior month deduction has been made or if the
   entry has been closed, the FSO must send a message to DFAS-DE/FJPAD requesting cancellation,
   stating all pertinent facts.
   69.14.5. A refund will not be made for a prior month deduction if the member decides to submit a
   rebuttal letter or remission application after the 30-day notification. Any refund due for a rebuttal let-
   ter will be made after adjudication. If the cancellation is for a rebuttal letter or remission application,
   the FSO must include in the message request to DFAS-DE/FJPAD, the date of the letter notification to
   the member and the date of the member's rebuttal letter or remission application.

69.15. Collection at Separation or Retirement:
   69.15.1. When an officer is indebted at time of separation or retirement, collect from final pay, unpaid
   pay and allowances, separation payments (except donation), amounts deducted for United States Sav-
   ings Bonds, separation travel allowance, reimbursement for transportation of household goods, and
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1067


   dislocation and trailer allowance to satisfy the debt. The officer is not entitled to one-third of his or
   her pay and partial payments are not to be made to offset collection.
   69.15.2. When an enlisted member is indebted at time of separation or retirement, collect from final
   pay unpaid pay and allowances, separation payments (except donation), amounts deducted for United
   States savings bonds, reimbursement for transportation of household goods, dislocation and trailer
   allowance, and pay detained by courts-martial sentence or non-judicial punishment to satisfy the debt.
   69.15.3. Debts incurred by dependents of officers or enlisted members to the United States or its
   instrumentalities may not be collected from final pay without the written consent of the member.
   69.15.4. When an officer or enlisted member is retiring, debts may not be transferred to retired pay
   unless collection of all final pay will create an undue financial hardship. The balance of the debt may
   then be carried to retired pay if the member has an approved financial statement endorsed by the com-
   mander and accepted by the FSO.
   69.15.5. When a remission application is pending, contact the Air Force Financial Services Center
   (AFFSC) Remission section for a determination before making the final payment to the member. The
   AFFSC Remission section may be contacted, via email, at affsc.remission@ellsworth.af.mil or, via
   phone, at DSN 675-8000, commercial (605)386-8000. If a determination has been made, include in
   the final payment any amount remitted. If a determination has not been made, deduct the amount of
   the debt from the final payment.
   69.15.6. Cash Repayment of an Anticipated Debt. To collect an anticipated debt from a separating
   member who desires to repay the debt in cash, use the following procedures.
      69.15.6.1. Determine the amount of the anticipated debt and collect the monies from the member
      into the FSO suspense account.
      69.15.6.2. After the member's MMPA goes into a "V" status (DOS + 20 days), verify from the
      MMPA that a debt was computer generated.
      69.15.6.3. Once the debt has been created on the MMPA, remove the monies from the suspense
      account and process a C203 cash collection transaction against the debt on the member's MMPA.
      69.15.6.4. If no debts actually exist or if there was an over collection, refund the monies to the
      member by check against the suspense account.
      69.15.6.5. These procedures are only to be used on a cash settlement of an anticipated debt.

69.16. Collection After Separation:
   69.16.1. Disposition of Miscellaneous (DS) Debts at Separation. At separation DS debts which are
   paid directly to an appropriation (as well as the accountability for the debt) will be transferred from
   DJMS-AC to Debt and Claims, DFAS-POCT/DE. DS debts with type codes equal to 2, 5, B, E, F, H,
   L, M, N, or V (Air Force MMPA’s only), will be closed when the MMPA goes into a T-reason 3, 5, or
   7 or V status.
   69.16.2. Miscellaneous (DS) debts with type codes equal to 6, A, C, D, G, J, K, P, Q, R, S, and U will
   remain open and will be transferred to Debt and Claims.
   69.16.3. Collection of other than DS debts at separation. A debt remaining at separation, after collec-
   tion of final pay, will be liquidated by collecting any amounts due the member for transportation of
1068                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   dependents, shipment of personal property, and separation travel (officers only). Although an enlisted
   member's initial payment (advance) for separation travel cannot be collected to satisfy a debt, any
   amount due for separation travel following completion of such travel is available for offset.
       69.16.3.1. Military Pay will notify Travel of the amount of the debt and the member's DOS for
       annotating the record of travel payments. If the debt is not posted to the MMPA, process the
       appropriate indebtedness transaction.
       69.16.3.2. Travel will notify Military Pay when a member is owed amounts and the record of
       travel payments shows the member has a debt. Military Pay will then contact DFAS-POCT/DE to
       determine the status of the debt.
       69.16.3.3. If the debt is still owed, Travel will prepare SF 1096, Schedule of Voucher Deductions,
       for collection of the debt. A copy of SF 1096 will be forwarded to Military Pay for processing a
       C203 transaction. Make sure the debt is posted to the MMPA before processing the C203 transac-
       tion.

69.17. Appropriation Data. When processing a DS or DR transaction with USAF appropriation data (a
Department equal to 57), use the following information:
   69.17.1. Open Allotment 525725:
       69.17.1.1. Do not use projects P510 or P530 for a DS (miscellaneous) debt. A pay or allowances
       debt should be processed as a DQ (pay and allowance).
       69.17.1.2. If budget project contains only three digits (that is, 515, 535), input with prefix "P"
       (P515, P535).
       69.17.1.3. PCS Appropriations:
          69.17.1.3.1. Change year to next fiscal year - highlighted.


                             EX: 5733500 323 5871.9M 525725
                             Input as: 5743500 324 5871.0M 525725


          69.17.1.3.2. The 2nd digit of the budget project must be 7 for officers and 8 for enlisted.


                             EX: 5771.0M--officer or 5871.0M--enlisted


          69.17.1.3.3. If the last digit in the budget project is 8, the sub-project must be 0N.


                             EX: 5878.0N or 5778.0N
          69.17.1.3.4. Use numerical 0 for the first digit of sub-project, not alpha O.
          69.17.1.3.5. If sub-project is 0T (mobile home payments), input as 0G (mobile home adjust-
          ments).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1069


       69.17.1.4. When the indebtedness is for the excess costs associated with the movement of HHG
       and other personal property and the military pay appropriation is cited, the DR transaction must be
       used and the only elements needed are the fiscal year and budget project/sub-project. Otherwise,
       the DS transaction must be used.
   69.17.2. Open Allotment 525002:
       69.17.2.1. The DS transaction must be used.
       69.17.2.2. If the appropriation is 57*3400 306 A89999 408 525002, the following data elements
       in the DS transaction trailer records would be completed as follows:


APPROP-CODE                             57*3400
FUND-CODE                               30
FISCAL-YR                               *
BUDGET-PROJ-SUB-PROJ-RCCC               A89999
MISC-APPROP                             408
ADSN                                    525002
* = Appropriate Fiscal Year


       69.17.2.3. If the accounting and disbursing station number (ADSN) in the appropriation is a spe-
       cific Air Force ADSN, the debt should be input to the company code of that ADSN.
       69.17.2.4. If a D company code has not been designated and the appropriation is not USAF, the
       DS transaction must be used with the applicable trailer records containing the appropriation data.

69.18. Detail Supporting JUMPS Miscellaneous Deductions Report (PCN UH099C187). At the end
of every month, DFAS-DE mails a check and report to each miscellaneous indebtedness company code
for which a deduction was made from a member's pay record. The deductions processed were requested
on a DD Form 114, Military Pay Order; DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, or some other
authorized collection document. The following procedures should be used to process the check and report
received:
   69.18.1. Receipt of Check. The check is received by paying and collecting and deposited into
   57F3875, Budget Clearing Account (Suspense) Air Force, if the funds will not be collected into the
   applicable appropriation the same business day. If the check is for SF 1219, Statement of Account-
   ability, see paragraph 69.18.9. below.
1070                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   69.18.2. Receipt of Report. Military Pay notifies (or forwards report, if appropriate, to) the applicable
   subject matter area (SMA) as shown below:


              Debt Type         SMA
              D                 See paragraph i
              G                 Travel
              K                 DD Form 139 originator
              L                 Materiel
              P                 Travel
              U                 Commercial Services


   The SMA annotates the report with the accounting classification. See paragraph 69.18.5. below if the
   accounting classification cannot be determined.
   69.18.3. Collection of Funds -- Suspense Account. If the check was immediately deposited to the
   FSO's suspense account, except for SF 1219 receivables, each SMA prepares an SF 1081, Voucher
   and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits, for their funds. No check or cash payment is made based
   on the SF 1081. (See DoDFMR Volume 5, paragraph 8-11a(3).)
   69.18.4. Collection of Funds -- Non-Suspense Account. If the check was not immediately deposited
   to the FSO's suspense account, each SMA involved prepares a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection
   Voucher, for their funds. More than one member and accounting classification can appear on the DD
   Form 1131. (See DoDFMR Volume 5, paragraphs 7-15 and 7-21.)
   69.18.5. Unidentified Funds. If, after research, no fund citation or cause for receipt of the collection
   can be found, contact input-ADSN in the applicable MMPA DS entry for assistance. If the
   input-ADSN is equal to spaces, the FSO should contact the member's servicing FSO for assistance.
   The servicing FSO can identify the input source from the DTR or the JDC output products corre-
   sponding to the DS entry's EOD. In addition, a copy of the source document for the DS entry should
   be maintained in the servicing FSO's management case file (MCF). FSO's may not return the entire
   check or a portion of the check. This also includes rejecting by others transactions through the MAFR
   system. Any funds returned to DFAS-DE will be returned without action. If, after completely
   researching the matter, including contacting the member's servicing FSO, assistance is still needed,
   contact DFAS-DE/FJFBA, DSN 926-6828.
   69.18.6. Wrong Company Code. If the FSO inputs its own company code in error instead of another
   FSO's company code, Military Pay prepares an SF 1047, Public Voucher for Refunds, for a check to
   be issued to the correct recipient. (See DoDFMR Volume 5, paragraphs 8-5 and 8-7.) Send a copy of
   all documentation with the check. That portion of the check must first be deposited to the FSO's sus-
   pense account. If the deduction is continuing, input a DS04 transaction to change the company code.
   69.18.7. Wrong Accounting Appropriation. If the FSO input the wrong appropriation, DFAS-DE/
   FJFBA will cancel or stop the DS entry and re-input a DS01 transaction with the company code of the
   FSO which input the original transaction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1071


   69.18.8. Suspense Account. Do not hold up processing the collection forms to obtain an accounting
   classification. Process all vouchers except the unidentified accounts and leave in or post the latter to
   the FSO's suspense account. Follow procedures in this paragraph when the accounts are identified.
   69.18.9. SF 1219 Receivables. These receivables concern double payments (original and substitute
   checks both cashed by the member), dishonored checks, and check issue overpayments. They are
   established on the SF 1219 on the basis of debit vouchers or advices of check issue discrepancies.
   When the check is received from DFAS-DE, that portion pertaining to SF 1219 receivables, indebted-
   ness-code D, is deposited to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States and is recorded on SF 1219
   as an increase in confirmed deposits and a decrease to the receivable. Do not process a collection
   voucher. Enter such collections into the FSO's suspense account only when collection is made before
   establishment of the receivable on the SF 1219.
   69.18.10. Retaining Report. Military Pay retains the report for use the following month. This speeds
   up identifying the accounting classification for the same members appearing on the previous month's
   report.

69.19. Open or Suspended Questionable Indebtedness:
   69.19.1. Obtaining report. A copy of the report can be obtained through the Sysout Archive Retrieval
   System (SAR). It is produced every 6 months (March and September) and is in ADSN order.
   69.19.2. Return of the report. One copy of the report must be returned to DFAS-DE/FJY by the sus-
   pense date established by message. Any extension must be requested from DFAS-DE/FJY through
   your MAJCOM. Forward a copy of the report to DFAS-DE/FJY through you MAJCOM. Each report
   must be annotated with the appropriate action taken on each debt. If appropriate action was not taken,
   DFAS-DE/FJY will contact the FSO and MAJCOM for assistance.
1072                                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 69.1. replaced with the following:
 CODE      DESCRIPTION            EXPLANATION                                            FSO ACTION


   A    Action indicator Q8   Debt has been              If member has pay available, process a resume (action indicator 20)
        over 3 months old     suspended by computer      transaction to begin collection. Otherwise, determine member's current
                              for over 3 months, due     status. If correct status allows accrual of pay, take action to collect debts by
                              to no pay available.       stopping allotments, terminating partial pay, etc. If correct status of pay,
                                                         annotate listing with correct status. Annotate listing with the DFAS-DE
                                                         update number on which the transaction processed


   B    Action indicator 18   Debt has been              Determine reason for suspension. Contact the AFFSC Remissions section for
        over 5 months old     suspended by FSO or        status of remissions, and contact DFAS-JFEAB/INfor status of waivers.
                              DFAS-DE input, for         Contact JPPSO-SAT/ECAF for status of HHG rebuttals. Process a resume
                              over 5 months.             (action indicator 20) or remit (action indicator 21) transaction to begin
                                                         collection action if waiver, remission or rebuttal/appeal has been adjudicated.
                                                         Annotate the listing with the DFAS-DE update number on which the
                                                         transaction processed.


   C    Deduction CM less     Deduction current          Determine why deduction is less than the $50.00. Process a change (action
        than $50              month is less than the     indicator 04) to increase the deduction amount. Annotate the listing with the
                              $50.00 minimum             DFAS-DE update number on which the transaction processed. If repayment
                              deduction established      was based on a remission and it is determined that an increase would benefit
                              by DFAS-DE                 the Air Force, increase the monthly repayment accordingly. Annotate the
                                                         listing with the date of the remission approval.


   D    Repay rate exceeds 12 Specific indebtedness      Determine approval level for deduction amount. Process a change (action
        months.               divided by current         indicator 04) transaction to increase deduction amount unless repay was
                              month deduction is         approved by base commander or RM representative, DFAS-DE, SAF, or
                              more than 12 months        MAJCOM. Repayment amounts may be increased by the FSO if it is
                              repay.                     determined it would benefit the Air Force or if the debt will not be collected
                                                         before the member's DOS. If the FORMAT-ID and action indicator is DV05,
                                                         annotate the listing with the start date of the original entry. Annotate the
                                                         listing with approval level when other than the FSO and with the DFAS-DE
                                                         update number on which the change transaction processed.


   E    Indebtedness won't be Current month              Determine approval level for deduction amount. Process a change (action
        paid by date of       deduction will not         indicator 04) transaction to increase deduction amount. Annotate the listing
        separation (DOS).     permit debt to be          with the DFAS-DE update number on which the transaction is processed. If
                              collected by DOS.          the deduction is not increased because member is reenlisting, annotate the
                                                         listing with the date of the member's reenlistment.


   G    Indebtedness not      Debt entry is open with    Process a change (action indicator 04) transaction to establish a current
        suspended and not     a current month            month deduction and begin collection. Annotate the listing with the
        collecting.           deduction of zero.         DFAS-DE update number on which the change transaction processed.
   H    Suspended DV or       Collection of a partial,   Determine reason for suspension. If action indicator is Q8, determine
        DW.                   casual, or advance pay     member's correct status. If correct status allows accrual of pay, take action to
                              debt is suspended.         collect debts by stopping allotments, terminating partial pay, etc. If correct
                                                         status does not allow accrual of pay, annotate listing with correct status. If
                                                         action indicator is 18, contact DFAS-DE/FJY to have collection taken.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1073


Table 69.2. REPAYMENT APPROVAL LEVEL (EXCEPT ADVANCE PAY)
 R
 U                       APPROVAL
   LENGTH OF
 L REPAYMENT             AUTHORITY
 E (NOTE 1)              (NOTE 2)                 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED
  1 12 Months or Less FSO (note 3)                (a) Written request
  2 13 to 24 Months      Wing or Base             (a) Written request
    (note 7)             Commander (note 4)       (b) AF Form 2451 Financial Statement
                                                  (c) Unit commander's or first sergeant's
                                                  recommendation
                                                  (d) FSO's recommendation
  3 More than 24         MAJCOM (note 5)          (a) Written request
    Months (note 6)                               (b) AF Form 2451 Financial Statement
    (note 7)
                                                  (c) Unit commander's or first sergeant's
                                                  recommendation
                                                  (d) FSO's recommendation

NOTES:
     1. Approval level applies unless there is specific guidance in the chapter for the debt.
       2. If the member disagrees with the repay rate, he/she may appeal to the next higher approval
          authority; however, the FSO is considered the final approval authority.
       3. If the request is denied by the FSO and the member wants reconsideration, the member has
          his/her unit commander or first sergeant endorse the written request and submit it to the FSO.
          The FSO sends the entire package to the base commander or RM representative.
       4. If the request is denied by the base commander or RM representative and the member wants
          reconsideration, send the entire package including the base commander or RM representative
          denial to MAJCOM/FMF.
       5. If the request is denied by MAJCOM and the member wants reconsideration, send the entire
          package including MAJCOM denial to DFAS-DE/FJEP.
       6. When the repayment has been approved for over 12 months due to a financial hardship, the
          FSO must review the debt every 12 months to determine whether collection can be increased
          due to a financial increase for the member. The FSO must request a new financial statement
          (AF Form 2451) from the member with supporting documentation. If the member refuses to
          submit a new statement, increase the collection to current month collection with a maximum
          collection of the two-thirds rule.
       7. Any repayment longer than 12 months must be base on a financial hardship and must be col-
          lected prior to the member’s DOS.
1074                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


69.20. Appeal:
   69.20.1. To appeal the validity of any debt shown below, the member prepares, addresses, and pre-
   sents to his or her commander (except for 69.20.2. below) a signed statement in two copies. It should
   include:
       69.20.1.1. Identification of charge against member's account.
       69.20.1.2. Member's reason for protesting debt.
       69.20.1.3. Evidence refuting debt, including documents, receipt, correspondence, and description
       of circumstances or events for which verifying evidence is not available. If member has evidence
       not immediately available, describe it and state when it can be furnished. Member should identify
       dates, official designations or organizations, and other information as exactly as possible.
   69.20.2. To appeal or rebut excess cost on shipment of personal property, see paragraph 70.8.
   69.20.3. Upon receipt of an appeal or rebuttal of a debt, the commander verifies facts stated, as far as
   possible (except for those in 69.20.2. above where commander is not involved) and sends original and
   one copy of the statement with attachments and debt notice to the FSO. The FSO prepares and
   attaches a statement giving a detailed explanation of the circumstances causing the debt to be estab-
   lished and forwards the rebuttal through the MAJCOM to:


       TYPE OF DEBT                                       ADDRESS
Report of Survey (DG or DS)       See AFR 177-111 and/or the DoDFMR.


Pay and Allowances (DQ)           DFAS-DE/FJE, 6760 IRVINGTON PL.
                                  Denver CO 80279-8000


FHA (DS)                          DFAS-DE/FCD, 6760 IRVINGTON PL.
                                  Denver CO 80279-8000

Travel (DS)                       DFAS-DE/FTV, 6760 IRVINGTON PL.
                                  Denver CO 80279-8000


Allotments (DS)                   DFAS-DE/FJE, 6760 IRVINGTON PL.
                                  Denver CO 80279-3000


Base Exchange (DS)                AAFES/CM-G, Dallas TX 75222, through the BX which levied
                                  the charge.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1075


      TYPE OF DEBT                                      ADDRESS
Housing (DS)                       HQ USAF/CEH, Pentagon, Room 5D433,
                                   Washington DC 20330, through the housing office which levied
                                   the charge.


Non-appropriated Fund              Executive Secretariat, P.O. Box 302, Air Force Welfare Board,
Instrumentalities (DS)             Randolph AFB TX 78148, through the NAFI which levied the
                                   charge.


Appropriated Funds                 Activity which levied the charge.
(commissary, telephone,
education assistance, etc.) (DS)
   69.20.4. File one copy of member's statement and transmittal along with the debt notice in the MCF.
   Process the debt and suspend collection until answer has been received, except for board-generated
   debts. If member is awaiting evidence, suspend collection but not beyond date the member stated in
   his or her letter. If the member does not furnish the evidence, start collection action immediately.
   69.20.5. Normal inquiries about the debt created by DFAS-DE are not considered appeals and the
   FSO can correspond directly with DFAS-DE/FJP if the member questions the debt.
   69.20.6. Director, DFAS-DE, or designee, has final authority for appeals on appropriated fund indebt-
   edness for officers, for enlisted the final authority for debts is SAF/MI.

69.21. Remission. Remission procedures apply to debts of enlisted personnel only. See Chapter 73 for
procedures on submission of a remission application. A copy of the remission application must be main-
tained in the management case file. Generally, any indebtedness may be considered for remission except
fines and forfeitures.
   69.21.1. Suspend collection of the debt effective the current processing month after receipt of the
   completed remission application. Under no circumstances is the debt to be suspended based on oral
   request of the member or an incomplete remission application. If the member does not submit the
   application within the 30 days notice, collection action is to be started. Collection action will then be
   suspended when the remission application is submitted. Any amount previously collected will not be
   refunded.
   69.21.2. Upon adjudication of the remission application, AFFSC Remissions will process the appli-
   cable action indicator 20 or 21 transaction and notify the FSO, via email message, of the results of the
   remission.

69.22. Waiver. Pertains to a waiver of claims for erroneous payments of a member of the uniformed ser-
vices arising out of an erroneous payment of pay or allowances (including travel or transportation allow-
ance) may be considered for waiver. The debt may not be suspended unless notified by DFAS-DE/
FYCTA. A copy of waiver application must be maintained in the management case file. See Chapter 73
for procedures on submission of waiver application.
1076                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


69.23. Claim. A member may submit a claim to the GAO for a refund of an amount previously collected
for excess cost of a shipment of personal property. See Chapter 74 for submission procedures.

Figure 69.1. Notification of an Indebtedness. (FSO-generated debt).


(Appropriate Letterhead)


_____________/FMFP (phone number)                                           XXX(date)XXX


SUBJECT: Notification of an Indebtedness Against Your Pay Account


TO:




1. We have received a charge against your pay account in the amount of $_________. This charge
resulted from (state reason for the charge).


2. You have the right to inspect and copy the government records related to the debt.


3. You have five options available. If you do not understand or if you have any questions about these
options, please contact (insert originator of the debt and phone number).


        a. Appeal the validity of the debt. This option may be used if you feel the debt should not be
charged against your account. You must submit evidence that the debt is not justified. If you elect to
appeal, all of the decisions related to the debt will be reviewed.


         b. Request a remission and cancellation of the debt (available only to enlisted personnel). Gen-
erally, a remission application may be submitted for any debt against your pay account (except court-mar-
tial debts). A remission can be submitted for any valid reason. Examples are financial hardship, receipt
of improper advice, and administrative errors. A remission application, if approved, will cancel the debt
against your account. If this option is selected, you should contact your accounting and finance office for
assistance in preparation of the application.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1077


       c. Request a waiver of the debt for overpayment of pay and allowances. A waiver may be sub-
mitted when collection of the debt would be against equity and good conscience. If you select this option,
contact your accounting and finance office for assistance.


       d. Pay the debt. If you did not select option a, b, or c, you may:


               (1) Comply with the proposed repayment schedule below in paragraph 6.


               (2) Propose a different repayment schedule.


               (3) Make a cash payment.


         e. Apply to the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records (BCMR) through your MPF
to have the records corrected to eliminate an error or injustice IAW AFI 36-2603. The BCMR has author-
ity to recommend correction of any element of a military record, which therefore could include the facts
supporting any type of indebtedness. This option is available only after all other options have been
exhausted. When the BCMR application is for excess cost for movement of personal properties, it must
be supported by a copy of the final adjudication from JPPSO/ECAF, and if appropriate, a copy of the
response to the request for remission. Further, a payment option mentioned in paragraph 3.4. above must
be selected and payment be initiated when BCMR action is being pursued.


4. If this charge is for excess costs for movement of personal property, review the DD Form 139, Pay
Adjustment Authorization, for the statement "additional charges possible." If this occurs, there may be an
additional debt against your account about which you will be notified later. If you wish to appeal the
validity of these excess cost charges, immediately contact the Traffic Management Office (TMO) for
proper counseling.


5. Any portion of the debt remaining at the time you are separated from the Air Force will be collected
from your final pay and allowances.


6. Our proposed repayment schedule is:


       _______a. One payment effective ______________.
       _______b. $_____a month for __________ months effective _________ and $_______
                 for the last month of ___________.
1078                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


7. Please return this notification to us not later than ______________ to advise us of your option. If you
fail to return it by the above date, collection will be taken against your account at the rate in paragraph 6.
If you have any questions, please contact us for assistance. Any appeal, rebuttal, waiver, or remission
application must be submitted within 30 days of date of this notification.




1st Ind to _______/FMFP Ltr, XXX (date) XXX, Notification of an Indebtedness Against your Pay
Account.


TO: _______/FMFP                                                       XXX (date) XXX


(Member checks one of the following):
_____Post the debt to my account per your paragraph 6.
_____I request a faster method of payment. I can pay this debt in __________ monthly
  installments.
_____I will make a cash payment on ______________.
_____I request a longer method of repayment because of financial hardship. (See Other)
_____I will appeal/rebut the validity of this debt. You can expect my appeal/rebuttal package by ______.
_____I will request a remission of the debt. You can expect my remission application by _____________.
_____I will request a waiver of the debt. You can expect my waiver application by ____________.
_____Other:




(Member's signature and duty phone)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               1079


Figure 69.2. Notification of Salary Offset.
       (Appropriate Letterhead)


_____________/FMFP (phone number)                                      XXX(date)XXX


SUBJECT: Notification Salary Offset


TO:




1. We have received a charge against your pay account in the amount of $_________. This charge
resulted from (state reason for the charge).


2. In their letter of (insert date), (insert the organization originating the debt collection) informed you of
this debt and requested payment within 30 days. The letter also informed you of your rights to inspect and
copy records related to the debt, appeal the validity of the debt, and request remission or waiver of the
debt. Because no payment, appeal, or remission/waiver request was received, the debt was declared
delinquent and forwarded to the accounting and finance office for collection by salary offset.


3. Our proposed repayment schedule is:


       _____a. One payment effective _______________.
       _____b. $_____ a month for ______ months effective ________ and $ ________ for the last
               month of _________________.


4. Please return this notification to us not later than _____________ to advise us of your option. If you
fail to return it by the above date, collection will be taken against your account at the rate in paragraph 6.
If you have any questions, please contact us for assistance.
1080                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


1st Ind to _______/FMFP Ltr, XXX (date) XXX, Notification of Salary Offset


TO: _______/FMFP                                                 XXX (date) XXX


(Member checks one of the following):


_____Post the debt to my account per your paragraph 6.
_____I request a faster method of payment. I can pay this debt in __________ monthly installments.
_____I will make a cash payment on ______________.
_____I request a longer method of repayment because of financial hardship. (See Other)
_____Other:




(Member's signature and duty phone)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                1081


                                                 Chapter 70

                 INDEBTEDNESS-AIR FORCE (OTHER THAN DISHONORED
                 CHECKS, COMMISSARY AND NON-APPROPRIATED FUND)

Section 70A—Shipment of Personal Property.

70.1. Description. This chapter contains information on the following types of indebtedness: Report of
Survey, Pay and Allowances, Shipment of Personal Property, Advance, Casual and Partial Payments,
Compensation received from non-government sources, Jury Duty and Witness fees and Miscellaneous
Debts to the Air Force.

70.2. Report of Survey. A member may become indebted to the United States by being held pecuniarily
liable for government property lost, damaged, or destroyed.
   70.2.1. If the member voluntarily agrees to reimburse the government by a cash collection, the collec-
   tion is processed on DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher. Process a DG01 transaction with at
   least a 3-month repayment and a C203 transaction with FORMAT-ID DG. DG transactions are shown
   in Figure 70.2. through Figure 70.3.
   70.2.2. If the member voluntarily agrees to reimburse the government but wants the monies deducted
   from pay, the FSO receives either a DD Form 362, Statement of Charges/Cash Collection Voucher, or
   a DD Form 114, Military Pay Order, from the responsible officer or unit supply officer. Process a
   DG01 transaction with a repayment per the statement of charges.
   70.2.3. If the member does not voluntarily agree to reimburse the government, a DD Form 200,
   Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, is prepared and sent to the FSO. Ensure you indi-
   cate the liability amount on the DD Form 200 in the appropriate block. Process a DG01 transaction
   for the amount of liability.
   70.2.4. If the appropriation cited is other than 573019, an installation's appropriation, or for damage
   to family housing or dormitories, see paragraph 70.16.

70.3. Overpayment of Pay and Allowances. A member may become overpaid for pay and allowances
due to a stop or change to an entitlement. The DQ indebtedness may be computer generated or input
directly by the FSO or DFAS-DE. The FSO must notify the member of the indebtedness per paragraph
69.3. If the member's DOS is imminent and an E6 transaction has not been received, collection action is
to begin immediately. DQ transactions are shown in Figure 70.4. through Figure 70.8.
   70.3.1. The input of the DQ transaction by the FSO is limited to entitlement overpayments that are
   outside IAS. If the entitlement overpayment is within IAS, the FSO must ensure that the applicable
   transaction is processed that will cause the necessary entitlement adjustment. The processes described
   below apply to all pay affecting transactions that are processed unless otherwise specified. If multiple
   entitlements are adjusted with a single transaction, the results will be based on the net affect of all enti-
   tlements that were adjusted by the transaction.
   70.3.2. When the applicable transaction is processed:
       70.3.2.1. The MMPA entitlement entry is updated to reflect the adjustment;
1082                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       70.3.2.2. A suspended MMPA DQ entry with a suspension reason code 9 is established for the net
       amount of the prior month's entitlement that was adjusted within IAS;
       70.3.2.3. A quasi-advance (FID 86) MMPA entry is established for the same amount as the sus-
       pended MMPA DQ entry;
       70.3.2.4. A XY management notice is generated to the servicing FSO;
       70.3.2.5. The collection of the DQ will start automatically the first update of the following pro-
       cessing month plus one month if the FSO does not take action by processing a DQ18 or DQ20
       transaction;
       70.3.2.6. The current month entitlement adjustment is collected immediately. If there is insuffi-
       cient net pay, a suspended DQ MMPA entry and a quasi-advance (FID 86) MMPA entry are cre-
       ated for the unpaid amount and a XY management notice is generated to the servicing FSO. The
       collection of this DQ is started when additional net pay becomes due.
   70.3.3. The establishment of a suspended DQ with a suspension reason code 9 as described above
   does not apply to the following entitlements and processes: additional special pay (FID 25), regis-
   tered nurse accession bonus (FID 26), regular reenlistment bonus (FID 31), scientific and engineering
   bonus (FID 32), selective enlistment bonus (FID 33), selective reenlistment bonus (FID 34), aviator
   retention bonus (FID 38), clothing replacement allowance (FID63), disability severance pay (FID 71),
   discharge gratuity (FID 72), lump sum leave (FID 74), readjustment pay (FID 76), severance pay (FID
   77), personal expense (FID 78), voluntary separation incentive(FID 83), special separation benefit
   (FID 84), excess leave (FID SB), absent without leave (FID SJ), confinement (FID SK), desertion
   (FID SP), and separations (FIDS E4/E5). Overpayments of the above entitlements or overpayments
   due to separation or one of the above statuses will be collected lump sum or with the repayment sched-
   ule reported in the DQ transaction.
   70.3.4. The establishment of a suspended MMPA DQ entry with a suspension reason code 9 applies
   to the following entitlements with exceptions:
       70.3.4.1. Move in housing allowance (FID 42). Only if the net amount of the adjustment for the
       current and prior month is negative.
       70.3.4.2. Initial uniform and equipment allowance (FID 59). Action indicator 06 only.
       70.3.4.3. Additional uniform and equipment allowance (FID 60). Action indicator 06 only.
       70.3.4.4. Extra clothing allowance (FID 61). Only if the net amount of the adjustment for the cur-
       rent and prior month is negative.
       70.3.4.5. Temporary lodging allowance (FID 79). Only if the start date is in a prior month and the
       net amount of the adjustment is negative.
       70.3.4.6. Initial civilian clothing allowance (FID 81). Only if the net amount of the adjustment
       for the current and prior month is negative.
       70.3.4.7. Continuing civilian clothing allowance (FID 82). Only if the net amount of the adjust-
       ment for the current and prior month is negative.
       70.3.4.8. Leave (non-excess) processing (FID SB). Only if the net amount of the adjustment for
       the prior month is negative and an entitlement other than basic allowance for subsistence (FID 40)
       is adjusted.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1083


  70.3.5. The following examples illustrate the processes described in paragraph 70.3.2.:
     70.3.5.1. Example 1: There is an open BAQ entry ($600.00 monthly rate) and an open VHA entry
     ($300.00 monthly rate). The P5 entry reflects that the mid-month amount was $500.00 and the
     end-of-month payment amount will be $500.00. A 3504 transaction is input after mid-month cut-
     off with an effective date equal to the 21st of the prior month changing the BAQ entitlement to the
     partial rate ($15.00 monthly rate). The BAQ and VHA entitlement adjustments are as follows:


     CURRENT MONTH                                               PRIOR MONTH
             - 600.00                      BAQ                   - 200.00
             + 15.00                       BAQ                   + 5.00
             - 300.00                      VHA                   - 100.00
             - 885.00                      NET                   - 295.00


         70.3.5.1.1. Suspended DQ and 86 entries are established for the $295.00 prior month net enti-
         tlement adjustment. The DQ entry will remain unchanged and suspended until a DQ18 or
         DQ20 transaction is processed or the collection is automatically started as discussed in para-
         graph 70.3.2.5. Suspended DQ and 86 entries are established for $385.00 ($500.00 - $885.00)
         which will be automatically collected the next month. The P5 entry will reflect an
         end-of-month payment amount equal to zero.
     70.3.5.2. Example 2: There is an open BAQ entry ($600.00 monthly rate) and an open VHA entry
     ($300.00 monthly rate). The P5 entry reflects that the mid-month payment amount will be
     $500.00 and the end-of-month payment amount will be $500.00. A 3504 transaction is input prior
     to mid-month cutoff with an effective date equal to the 21st of the prior month changing the BAQ
     entitlement to the partial rate ($15.00 monthly rate). The BAQ and VHA entitlement adjustments
     are as follows:


     CURRENT MONTH                                               PRIOR MONTH
             - 600.00                      BAQ                   - 200.00
             + 15.00                       BAQ                   + 5.00
             - 300.00                      VHA                   - 100.00
             - 885.00                      NET                   - 295.00
         70.3.5.2.1. Suspended DQ and 86 entries are established for the $295.00 prior month net enti-
         tlement adjustment. The DQ entry remains unchanged and suspended until a DQ18 or DQ20
         transaction is processed or the collection is automatically started as discussed in paragraph
         70.3.2.5. The P5 entry will reflect a mid-month amount of $57.50 and an end-of-month
         amount equal to $57.50.
1084                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


70.4. Overpayment for DW Repayment. When the FSO requests a repayment on a DW indebtedness,
DFAS-DE cancels the DW entry and establishes a DQ entry for the balance due current month. This DQ
entry is strictly controlled by DFAS-DE and may not be adjusted by the FSO.

70.5. Excess Leave Computations and Collections. A member is indebted for excess leave when, at
DOS, a negative leave balance is present. Since a member can’t accrue leave for excess leave, a
non-accrual for the number of excess leave days is added to the negative leave balance. This non-accrual
is charged at the same rate as normal accrual (0-6 is 1/2, 7-12 is 1, 13-18 is 1 1/2, 19-24 is 2, and 25-30 is
2 1/2). If, for example, the member has a -20.0 leave balance at DOS, a non-accrual charge of 2.0 days
would be added to the -20.0, for a total collection of -22.0 excess leave days. Members in excess leave are
not entitled to pay and allowances. See DoDFMR (DoD Financial Management Regulation), Volume 7A,
chapter 1, paragraph 010301, subparagraph E.
Example:
       Balance Brought Forward as of 1 Jan 07:        30.0 days
       Earned through Separation on 31 Oct 07:        25.0 days
       Used                                           75.0 days (leave periods 1-20 Mar,
                                                      1-15 May, 1-30 Jun, 1-10 Oct)
       Balance                                        -20.0
       *Non-Accrual                                   -2.0    (.5 days for every 6 days)
       Total Excess LV collected                      -22.0
Leave dates pay and allowances collected: 1 – 10 Oct and 19 – 30 Jun; 22 days total.
   70.5.1. Computing Periods of Excess Leave. In determining the period of leave to be collected as
   excess, begin with the last chargeable leave taken and count back from last day of this leave until the
   total excess leave period is accounted for. If more than one leave is involved, follow the same proce-
   dures. Any non-chargeable leave is not counted as part of the excess leave period computation.
   Research the MCF, LES history, and MMPA, and/or contact DFAS-DE, if all the excess leave periods
   are not found.
   70.5.2. Computing the Amount of Collection. The excess leave cost is determined by the rate of pay
   in effect for the period of excess leave and not the rate in effect at DOS. When computing the actual
   excess leave rate, use the rate in effect for each day of the excess leave period. If the member's pay rate
   changed during the excess leave period, two rates are involved for the leave. Excess leave before the
   rate change is charged at the old rate(s). Excess leave on or after the rate change is charged at the new
   rate(s). Do not round any fractional cents. All pay and allowances are subject to collection for excess
   leave. If the excess leave results in a half-day, then the member is only charged for the half-day plus
   half-day non-accrual. No rounding up or down of half days is permissible (the fractional one-half day
   is considered to occur on the first day of the excess leave involved, per DoDFMR, Volume 7A, table
   1-11, note 6). When computing the excess leave amount, always use the rate in effect on the last day
   of the leave.
   70.5.3. DELETED
       70.5.3.1. DELETED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              1085


       70.5.3.2. DELETED.
       70.5.3.3. DELETED.
   70.5.4. DELETED
       70.5.4.1. DELETED.
       70.5.4.2. DELETED.
       70.5.4.3. DELETED.
       70.5.4.4. DELETED.
       70.5.4.5. DELETED.
       70.5.4.6. DELETED.
       70.5.4.7. DELETED.
   70.5.5. DELETED
   70.5.6. DELETED.

70.6. Health Professionals Special Pays. This indebtedness arises when a medical or dental officer sep-
arates before serving the period of active duty required in a contract he or she executed for receipt of addi-
tional special pay (physicians and dentists) or incentive special pay (physicians). The amount of the debt
is computed at DOS-10 days and the FSO receives an XS03 management notice. The indebtedness is a
pro rata portion of the unserved contract period to the total amount of special pay received under the con-
tract (all contracts are written for 1 year). When the member separates voluntarily and will be indebted to
the United States for recoupment of medical or dental special pay and does not elect to settle before dis-
charge, the member signs a promissory note containing agreement for judgment (see Figure 70.1.). The
amount shown on the promissory note will be after the computer has deducted all pay due at separation.
This promissory note is prepared in original and two copies and is filed in the member's separation work
file; the member receives one copy. The indebtedness is recorded on the MMPA as a DQ by DFAS-DE/
JFPA.

70.7. Excess Cost of HHG/Trailer Move. Indebtedness for excess cost is created when a member's
shipment of household goods (HHG) exceeds the authorized weight allowance or the shipment of a house
trailer exceeds the authorized mileage rate. The Defense Finance and Accounting Service – Indianapolis
Center (DFAS-IN) receives the carrier's bill and makes the payment for the shipment. DFAS-IN makes an
initial determination as to whether the member has a potential excess cost, based on the billing from the
carrier and the member's authorized weight allowance or mileage rate, and notifies JPPSO-SAT/ECAF of
the excess costs, if any.
   70.7.1. If a member has an excess cost, JPPSO-SAT/ECAF (ISI 8630) takes all related action, includ-
   ing processing the necessary transactions. They will prepare a DD Form 139, forward it to the mem-
   ber's servicing FSO (for informational purposes only), and provide due process (notify the member of
   the indebtedness and the options). In addition, JPPSO-SAT/ECAF does the DR01 transaction input
   and suspends collection of the indebtedness (DR transaction formats are shown in Figure 70.9.
   through Figure 70.12.).
   70.7.2. Collection Procedures.
1086                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       70.7.2.1. The member has 30 days to submit a rebuttal letter or a remission application, or make
       cash payment. If the member opts to file a remission or pay by cash, the FSO must notify the local
       TMO office and JPPSO-SAT/ECAF to ensure no collection action is taken by them and no rebuttal
       has been submitted. In this case, all necessary action is taken by the FSO. If the member takes no
       action with the FSO or JPPSO-SAT/ECAF after the 30 day notification, JPPSO-SAT/ECAF, as the
       owner of the debt, will resume collection of the indebtedness by processing a DR20.
       70.7.2.2. Cash collection. The cash collection is processed through the FSO using a CP voucher
       number. Process a C203 transaction for the amount of the balance due current month, plus current
       month deduction. In the C203 transaction, cite either P510 or P530 appropriation and not the fund
       citation for the excess cost. A cash collection may not be made for less than the balance due cur-
       rent month, plus current month deduction.
       70.7.2.3. Rebuttal not submitted within 30 days. Contact the transportation management office
       (TMO) to see if the member plans to submit a rebuttal. If the rebuttal will be submitted within 3
       working days, do not process a DR20/DS20 transaction. Otherwise, process a DR20/DS20 trans-
       action with a reason suspense code 0 (zero) to begin collection. If a rebuttal is submitted later,
       continue collection action. Any refund due the member will be made after final adjudication of
       the rebuttal letter by JPPSO-SAT/ECAF.
   70.7.3. A copy of the DD Form 139 will not be returned to JPPSO-SAT/ECAF when action on the DD
   Form 139 is complete.

70.8. Rebuttal of Excess Cost. A rebuttal letter may be submitted by an officer or enlisted member
(active or separated) when he or she believes the excess cost charges for shipment of HHGs or a trailer are
not correct. Only one rebuttal may be submitted for each overweight charge, unless new evidence is pre-
sented which has a bearing on the excess cost. Restatement of a previous allegation is not considered new
evidence. The rebuttal has to be completely adjudicated by JPPSO-SAT/ECAF, before the member sub-
mits a remission application, as the debt amount may increase or decrease. The FSO must determine
whether a rebuttal is pending if a remission application is submitted.
   70.8.1. If the member contacts the FSO for a rebuttal, the FSO advises the member to contact the
   local TMO for proper counseling and rebuttal procedures.
       70.8.1.1. The member must submit a rebuttal letter to the local TMO within 30 days of the notifi-
       cation of indebtedness. JPPSO-SAT/ECAF will begin collection action after 30 days if a rebuttal
       letter has not been submitted.
       70.8.1.2. The TMO receives the member's rebuttal letter and reviews it for completeness and
       accuracy. The TMO then forwards a copy of the TMO's transmittal letter to the FSO and the orig-
       inal package to JPPSO-SAT/ECAF, 8961 Tesoro Drive, Suite 300, San Antonio TX 78286-6209.
       The rebuttal package must contain at least the following documents:
           70.8.1.2.1. Member's rebuttal letter.
           70.8.1.2.2. Copy of DD Form 139
           70.8.1.2.3. TDY or PCS orders with all amendments.
   70.8.2. Adjudication of the Rebuttal Letter. Upon adjudication, JPPSO-SAT/ECAF will take the nec-
   essary steps to increase or decrease the debt amount, or start collection.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1087


       70.8.2.1. Collection Procedures. JPPSO-SAT/ECAF will input a DR05 transaction to correct
       (increase or decrease) the amount of specific indebtedness. If the amount did not change, they
       process a DR20 to start (resume) collection of the original amount or a DR21 to forgive a portion
       (or all) of the indebtedness.
       70.8.2.2. JPPSO-SAT/ECAF notifies the member of the adjudication of the rebuttal letter and also
       forwards a copy of the letter to the TMO.
   70.8.3. DELETED
       70.8.3.1. DELETED
       70.8.3.2. DELETED
   70.8.4. Erroneously Processed DR01. If a DR01 transaction was erroneously processed against the
   MMPA and the current month is not the start date on the MMPA, contact DFAS-DE via CMS case for
   corrective action, including a statement of all pertinent facts in the case. If refund is requested for a
   pending rebuttal, state the date of JPPSO-SAT/ECAF’s written notification to the member, the date of
   the member's rebuttal letter, and the TMO's transmittal letter. No refund will be made until the rebuttal
   letter has been completely adjudicated unless the DR20 transaction was processed before 30 days
   after written notification to the member.

Section 70B—Advance Payments and Casual and Partial Payments.

70.9. Advance Payments (DV). The computer generates a DV indebtedness entry when an advance pay-
ment (PA) is posted to the MMPA. A repayment schedule of 12 or 24 months is established from the
PA03 transaction. The DV entry will begin collecting the processing month following the date of the
voucher payment. If the date of the voucher is the current processing month, the computer will suspend
the DV entry with an action indicator 18. A DV future-type L is created to open the DV entry the first
update on or after the first day of the next calendar month. If a 12-month repayment schedule was estab-
lished in the DV entry when a 24-month repayment schedule was approved, process a DT04 to change the
monthly deduction amount. The member also has the option to make partial repayments in cash. Process
cash collection transaction on a DD 1131 as a C203. Figure 65.4. shows the correct format. The repay-
ment schedule may not be for more than 24 months from the start date of the original DV entry unless the
advance is an advance payment of overseas housing allowance. (See Chapter 30.) To determine whether
you have any overdue advances, the “Advance Pay Repayment Past Due Date” Report (UH099C0374) is
available on SAR. It can be accessed by JFAREG FA0374M. Check this report quarterly and take correc-
tive action if necessary. To determine whether you have any overdue advances, the “advance pay repay-
ment past due date” report (UH099C0374) is available on SAR. It can be accessed by JFAREG
FA0374M. Check this report quarterly and take corrective action if necessary.

70.10. Casual and Partial Payments (DW). Casual and partial payments are not automatically pro-
rated. Before making a casual or partial payment, the FSO must advise the member that the payment must
be collected before any further payments are made to the member.
   70.10.1. When a casual or partial payment is posted to the MMPA, the computer automatically col-
   lects any funds available in the P5 entry to satisfy the casual or partial payment. If the P5 entry does
   not have enough funds to satisfy collection, the computer generates a DW entry for any balance due
   after the current month P5 entry is reduced to zero. The DW entry is suspended with an action indica-
1088                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   tor Q8. A DQ suspense-type 2 is created to open the DW entry the first update on or after the first day
   of the next calendar month.
   70.10.2. If the DW deduction creates a financial hardship, the member may request a repayment
   schedule from the FSO. The member's request must be in writing with an AF Form 2451, Financial
   Statement - Remission of Indebtedness, and a letter from the member's unit commander attached. The
   FSO may not approve a repayment schedule for more than 12 months from the start date of the origi-
   nal DW entry.
   70.10.3. If the FSO approves a repayment schedule, a CMS case must be established for DFAS-DE
   requesting the repayment schedule be established. The message must state the date of the member's
   request, the date of the FSO's approval, and the number of months scheduled for repayment. The DW
   entry will be changed to a DQ entry for the amount of the balance due plus current month deduction.
   The repayment schedule will be established for the number of months approved, minus the number of
   months previously collected.

70.11. Compensation Received From Non-Government Sources (DS). No member may retain any
compensation or stipend received from non-government sources for performing any duty or service as
part of his or her military function. This dual compensation received must be turned in to the FSO. See
37 Comp. Gen. 29 (1957). If member does not elect to turn in the money, an involuntary deduction can be
made from the member's pay (see paragraph 70.18. for medical stipend). If member pays cash or has a
payroll deduction, cite 573210.9999 S380100. Normally, a DD Form 139 is submitted to the FSO, but a
cover letter may be submitted in lieu of it as long as it indicates the member was first notified about the
debt and copies of the AF Form 118, Refund of Tuition Assistance-Education Services Program, and AF
Form 1227, Authority for Tuition Assistance-Education Services Program, are attached. A multiple DD
Form 139 or cover letter, not to exceed 15 members, may be accepted.

70.12. Jury Duty Fees and Witness Fees. When a member performs jury duty or acts as a witness and
is not in a leave status, he or she is indebted to the United States Government for the fees received for jury
duty or acting as a witness. The member may keep monies received and identified as for expenses (for
example, transportation expenses) whether or not in a leave status. If the member cannot make a cash
payment for the debt, process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness-type V, citing appropriation
573210.9999 and ADSN 380100.

Section 70C—Miscellaneous Indebtedness.

70.13. Overpayment of Advance Travel and Travel Costs. An indebtedness for overpayment of
advance travel is generated when a member files a DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher, or
when an advance travel payment is made and the member does not perform the travel.
   70.13.1. When an indebtedness is identified, Travel notifies the member of the debt. If the member
   does not pay the debt, Travel prepares a DD Form 139 and forwards it to Military Pay for collection.
   The repayment must be collected by DOS, and the minimum monthly repayment is $50. A DS01
   transaction with indebtedness type P is processed to begin collection.
   70.13.2. The appropriate FSO’s D company code (if the base hasn’t cutover to the AFFSC) or the D
   company code for the AFFSC (if already cutover) should be used in the DS01 transaction. This
   applies to all travel debts, including open allotment citing station 525725, as well as other Military
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1089


   Services. Appropriations should not be used for any Travel Miscellaneous debts (format ID DS type
   P); this will ensure the debt is cleared out of the paying travel system.

70.14. Cost-Charge Transportation Request (TR). A member on leave in your area may be issued a
TR for return travel to his/her duty station. The cost of this TR is deducted from the member's MMPA.
   70.14.1. If the TR is issued by a Scheduled Airline Ticket Office (SATO), a billing is received by the
   travel SMA. Travel pays the billing and furnishes a copy of the paid voucher to Military Pay. Military
   Pay processes a PC03 transaction, using the T disbursement voucher number for the cost of the TR.
   (See Chapter 36, for processing instructions.)
   70.14.2. If the TR is issued by a non-SATO, the issuing office bills DFAS-IN and sends the member's
   servicing FSO a letter advising of the TR. The latter information is used only to answer customer
   inquiries. DFAS-IN pays the billing and forwards documentation to DFAS-DE for collection from the
   member's MMPA.
   70.14.3. When a member reports for transportation requiring travel between CONUS and overseas or
   between overseas areas, an MTA is issued. Cost charge MTAs are all sent directly to HQ AMC/
   ACIA. Upon receipt of the MTA, ACIA prepares an SF Form 1080, Voucher for Transfer Between
   Appropriations and/or Funds, for processing of a PC03 against the member's MMPA by the Scott
   AFB finance office (525300) using a "T" disbursement voucher number for the cost of the MTA.

70.15. FHA Mortgage Insurance. When a member is indebted to the Air Force for Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance, process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type H. Cite
the appropriation 57X7045 83X 4213 P733 380100 in the DS01 transaction. This debt is considered an
erroneous payment and is to be collected involuntarily. An officer may not refuse to have deduction made
for the debt.

70.16. Damage to Family Housing Unit or Unaccompanied Personnel Housing Unit (Dormitory).
A member may become indebted as a result of a report of survey that assesses liability for damage, failure
to satisfactorily clean or loss of equipment or furnishings to family housing or dormitories (see AFMAN
23-220). DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, supports the DD Form 139
received from FM/ALO. A member's signature in block 16 of the DD Form 200 assures that he or she has
been notified of the financial liability. (If signature is absent, return the documents to FM/ALO, who will
then return the DD Form 200 to the reports of survey administrator.) For remission information refer to
Chapter 73.

70.17. Medical Care Charges. See Chapter 49 for collection of medical care charges.

70.18. Medical Officer Furnished Stipend. This indebtedness can be created from two sources:
   70.18.1. Stipend received for compensation from a state, county, municipality, or a privately owned
   hospital by an active duty medical officer while performing medical services.
   70.18.2. Overpayment of stipend received from DFAS-DE Reserve Pay while the medical officer was
   attending school before commissioning in the Air Force. DFAS-DE/FJP forwards a DD Form 139 to
   the FSO for entering the debt and notifying the member. If the member elects to pay cash for the over-
   payment, do not input any DJMS transaction unless the debt is already entered on the MMPA.
1090                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   70.18.3. The hospital forwards a statement as to the amount of the stipend received per subparagraph
   a above to the FSO and MPF. The FSO holds the statement in suspense pending receipt of the DD
   Form 114, Military Pay Order (MPO), from MPF. If member pays cash or permits a payment deduc-
   tion, cite 573210.9999 S380100 for the amount of the stipend received.

70.19. Housing. A member may become indebted to the housing office for failure to adequately clean
government quarters upon termination of assignment to those quarters. The housing office must notify the
member of the charges and request payment. If the member refuses or does not respond to the notification,
the housing office prepares a DD Form 139 and forwards it to the member's servicing FSO. The DD Form
139 must indicate when the housing office notified the member of the debt. The FSO processes a DS01
transaction with indebtedness-type J and D company code of the Housing Office; if the Housing Office
doesn’t have its own D company code, request one following the procedures in Chapter 60 of this man-
ual, and use the D company code of the local FSO in the interim.

70.20. Replacement Checks and FSO-Accepted Dishonored Checks. A m e m b e r m a y b e c o m e
indebted for a replacement check when the original and replacement check were cashed, or for a personal
check the FSO cashed which was dishonored, or for a check, accepted for payment of a debt, which was
dishonored. These debts may be increased by the amount of any associated administrative, interest, or
penalty charges that are assessed. The member must be notified of the debt and asked to make immediate
payment to the FSO. If the member refuses or does not respond to the notification, prepare a DD Form
139 and process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness-type D and the FSO's D prefix company code.
   70.20.1. When the Treasury Department denies the FSO's request to cancel an original check indicat-
   ing the member has cashed both the original and replacement check, for any repayment by the mem-
   ber, prepare a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, crediting account 57F3880. Paying and
   Collecting records the collection in accountability records as a refund and as an increase to deposits or
   cash on hand per DoDFMR Volume 5.
   70.20.2. When the FSO cashes a check other than a commissary check, which is later dishonored, col-
   lection can be made from the MMPA for up to two-thirds of the member's pay. (See DoDFMR, Vol-
   ume 7A, chapter 50, table 50-6, rule 2.)
   70.20.3. FSOs are authorized to cash checks for other Service members under certain circumstances
   under the authority of the inter-service check cashing agreement. Upon receipt of a dishonored check,
   the cashing member and the service's point of contact are notified. If consent to collect voluntarily was
   obtained by virtue of a check cashing consent notice posted at the cashier's cage, annotate the DD
   Form 139 for Army and Air Force members only and proceed with collection action. Do not attempt
   to collect from Navy or Marine Corps personnel on the basis of the check cashing notice. For these
   and other involuntary collections, the member is advised of responsibility to make direct payment to
   the FSO by the next payday and shall be provided with at least 30 days' written notice of due process
   in accordance with DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 50. If the payment is not received within 30 days,
   the FSO submits a DD Form 139 to the service disbursing officer currently servicing the member. The
   DD Form 139 must contain the following statement: "Member has been provided due process in
   accordance with DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 50."
   70.20.4. As a condition of exercising the privilege of check cashing, a member may be required to
   sign an agreement consenting to collection by pay offset if his or her check is dishonored. Such con-
   sent is recognized as an effective manifestation of a voluntary consent to collect from current pay. As
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1091


   a voluntary collection, neither the due process requirements (paragraph 69.3.) nor the two-thirds rule
   (paragraph 69.7.) apply and the full amount of the debt or a lesser amount determined adequate to pro-
   tect the interests of the government may be immediately collected by pay offset. This consent to col-
   lect statement is suspended where accommodation check cashing services are being provided and a
   check cashing consent notice is posted.

70.21. Subsistence and Meal Charge Indebtedness for Deployed Members. Subsistence and Meal
Charge indebtedness for deployed members will be treated as follows. Members who are to be deployed
to overseas locations without food service or commissary facilities may purchase and ship non-perishable
consumable subsistence items from the food service officer. These shipments are in the range of 1000 to
3000 pounds. In these cases, the FSO receives a DD Form 139 from the food service officer which has a
list of items, amounts, and PCS orders present. The FSO holds the DD Form 139 for up to 2 months until
the member's COLA for the overseas assignment is started, then processes the DS01 transaction. The DD
Form 139 should state "monies will be collected from member over the following 12 months. Process a
DS01 transaction with indebtedness-Type V, citing the appropriation on the DD Form 139. Collect using
the rate in effect when the meal charged occurred.

70.22. Debts Established as a Result of OSI Investigations. When an OSI report indicates a debt
should be established, it is the responsibility of the FSO where the member is assigned to ensure that the
debt is verified, computed, and established. These actions will normally be taken by the organization
responsible for the subject matter of the debt. If the member has departed PCS, issue a DD Form 139
(with supporting documentation) to the member's gaining FSO as outlined in Chapter 2. If the member
has separated, establish the debt and follow procedures outlined in DoDFMR, Vol 5, chapter 29, and AFI
65-114. In all cases, the initiating FSO must provide a report to DFAS-JECE/DE as outlined in DoDFMR,
Vol 5, chapter 28.

70.23. Air Force Education Assistance. Upon determination that a member is in debt for Air Force edu-
cational assistance, the education office must notify the member of the amount of the debt. Notification
will be accomplished by returning a copy of the AF Form 118 to the member. If the member does not
make a cash payment within 30 days, the education office will prepare a DD Form 139 with copies of AF
Forms 118 and 1227 attached. The DD Form 139 with attachments will then be forwarded to FM/ALO for
collection action. FM/ALO establishes the account receivable and forwards the DD Form 139 to customer
support, who processes a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type U and the D prefix company code of
the education office.

70.24. RESERVED.
   70.24.1. DELETED.
   70.24.2. DELETED.

70.25. Telephone and Utility Bills and Trailer Space Rental. A member may become indebted to the
government for charges of telephone bills, utility bills (under AFI 33-111), and trailer space rental. The
member must be notified of the charges and asked to make payment by the activity assessing the charges.
If the base accounts receivable system (BARS) is not in use, process a DS01 transaction with indebted-
ness type K and the D prefix company code shown in the appropriation data field on the DD Form 139. If
1092                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


BARS is utilized, the collection is made by DJMS-AC via posting a partial (PK) every month using a file
from the appropriate office.

70.26. Billeting. A member may become indebted to the billeting office for failure to pay the charges for
government quarters while on leave or TDY. When a member checks out of quarters, he or she is required
to clear through the billeting office and pay for the charges at that time. If the member refuses or cannot
make payment, the billeting office prepares a DD Form 139 and forwards it to the FSO. The DD Form
139 must indicate when the billeting office notified the member of the debt. The FSO processes a DS01
transaction with indebtedness type J. If the billeting office is Air Force, the D prefix company code of the
billeting office must be shown in the appropriation data field on the DD Form 139. If the billeting office
is Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard, the FSO gets the D-prefix company of the billeting office
from Table 50.

70.27. Salary Offset. In accordance with the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and 5 U.S.C. 5514, DJMS-AC
provides salary offset collections from members pay to non-DoD agencies. A list of these agencies can be
viewed on DJMS table 401.
   70.27.1. Salary offset debts are received by DJMS for collection from members’ pay.
   70.27.2. Collection of the salary offset will be established as a miscellaneous debt (DS) with
   INDEBT-TYPE T.
   70.27.3. DELETED.
   70.27.4. Deduction is limited to 15 percent of disposable pay. Disposable pay is defined in paragraph
   69.7.1.
   70.27.5. Current system processing accelerates salary offset debts at separation.
   70.27.6. Collection for the salary offset will start upon processing of the tape cartridge. Due process
   has already been provided by the creditor agency. The system provides a courtesy notice of pending
   collection action (Figure 69.2. DJMS-AC Notification Letter).

70.28. Other Miscellaneous Debts. Debts listed below are collected using the procedures in this para-
graph. Contact your MAJCOM if questions arise on whether a debt not listed may be deducted from a
member’s pay. These collections are involuntary.
   70.28.1. These debts include the following:
       70.28.1.1. Education assistance. (VA over-payments require member's consent for collection.)
       70.28.1.2. All library charges.
       70.28.1.3. Accommodation transactions.
   70.28.2. Documentation must be provided to the FSO to support the collection action. The initiating
   office must have first contacted the member before requesting deduction.
   70.28.3. Normally, a DD Form 139 is submitted to the FSO, but any acceptable form may be submit-
   ted as long as the form or attachments indicate the member has already been notified of the debt. If
   one FSO prepares a DD Form 139 for a member, but the funds pertain to another FSO, send one copy
   of the form, after posting, to the other FSO.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1093


   70.28.4. Process a DS01 transaction with the appropriate indebtedness-type code to begin collection.
   The D company code belonging to the originator of the debt is used in the DS01 transaction. If the
   originator doesn’t have a D company code, request one in accordance with procedures in Chapter 60
   of this volume and use the D company code for the FSO in the interim.

70.29. Meal Charges (FID DN). See paragraph 25.8.
1094                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.1. Promissory Note.


             PROMISSORY NOTE CONTAINING AGREEMENT FOR JUDGMENT




$________________________________________                                    _____________, 19______


For value received, I (we jointly and severally) promise to pay to the order of the Treasurer of the United
States the sum of __________ Dollars, with interest at the rate of _________per annum, in monthly
installments of not less than _________Dollars each, payable at the
_________________________________
on or before the first day of each calendar month until such obligation is fully paid. If any such install-
ment shall remain unpaid for a period of 10 days, the entire amount of this obligation, with interest, less
payments actually made, shall thereupon become immediately due and payable at the option of
_________________________________________ representing the United States without demand or
notice, said demand and notice being hereby expressly waived.


I (we) do hereby authorize and empower any United States Attorney, Assistant United States Attorney, or
any attorney of any court of record, state or federal, to appear for me (us) and to enter and confess judg-
ment against me (us) for the entire amount of this obligation, with interest, less payments actually made,
at any time after the same becomes due and payable, as herein provided, in any court of record, federal or
state; to waive the issuance and service of process upon me (us) in any suit on this obligation; to waive
any venue requirement in such suit; to release all errors which may intervene in entering up such judg-
ment or in issuing any execution thereon; and to consent to immediate execution on said judgment.
I (we) hereby ratify and confirm all that said attorney may do by virtue hereof.




______________________________________________________




______________________________________________________
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                1095


Figure 70.2. Formats to Start/Stop, Change, Correct, Cancel or Suspend Collection of GPLD or
Report of Survey.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0DG01/02


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23       YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM DEDUCTION STARTS OR ZEROS


     26-29       YEAR-MONTH-STOP: YYMM DEDUCTION STOPS OR ZEROS


     32-38       AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: AMOUNT OF TOTAL
                 INDEBTEDNESS


     39-44       MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT. BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02

     45-46       CALENDAR-YEAR: YY INDEBTEDNESS OCCURRED


     48-54       INDEBTEDNESS-AMOUNT-FORGIVEN: ACTUAL AMOUNT OF
                 INDEBTEDNESS FORGIVEN OR ZEROS


     55-58       ADSN WHERE REPORT OF SURVEY WAS INITIATED OR BLANK FOR
                 GPLD


     59-67       REPORT-OF-SURVEY-NUMBER: REPORT OF SURVEY NUMBER OR
                 BLANK IF GPLD


      1-5        0DG04


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME
1096                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                               DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       20-23   YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


       32-38   AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: AMOUNT OF SPECIFIC
               INDEBTEDNESS


       39-44   AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-DEDUCTION-CURRENT MONTH: NEW MONTHLY
               DEDUCTION AMOUNT. ZERO-FILLED IF ADSN AND/OR REPORT OF
               SURVEY NUMBER ARE BEING CHANGED


       45-46   CALENDAR-YEAR: YY INDEBTEDNESS OCCURRED


       55-58   ADSN WHERE REPORT OF SURVEY WAS INITIATED OR BLANK FOR
               GPLD


       59-67   REPORT-OF-SURVEY-NUMBER: REPORT OF SURVEY NUMBER; BLANK IF
               NOT CHANGING OR FOR GPLD


        1-5    0DG05


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23   YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM CORRECTION IS EFFECTIVE



       32-38   AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: NEW, CORRECT SPECIFIC
               INDEBTEDNESS AMOUNT; BLANK IF NOT CORRECTING


       39-44   AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-DEDUCTION-CURRENT MONTH: NEW, CORRECT
               MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT; BLANK IF NOT CORRECTING


       45-46   CALENDAR-YEAR: CORRECT YY INDEBTEDNESS OCCURRED; BLANK
               IF NOT CORRECTING
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            1097


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   49-55  AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: AMOUNT OF SPECIFIC
          INDEBTEDNESS ON MMPA


    56-59    PRIOR-YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF LAST ACTION ON MMPA


    62-65    PRIOR-YEAR-MONTH-STOP: ZEROS


     1-5     0DG06


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-23    YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF CURRENT PROCESSING MONTH


    32-38    AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS ON
             MMPA


    45-46    CALENDAR-YEAR: CALENDAR YEAR ON MMPA


    48-54    INDEBTEDNESS-AMOUNT-FORGIVEN: SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS
             (EQUAL TO CP 32-38)

     55      APPLICABLE CODE:
             3—CANCELED
             4--MEMBER NOT RESPONSIBLE


    56-59    PRIOR-YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF START ON MMPA


     1-5     0DG18


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
1098                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       20-23   YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM SUSPENSION IS EFFECTIVE


       30-33   YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF START ON MMPA


       36-42   AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS ON
               MMPA


        58     INDEBTEDNESS-REASON-SUSPENSION CODE:
               1--WAIVER APPLICATION
               2--REMISSION APPLICATION
               3--APPEAL OR REBUTTAL


        59     PAY-HELD-REASON CODE:
               CODE B--COMMANDER’S REQUEST, OTHERWISE, BLANK


       60-65   AMOUNT OF PAY TO BE HELD MONTHLY OR ZEROS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               1099


Figure 70.3. Formats to Suspend or Remit GPLD or Report of Survey.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0DG20


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM COLLECTION IS RESUMED


     36-42      AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS ON
                MMPA


     43-48      MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT. (COMMANDER’S REQUEST ONLY)


       59       PAY-HELD-DISPOSITION CODE:
                1--RELEASE TO MEMBER (COMMANDER’S REQUEST ONLY)
                5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
                6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS. RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER--USED
                ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR THE INDEBTEDNESS; OTHERWISE, ZERO


      1-5       0DG21


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM REMITTANCE IS EFFECTIVE


     36-42      AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS: SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS ON
                MMPA


     43-48      MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT
1100                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                       DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     58    INDEBTEDNESS-CANCELLATION-DECISION CODE:
           1--WAIVER APPROVED
               2--REMISSION GRANTED
               3--INDEBTEDNESS CANCELED
               4--MEMBER NOT RESPONSIBLE


        59     PAY-HELD-DISPOSITION CODE:
               1--RELEASE TO MEMBER
               5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
               6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS, RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER; USED
               ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR THE INDEBTEDNESS, OTHERWISE, ZERO


       60-66   INDEBTEDNESS-AMOUNT-FORGIVEN: AMOUNT FORGIVEN
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         1101


Figure 70.4. Format to Start Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       DQ01 (ONE-RECORD TRANSACTION) OR
                ADQ01 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      YYMM DEDUCTION STARTS


     24-29      YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT STARTED


     30-35      YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT ENDED


     36-44      AMOUNT OF TOTAL INDEBTEDNESS


     45-52      MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


     53-54      MEMBER’S GRADE AT TIME OF OVERPAYMENT


     55-63      FIRST ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT AMOUNT


     64-65      FORMAT-ID FOR FIRST ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT


       66       DESCRIPTIVE DATA APPLICABLE TO FIRST ENTITLEMENT CODE, (SEE
                NOTE AT END OF FORMAT)


       67       INDEBTEDNESS SUSPENSION REASON CODE:
                0--NOT APPLICABLE
                1--WAIVER APPLICATION (DFAS-DE ONLY)
                2—REMISSION APPLICATION
                3--APPEAL OR REBUTTAL
1102                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
               5--MEMBER REQUIRES MORE THAN 30 DAYS NOTIFICATION DUE TO
               LEAVE, TDY, ETC.
               9--XY03 MANAGEMENT NOTICE ISSUED, AWAITING FSO/MEMBER
               ACTION (COMPUTER GENERATED)


        1-5    1DQ01 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD)


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-28   SECOND ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT AMOUNT


       29-30   FORMAT-ID FOR SECOND ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT


        31     DESCRIPTIVE DATA APPLICABLE TO SECOND ENTITLEMENT CODE,
               (SEE NOTE AT END OF FORMAT)


       32-40   THIRD ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT AMOUNT


       41-42   FORMAT-ID FOR THIRD ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT


        43     DESCRIPTIVE DATA APPLICABLE TO THIRD ENTITLEMENT CODE, (SEE
               NOT AT END OF FORMAT)
       44-52   FOURTH ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT AMOUNT


       53-54   FORMAT-ID FOR FOURTH ENTITLEMENT OVERPAYMENT


        55     DESCRIPTIVE DATA APPLICABLE TO FOURTH ENTITLEMENT CODE,
               (SEE NOTE AT END OF FORMAT)


        56     NOE INDICATOR CODE:
               1--NOT FROM NOE
               2--FROM NOE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       1103


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   57-58  NUMBER OF YEARS CREDITABLE SERVICE FOR COMPUTING MEDICAL
          OR DENTAL PAY; USED ONLY WHEN FORMAT-ID IS 19, 20, 24 OR 25


     OR


    57-58    NUMBER OF YEARS CREDITABLE SERVICE FOR COMPUTING CAREER
             SEA PAY OR CAREER SEA PAY PREMIUM; USED ONLY WHEN FORMAT ID
             IS 27 OR 37


    59-63    APPLICABLE JFTR LOCATION CODE WHEN FORMAT-ID IS 42, 43, 44, 45,
             46, 47, 49, 55, 56 OR 57; APPLICABLE ZIP CODE WHEN FORMAT-ID IS 66, 67
             AND 68 BLANK IF NO JFTR OR ZIP CODE


     OR


     59      FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILL LEVEL--1 THROUGH 4


     60      FOREIGN LANGUAGE DIFFICULTY CATEGORY--1 THROUGH 4


    61-63    BLANK


    64-65    FOREIGN LANGUAGE CODE


     OR


    64-65    PROFICIENCY PAY TYPE


     OR


    65-65    COUNTRY WORLD CODE


     66      SRB/VRB MULTIPLIER OR ZERO IF NOT APPLICABLE


     67      BAS LOCATION – CONUS = 1, OCONUS = 2, N/A = SPACE
1104                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
             NOTE: DESCRIPTIVE DATA APPLICABLE TO FORMAT-ID:


             FLYING DUTY (12):
             1--CREW MEMBER ENLISTED
             2--NON-CREW MEMBER
             3--NON-RATED OFFICER CREW MEMBER
             4--AWACS CREW MEMBER
             A--$125.00
             B-- 156.00
             C-- 188.00
             D-- 200.00
             E-- 206.00
             F-- 385.00
             G-- 495.00
             H-- 585.00
             I -- 650.00


             STRESS-DUTY (16):
             1--HUMAN ACCELERATION OR DECELERATION EXPERIMENTAL
             SUBJECT
             2--THERMAL STRESS DUTY
             3--HIGH OR LOW PRESSURE CHAMBER DUTY
             4--TOXIC FUEL HANDLERS/REPELLENTS
             5--DANGEROUS VIRUSES OR BACTERIA LAB DUTY
             6--TOXIC PESTICIDES DUTY
             7--CHEMICAL MUNITIONS


             OVERSEAS EXTENSION PAY (18):
             1-12 MONTHS


             BOARD CERTIFICATION PAY (19):
             A--BOARD CERTIFICATION PAY FOR PHYSICIANS/DENTISTS
             B--BOARD CERTIFICATION PAY FOR NON-PHYSICIANS
             C--VARIABLE SPECIAL PAY FOR PHYSICIANS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 1105


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             D--DIPLOMAT PAY


             DIVING DUTY (21):
             SEE PARAGRAPH 14-4


             HOSTILE FIRE PAY (23):
             1 THROUGH 6


             MEDICAL/DENTAL/NURSE BONUS PAY (25):
             1--MRB, DENTAL (4 YEARS, LEVEL 1, MAXIMUM $14,000)
             2--CONTINUATION PAY, DENTISTS
             5--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, PHYSICIANS
             6--INCENTIVE SPECIAL PAY, PHYSICIANS
             E--MRB, DENTAL (4 YEARS, LEVEL 2, MAXIMUM $12,000
             G--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTIST, $6,000, AT LEAST 3 YEARS BUT
             LESS THAN 8
             H--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTIST $6,000 AT LEAST 8 YEARS BUT
             LESS THAN 10
              I--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTIST, $15,000, AT LEAST 10 YEARS
             BUT LESS
                THAN 12
             K--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTIST, $15,000, OVER 18 YEARS
             L--MRB, DENTAL (3 YEARS, LEVEL 2, MAXIMUM $6,000)
             M--MRB, DENTAL (2 YEARS, LEVEL 2, MAXIMUM $3,000)
             N--CNRA, NURSES
             O--MRB, DENTAL (3 YEARS, LEVEL 1, MAXIMUM $8,000)
             P--MRB, DENTAL (2 YEARS, LEVEL 1, MAXIMUM $4,000)
             Q--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTISTS ($4000)
             R--MSP/MORB, PHYSICIANS
             X--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTISTS ($6000)
             Y--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTISTS ($8000)
             Z--ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY, DENTISTS ($1000)


             ACCESSION BONUS (26):
1106                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
             A--REGISTERED NURSE ACCESSION BONUS
             B--DENTAL OFFICER ACCESSION BONUS

             CAREER SEA PAY (27):
             A--CATEGORY A VESSEL
             C--CATEGORY C VESSEL


             SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY (30):
             SEE PARAGRAPH 11-2 FOR CODES


             REENLISTMENT BONUS (31) OR SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS
             (33):
             1--FIRST TERM
             2--CAREER-UNDER 16 YEARS
             3--CAREER-16 OR MORE YEARS
             4—EXTENSION


             ENGINEERING AND SCIENTIFIC BONUS (32):
             1--3 YEAR CONTRACT
             2--4 YEAR CONTRACT


             SELECTIVE ENLISTMENT BONUS (34):
             1--FIRST TERM
             2--CAREER-UNDER 16 YEARS
             3--CAREER-16 OR MORE YEARS
             4—EXTENSION


             BAQ (35):
             0--WITHOUT DEPENDENT
             1--WITH DEPENDENT
             3--PARTIAL BAQ


             CAREER SEA PAY PREMIUM (37):
             A--CATEGORY A VESSEL
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            1107


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             C--CATEGORY C VESSEL


             AVIATOR CONTINUATION PAY (38):
             A—AVIATOR
             N—NAVIGATOR


             PRORATED AND SUPPLEMENTAL BAS (39)
             D—PRORATED RATIONS
             E—REGULAR SUPPLEMENTAL
             S—PARTIAL SUPPLEMENTAL BAS


             BAS (40):
             A--LEAVE RATIONS
             B--SEPARATE RATIONS (OFFICERS AND ENLISTED)
             C--PCS RATIONS
             H—RATIONS IN KIND
             K--RATIONS UNDER EMERGENCY CONDITIONS
             N—FIELD DUTY RATIONS, CONUS
             O—OFFICER BAS
             P—PARTIAL RATE BAS


             MIHA (42):
             M—MISCELLANEOUS
             R—RENT
             S—SECURITY
             DUAL OHA (45):
             O--WITHOUT DEPENDENTS


             COLA (46) OR COLA (47):
             NUMBER OF PERSONS DEPENDENT UPON MEMBER FOR COLA
             PURPOSES


             HOUSING (55), HOUSING-RENT PLUS (56) OR UNACCOMPANIED
             HOUSING WITH DEPENDENTS-RENT PLUS (57), (43) AND (44):
1108                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
             0--NO DEPENDENTS OR DEPENDENTS NOT IN CUSTODY OF MEMBER
             1--ACCOMPANIED BY DEPENDENTS, MAJOR COMMAND SPONSORED


             UEA INITIAL (59):
             1—ROTC
             2—OTS
             3—AECP
             R—MISCELLANEOUS


             UEA ADDITIONAL (60):
             1--MEDICAL OFFICER
             2--NON-MEDICAL OFFICER


             CLOTHING ALLOWANCE EXTRA (61):
             APPLICABLE CODE FROM Attachment 8


             CMA (63):
             1--BASIC MALE
             2--BASIC FEMALE
             3--STANDARD MALE
             4--STANDARD FEMALE


             FSA (65):
             F--FOREIGN ALASKA (BAQ)
             R--RESTRICTED II (PCS)
             S--SHIP II
             T--TEMPORARY (TDY)


             VHA (66 AND 68):
             0--SINGLE BAQ
             1--WITH DEPENDENT BAQ


             DUAL VHA (67):
             0--SINGLE BAQ
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  1109


CHARACTER                            DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


             LUMP-SUM LEAVE (74):
             1--BASIC PAY
             2--BAQ WITH DEPENDENTS
             3--BAQ WITHOUT DEPENDENTS
             4—BAS


             CIVILIAN CLOTHING ALLOWANCE (82):
             1--SUMMER AND WINTER
             2--SUMMER OR WINTER


             IF SPECIFIC ENTITLEMENT CODE IS NOT LISTED ABOVE, CP IN DQ01
             WILL BE BLANK
1110                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.5. Format to Change Monthly Deduction for Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and
Allowances. (The DQ04 is not programmed to be used on V status records.)


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5     0DQ04


       6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23    YYMM CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


       24-29    YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT STARTED


       30-35    YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT ENDED


       36-44    AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


       45-52    NEW MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                           1111


Figure 70.6. Format to Correct Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0DQ05 (ONE RECORD TRANSACTION) OR
                ADQ05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD) OR
                BDQ05 (TWO TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      YYMM CORRECTION IS EFFECTIVE


     24-29      YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT STARTED FROM MMPA


     30-35      YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT ENDED


     36-44      AMOUNT OF SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS


     45-46      ACTION INDICATOR ON MMPA:
                01—START
                04—CHANGE
                05—CORRECT


       58       ZERO


     60-65      ZEROS


                NOTE:
                THIS IS THE LEAD CARD OF A MULTIPLE-CARD TRANSACTION. THE
                FIRST CARD MATCHES WHAT CURRENTLY IS SHOWN ON THE MMPA
                USING THE FORMAT ABOVE. SUBSEQUENT TRAILER CARDS ARE
                INPUT AS CORRECT DQ DATA USING THE DQ01 FORMAT. ACTION
                INDICATOR 05 IS USED ON ALL RECORDS AND REPEATS THE ORIGINAL
                START DATE
1112                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.7. Formats to Cancel, Suspend Collection, Resume Collection or Remit Indebtedness for
Overpayment of Pay and Allowances.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5      0DQ06


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YYMM OF CURRENT PROCESSING MONTH


       24-29     YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT STARTED FROM MMPA


       30-35     YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT ENDED FROM MMPA


       36-44     AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS


        1-5      0DQ18


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME

       20-23     YYMM SUSPENSION IS EFFECTIVE


       24-29     YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT STARTED FROM MMPA


       30-35     YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT ENDED FROM MMPA


       36-44     AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS


        58       INDEBTEDNESS REASON SUSPENSION CODE:
                 1--WAIVER APPLICATION (DFAS-DE ONLY)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             1113


CHARACTER                               DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
             2--REMISSION APPLICATION
             3--APPEAL OR REBUTTAL


     59      PAY HELD REASON CODE:
             CODE B--COMMANDER’S REQUEST IF THE COMMANDER DESIRES THE
             PAY TO BE HELD. OTHERWISE, BLANK


    60-65    AMOUNT OF PAY TO BE WITHHELD MONTHLY; ZEROS IF CP 59 IS
             BLANK


     1-5     0DQ20


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


    20-23    YYMM COLLECTION IS RESUMED


    24-29    YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT STARTED FROM MMPA




    30-35    YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT ENDED FROM MMPA


    36-44    AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS


    45-52    MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


     59      PAY HELD DISPOSITION CODE:
             1--RELEASE TO MEMBER (ONLY BY COMMANDER’S REQUEST)
             5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
             6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS, RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER. USED
             ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR THE INDEBTEDNESS. OTHERWISE, ZEROS
1114                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5    0DQ21


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER’S LAST NAME


       20-23   YYMM REMITTANCE IS EFFECTIVE


       24-29   YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT STARTED FROM MMPA


       30-35   YYMMDD OVERPAYMENT ENDED FROM MMPA


       36-44   AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS


       45-52   MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


        58     INDEBTEDNESS CANCELLATION DECISION CODE:
               1--WAIVER APPROVED
               2--REMISSION GRANTED
               3--INDEBTEDNESS CANCELED
               4--MEMBER NOT RESPONSIBLE

        59     PAY HELD DISPOSITION CODE:
               1--RELEASE TO MEMBER (ONLY BY COMMANDER’S REQUEST)
               5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
               6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS, RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER. USED
               ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR THE INDEBTEDNESS. OTHERWISE, ZERO


       60-66   AMOUNT FORGIVEN


        67     REFUND INDICATOR: 1
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    1115


Figure 70.8. Format of Descriptive Data for Indebtedness for Overpayment of Pay and Allow-
ances.


 DUI                                 SIZE                      SPECIAL
CODE           DATA NAME            CLASS                 INSTRUCTIONS


                                            If FORMAT-ID is:


 SAPK SAV-PAY-TYPE                    1A    Save Pay (09), applicable code:
                                            A-Physicians Assistants
                                            B-Physicians
                                            C-Former Warrant Officers
                                            D-OTS Graduates
                                            E-Direct Commission
                                            F-Dental Officers


 ACPT ACP-TYPE                        1A    Aviator Continuation Pay (38), applicable code:
                                            A-Aviator
                                            N-Navigator


 FLCA FLT-CREW-STATS                  1N    Flying Duty (12), applicable code:
                                            1-Crew Member
                                            2-Non-Crew Member
                                            3-Non-rated Officer Crew Member
                                            4-AWACS Crew Member

 STBA STRESS-DY-PAY-TYPE              1N    Stress Duty (16), applicable code:
                                            1-Human Acceleration or Deceleration
                                            Experimental Subject
                                            2-Thermal Stress Duty
                                            3-High or Low Pressure Chamber Duty
                                            4-Toxic Fuel Handlers/ Repellents
                                            5-Dangerous Viruses or Bacteria Lab Duty
                                            6-Toxic Pesticides Duty
                                            7-Chemical Munitions
1116                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 DUI                        SIZE                       SPECIAL
CODE       DATA NAME        CLASS                  INSTRUCTIONS


 DIBA DIVER-CLASS            1A     Diving Duty (21). See paragraph 14-4 for
                                    applicable codes.


 HOFP HFP-FDP-QUALFR         1N     Hostile Fire duty (23), applicable code:
                                    1-6 (see paragraph 13-4).


HALO HIGH-ALTITUDE-LOW-OP   1AN     Enter code 2 for HALO.
     ENING


MOIN MED-DEN-OFF-CODE        1N     Board Certification Pay:
                                    1-Physicians
                                    2-Dentists


SUBA SAF-ID                 1AN     Medical/Dental/Nurse Bonus (25), applicable
                                    codes:
                                    2-Continuation Pay, Dentists
                                    5-Additional Special Pay, Physicians
                                    6-Incentive Special Pay, Physicians
                                    R-MSP/MORB, Physicians
                                    X-Additional Special Pay, Dentists ($6000)
                                    Y-Additional Special Pay, Dentists ($8000)
                                    Z-Additional Special Pay, Dentists ($10000)
                                    N-CRNA, Nurses,
                                    Registered Nurse Accession Bonus (26), enter
                                    Code A.


 CAVA CTGY-VESSEL            1A     Career Sea Pay (27), and Career Sea Pay
                                    Premium (37), applicable code:
                                    A-Category A Vessel
                                    C-Category C Vessel


 SDAP SPEC-DUTY-ASGN-PAY    1AN     Special duty Assignment Pay (30), see Chapter
                                    36 for applicable codes.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                         1117


 DUI                         SIZE                       SPECIAL
CODE        DATA NAME        CLASS                  INSTRUCTIONS


RECA RENLSTMT-BONUS-TYPE      1N     Reenlistment Bonus (31) or Selective
                                     Reenlisment Bonus (33), applicable code:
                                     1-first terms
                                     2-career-under 16 years
                                     3-career-16 or more years
                                     4-extension


INNC VRB-INSTLMT-NR           1N     Variable reenlistment bonus (32), enter the
                                     number of VRB installments paid.


DEGA NR-DEPN-BAQ              1N     BAQ (35), applicable code:
                                     0-without dependent
                                     1-with dependent
                                     3-partial BAQ


SUAA SUBS-ALW-TYPE            1A     BAS (40), applicable code:
                                     A-leave rations
                                     B-separate rations (officers and enlisted)
                                     C-PCS rations
                                     D-prorated rations
                                     E-regular supplemental
                                     H-rations in kind
                                     K-rations under emergency conditions
                                     M-rations in kind not available, overseas
                                     N-field duty rations
                                     O-officer BAS
                                     P-partial rate BAS
                                     S-partial supplemental BAS
                                     NOTE: Use one of these codes, normally B
                                     when collecting travel BAS.


DEGC NR-DEPN-COLA             1N     COLA (46) or COLA (47), enter number of
                                     persons dependent upon member for COLA
                                     purposes
1118                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 DUI                       SIZE                        SPECIAL
CODE       DATA NAME       CLASS                  INSTRUCTIONS



ACBA ACCOM-STAT             1N     If housing (55), housing-rent plus (56) or
                                   unaccompanied housing with dependents-rent
                                   plus (57), applicable code:
                                   0-no dependents or dependents not in custody of
                                   member
                                   1-accompanied by dependents, major command
                                   sponsored
                                   If VHA (68), applicable code:
                                   0-single BAQ
                                   1-with dependent BAQ


UNBA UEA-INIT               1N     UEA initial (59), applicable code:
                                   1-ROTC
                                   2-OTS
                                   3-AECP
                                   4-miscellaneous


UNAA UEA-ADTNL              1N     UEA additional (60), applicable code:
                                   1-medical officer
                                   2-non-medical officer



CLBA CLOTH-ALW-XTRA-TYPE    1A     Clothing allowance extra (61), applicable code;
                                   (see Attachment 8).


 CLFA CMA-TYPE              1N     CMA (63), applicable code:
                                   1-basic male
                                   2-basic female
                                   3-standard male
                                   4-standard female


 FASA FSA-TYPE              1A     FSA (65), applicable code:
                                   F-foreign/Alaska (BAQ)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              1119


 DUI                         SIZE                       SPECIAL
CODE        DATA NAME        CLASS                  INSTRUCTIONS


                                     R-restricted; II (PCS)
                                     S-ship II
                                     T-temporary (TDY)


 LEEF LV-SETLMNT-OPYMT        1N     Lump-sum leave (74), applicable code:
                                     1-basic pay
                                     2-BAQ with dependents
                                     3-BAQ without dependents
                                     4-BAS


CLCA CLOTH-ALWL-INIT-CIV-T    1N     Clothing allowance initial civilian (81),
     YPE                             applicable code:
                                     1-both winter and summer
                                     2-winter or summer
                                     3-TDY for 31-190 days
                                     4-TDY for 16-30 days
                                     5-TDY with NASA under 16 days


                                     NOTE: If specific entitlement code is not listed
                                     above, leave CP blank in DQ01.
1120                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.9. Formats to Start/Stop or Change Indebtedness for Excess Cost.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5      0DR01/02


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM DEDUCTION STARTS OR ZEROS IF
                 ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


       26-29     YEAR-MONTH-STOP: YYMM DEDUCTION STOPS


       32-38     AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS


       39-44     MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT. BLANK IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


        45       FISCAL-YEAR INDEBTEDNESS OCCURRED


       48-54     INDEBTEDNESS-AMOUNT-FORGIVEN: ZEROS IF ACTION INDICATOR 01


       61-64     BUDGET-PROJECT OR BLANK FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02

       65-66     SUB-PROJECT OR BLANK FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02


        67       INDEBTEDNESS-REASON-SUSPENSION CODE:
                 2--REMISSION APPLICATION
                 ZERO FOR ACTION INDICATOR 02 OR IF NOT SUSPENDED


        1-5      0DR04


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                        1121


CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   15-19  FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-23    YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


    32-38    AMOUNT-SPECIFIC-INDEBTEDNESS


    39-44    NEW MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT OR ZEROS IF NOT BEING
             CHANGED


     45      FISCAL YEAR FROM MMPA


    61-64    BUDGET PROJECT OR BLANK IF NOT CHANGING


    65-66    SUB-PROJECT OR BLANK IF NOT CHANGING
1122                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.10. Formats to Correct or Cancel Indebtedness for Excess Cost.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5      0DR05


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM CORRECTION IS EFFECTIVE


       32-38     CORRECT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS; BLANK IF NOT CORRECTING


       39-44     CORRECT MONTHLY DEDUCTION: BLANK IF NOT CORRECTING


        45       CORRECT FISCAL YEAR; BLANK IF NOT CORRECTING


       49-55     AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


       56-59     PRIOR-YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF START ON MMPA


       62-65     PRIOR-YEAR-MONTH-STOP: ZEROS


        1-5      0DR06


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF CURRENT PROCESSING MONTH


       32-38     AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


        45       FISCAL YEAR FROM MMPA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                         1123


CHARACTER                           DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    48-54    INDEBTEDNESS AMOUNT FORGIVEN: MUST = CP 32-38


     55      INDEBTEDNESS-CANCELLATION-DECISION CODE:
             3--CANCELED
             4--MEMBER NOT RESPONSIBLE


    56-59    PRIOR-YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF LAST ACTION ON MMPA
1124                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.11. Formats to Suspend or Resume Collection for Excess Cost.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5      0DR18


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM SUSPENSION IS EFFECTIVE


       30-33     YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM OF START ON MMPA


       36-42     AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


        58       INDEBTEDNESS-REASON-SUSPENSION CODE:
                 2--REMISSION APPLICATION


        59       PAY-HELD-REASON CODE:
                 B--COMMANDER’S REQUEST
                 OR BLANK


       60-65     AMOUNT OF PAY TO BE WITHHELD MONTHLY: ZEROS IF CP 59=BLANK


        1-5      0DR20


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM COLLECTION IS RESUMED


       36-42     AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            1125


CHARACTER                      DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
   43-48  MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


     59      PAY-HELD-DISPOSITION CODE:
             1--RELEASE TO MEMBER
             5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
             6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS, RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER; USED
             ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR INDEBTEDNESS. OTHERWISE, ZERO
1126                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.12. Format to Remit Indebtedness for Excess Cost.


 CHARACTER                                     DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5      0DR21


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YEAR-MONTH-START: YYMM REMITTANCE IS EFFECTIVE


       36-42     AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


       43-48     MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


        58       INDEBTEDNESS-CANCELLATION-DECISION CODE:
                 2--REMISSION GRANTED
                 3--INDEBTEDNESS CANCELED
                 4--MEMBER NOT RESPONSIBLE


        59       PAY-HELD-DISPOSITION CODE:
                 1--RELEASE TO MEMBER
                 5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
                 6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS, RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER; USED
                 ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR INDEBTEDNESS. OTHERWISE, ZERO


       60-66     INDEBTEDNESS AMOUNT FORGIVEN
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 1127


Figure 70.13. Format to Start/Stop Miscellaneous Indebtedness.


 CHARACTER                          DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5   0DS01; START WITH DEDUCTION VIA D COMPANY CODE
           BDS01; START WITH DEDUCTION VIA ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATION
           0DS02; STOP; TRAILER RECORD NOT REQUIRED


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23       YYMM DEDUCTION STARTS; MUST EQUAL CURRENT OR NEXT
                 PROCESSING MONTH; ZEROS IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


     24-25       BLANK


     26-29       YYMM DEDUCTION STOPS; MUST EQUAL CURRENT OR PRIOR
                 PROCESSING MONTH; ZEROS IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 01; WHEN STOP
                 DATE IS CURRENT PROCESSING MONTH, A DEDUCTION IS MADE FOR
                 THE CURRENT MONTH; IF STOP DATE IS PRIOR PROCESSING MONTH, A
                 DEDUCTION IS NOT MADE FOR THE CURRENT MONTH


     30-31       APPROPRIATION CODE, DEPARTMENT (USE 17 FOR NAVY OR MARINE
                 CORPS, 21 FOR ARMY, OR 57 FOR AIR FORCE)


     32-38       AMOUNT OF TOTAL INDEBTEDNESS: MUST MATCH MMPA
                 INDEBTEDNESS AMOUNT IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


     39-44       MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT; IF FUNDS ARE NOT AVAILABLE,
                 ENTER REPAY RATE TO START COLLECTING WHEN FUNDS ARE
                 AVAILABLE AND INDEBTEDNESS WILL BE TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED
                 WITH ACTION INDICATOR Q8; IF AVAILABLE FUNDS ARE LESS THAN
                 REPAY RATE, AVAILABLE FUNDS WILL BE DEDUCTED AND THE
                 REQUESTED REPAY RATE WILL START THE FOLLOWING PROCESSING
                 MONTH


     45-46       CALENDAR YEAR DEBT OCCURRED: MUST MATCH MMPA CALENDAR
                 YEAR IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02
1128                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        47     INDEBTEDNESS TYPE CODE (SEE Attachment 6 OR TABLE 099): MUST
               MATCH MMPA IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


       48-54   AMOUNT FORGIVEN IF ACTION INDICATOR IS 02: ZEROS IF ACTION
               INDICATOR IS 01; IF STOP DATE IS CURRENT PROCESSING MONTH,
               MUST EQUAL MMPA BALANCE DUE; IF STOP DATE IS PRIOR
               PROCESSING MONTH, MUST EQUAL MMPA BALANCE DUE PLUS
               CURRENT MONTH DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       60-66   D COMPANY CODE FROM TABLE 50; MUST MATCH MMPA IF ACTION
               INDICATOR IS 02; IF APPROPRIATION IS USED LEAVE BLANK


        67     REASON SUSPENSION CODE:
               1--WAIVER APPLICATION (FOR DFAS-DE USE ONLY)
               2--REMISSION APPLICATION
               3--APPEAL/REBUTTAL
               5--MEMBER REQUIRES MORE THAN 30 DAYS NOTIFICATION DUE TO
               LEAVE, TDY, ETC.
               8--AWAITING FSO TO NOTIFY MEMBER (FOR JPPSO-SAT/ECAF USE
               ONLY)
               0--NOT SUSPENDED
               LEAVE BLANK IS ACTION INDICATOR IS 02


       68-80   COMMON DATA


        1-5    1DS01 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA USAFA
               APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 57) OR USAF APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-21   DEPARTMENT CODE; MUST EQUAL 57 OR 97
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                1129


CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
 POSITION
    22    FISCAL YEAR WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE ; IF APPROPRIATION
          DOES NOT HAVE FISCAL YEAR, LEAVE BLANK


    23-26    BASIC SYMBOL WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; SPACES NOT
             ALLOWED


    27-33    REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION CODE; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO
             CONSECUTIVE SPACES ARE NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


    34-35    FUND CODE; IF BOTH POSITIONS NOT PRESENT, MUST BE ALL SPACES


     36      FISCAL YEAR; CAN BE SPACE


    37-38    OPERATING AGENCY CODE; IF BOTH POSITIONS NOT PRESENT, MUST
             BE ALL SPACES


    39-40    ALLOTMENT SERIAL NUMBER; BOTH POSITIONS MUST BE FILLED IF CP
             37-38 FILLED; SPACE FILL IF CP 37-38 IS SPACE FILLED


    41-46    BUDGET PROJECT AND SUB-PROJECT OR RESPONSIBILITY COST
             CENTER; CAN BE ALL SPACES; IF FIRST POSITION IS EQUAL TO SPACE,
             REMAINDER OF POSITIONS MUST EQUAL SPACES; TWO CONSECUTIVE
             SPACES ARE NOT ALLOWED UNLESS AT END


    47-48    MAJOR FORCE PROGRAM; IF BOTH POSITIONS NOT PRESENT, MUST BE
             ALL SPACES


    49-61    MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATION DATA; CAN BE LEFT BLANK


    62-67    BLANK


    68-80    COMMON DATA


             NOTE: IF THE INDEBTEDNESS IS FOR A MILITARY PAY AND
             ALLOWANCE, A DQ TRANSACTION MUST BE INPUT
1130                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                         DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
     1-5   2DS01 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA USAF
           APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 57) OR USAF APPROPRIATION FORMAT
           WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25   ACCOUNTABLE STATION SERIAL NUMBER; SPACES NOT ALLOWED;
               FIRST FOUR POSITIONS CANNOT EQUAL CP 68-71 IF THE
               APPROPRIATION IS CITING A SPECIFIC ALLOTMENT


       26-67   BLANK


       68-80   COMMON DATA


               NOTE: CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF
               YOU ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION
               FORMAT WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
               DOCUMENT.


        1-5    1DS01 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA USA
               APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 21) OR USA APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97.

       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-21   DEPARTMENT CODE; MUST EQUAL 21 OR 97


        22     FISCAL YEAR


       23-26   BASIC SYMBOL


       27-33   REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION CODE OR BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           1131


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    34-35    OPERATING AGENCY CODE OR BLANK


    36-39    ALLOTMENT SERIAL NUMBER OR BLANK


    40-47    ARMY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE CODE/PROJECT ACCOUNT CODE OR
             BLANK


    48-51    ELEMENT OF RESOURCE OR BLANK


    52-55    MANAGEMENT DECISION PACKAGE/SPECIAL OPERATIONS DECISION
             PACKAGE OR BLANK


    56-60    FUNCTIONAL COST ACCOUNT OR BLANK


    61-66    UNIT IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OR BLANK


     1-5     2DS01 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA USA
             APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 21) OR USA APPROPRIATION FORMAT
             WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97.


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    FISCAL STATION NUMBER; S EQUALS 0


             NOTE: CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF
             YOU ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION
             FORMAT WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
             DOCUMENT.
1132                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION



        1-5    1DS01 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA USN
               APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 17) OR USN APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97.


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-21   DEPARTMENT CODE; MUST EQUAL 17 OR 97


        22     FISCAL YEAR


       23-26   FUND SYMBOL


       27-30   SUB HEAD


       34-36   OBJECT CLASS


       37-41   BUREAU CONTROL NUMBER OR FUNCTIONAL ACCOUNT NUMBER


        42     SUB ALLOTMENT


       43-48   AUTHORIZED ACCOUNTING ACTIVITY


       49-50   CHARACTER TYPE CODE


       51-56   PROJECT/PROPERTY ACCOUNT


        1-5    2DS01 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA USAF
               APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 57) OR USAF APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97.


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              1133


CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME



    20-31    COST CODE


    32-46    STANDARD DOCUMENT NUMBER: IF CP 23 - 26 (FIRST TRAILER
             RECORD) EQUALS 1405 OR 1804 THEN FIRST POSITION MUST EQUAL N,
             R, OR V AND REMAINING POSITIONS MUST NOT CONTAIN SPACES;
             OTHERWISE BLANK


             NOTE: CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF
             YOU ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION
             FORMAT WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
             DOCUMENT.




     1-5     1DS01 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA APPROPRIATION
             NOT COVERED IN PREVIOUS DS01 TRAILER RECORD FORMAT


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-21    DEPARTMENT CODE; NOT 00, 17, 21, 57 OR 97


     22      FISCAL YEAR OR BLANK


    23-26    BASIC SYMBOL
1134                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                       DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
    27-33  REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION CODE OR BLANK


       34-67   REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION (CONTINUES IN SECOND TRAILER
               RECORD)


        1-5    2DS01 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) FOR DEDUCTION VIA
               APPROPRIATION NOT COVERED IN PREVIOUS DS01 TRAILER RECORD
               FORMATS


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25   REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION DATA UP TO THE APPROPRIATION’S
               ADSN


       26-31   ADSN: S EQUALS 0; ZERO FILL TO THE LEFT


               NOTE: CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF
               YOU ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION
               FORMAT WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
               DOCUMENT.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              1135


Figure 70.14. Format to Change Miscellaneous Indebtedness.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0DS04


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      YYMM CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


     32-38      AMOUNT OF SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


     39-44      NEW MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT OR ZEROS IF NOT BEING
                CHANGED


     45-46      CALENDAR YEAR FROM MMPA


       47       INDEBTEDNESS TYPE FROM MMPA


     53-59      NEW COMPANY CODE OR BLANK IF NOT CHANGING


     60-66      OLD COMPANY CODE FROM MMPA OR BLANK IF ORIGINAL ENTRY
                USED AN APPROPRIATION
1136                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 70.15. Format to Correct Miscellaneous Indebtedness.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5      0DS05; CORRECT PRIME RECORD DATA ELEMENTS ONLY
                 BDS05; CORRECT APPROPRIATION OR CHANGE FROM COMPANY CODE
                 TO APPROPRIATION


       6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19     FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-23     YYMM CORRECTION IS EFFECTIVE; MUST EQUAL CURRENT OR NEXT
                 PROCESSING MONTH


       32-38     CORRECT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS AMOUNT; CANNOT BE LESS THAN
                 THE MMPA’S CURRENT MONTH BALANCE DUE PLUS THE CURRENT
                 MONTH DEDUCTION IF CP 20-23 IS EQUAL TO THE CURRENT
                 PROCESSING MONTH; CANNOT BE LESS THAN THE MMPA’S BALANCE
                 DUE CURRENT MONTH IF CP 20-23 IS EQUAL TO THE NEXT PROCESSING
                 MONTH; LEAVE BLANK IF NOT CORRECTING


       39-44     CORRECT MONTHLY DEDUCTION OR BLANK IF NOT BEING
                 CORRECTED


       45-46     CORRECT CALENDAR YEAR OR BLANK IF NOT BEING CORRECTED


        47       INDEBTEDNESS TYPE; MUST MATCH MMPA; CANNOT BE CORRECTED


       49-55     AMOUNT OF SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS ON MMPA


       56-59     YYMM OF START IN ENTRY ON MMPA


       62-65     ZEROS


        66       BLANK IF THE APPROPRIATION IS NOT BEING CORRECTED AND 2 IF
                 APPROPRIATION IS BEING CORRECTED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 1137


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



     1-5     1DS05 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF DEDUCTION
             TO A USAF APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 57) OR USAF
             APPROPRIATION FORMAT WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-21    DEPARTMENT WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; MUST EQUAL 57 OR 97


     22      FISCAL YEAR WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; IF APPROPRIATION DOES
             NOT HAVE FISCAL YEAR, LEAVE BLANK


    23-26    BASIC SYMBOL WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; SPACES NOT
             ALLOWED


    27-33    REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION CODE; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO
             CONSECUTIVE SPACES ARE NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


    34-35    FUND CODE; IF BOTH POSITIONS NOT PRESENT, MUST BE ALL SPACES


     36      FISCAL YEAR; CAN BE SPACE



    37-38    OPERATING AGENCY CODE; IF BOTH POSITIONS NOT PRESENT, MUST
             BE ALL SPACES


    39-40    ALLOTMENT SERIAL NUMBER; BOTH POSITIONS MUST BE FILLED IF CP
             37-38 FILLED; SPACE FILL IF CP 37-38 IS SPACE FILLED


    41-46    BUDGET PROJECT AND SUB-PROJECT OR RESPONSIBILITY CENTER
             COST CODE; CAN BE ALL SPACES; IF FIRST POSITION IS EQUAL TO
             SPACE, REMAINDER OF POSITIONS MUST EQUAL SPACES; TWO
             CONSECUTIVE SPACES ARE NOT ALLOWED UNLESS AT END
1138                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION



       47-48   MAJOR FORCE PROGRAM; IF BOTH POSITIONS NOT PRESENT, MUST BE
               ALL SPACES


       49-61   MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATION DATA; CAN BE LEFT BLANK


       62-67   BLANK


       68-80   COMMON DATA


        1-5    2DS05 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF
               DEDUCTION TO A USAF APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 57) OR USAF
               APPROPRIATION FORMAT WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97.


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25   ACCOUNTABLE DISBURSING STATION SERIAL NUMBER; SPACES NOT
               ALLOWED; FIRST FOUR POSITIONS CANNOT EQUAL CP 68-71 IF THE
               APPROPRIATION IS CITING A SPECIFIC ALLOTMENT


       26-67   BLANK


       68-80   COMMON DATA


               NOTES:
               1. CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF YOU
               ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
               DOCUMENT.
               2. THE COMPLETE APPROPRIATION MUST BE ENTERED EVEN THOUGH
               PART OF THE ORIGINAL APPROPRIATION IS CORRECT.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              1139


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     1-5     1DS05 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF DEDUCTION
             TO A USA APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 21) OR USA APPROPRIATION
             FORMAT WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-21    DEPARTMENT WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; MUST EQUAL 21 OR 97


     22      FISCAL YEAR WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; SPACE NOT ALLOWED



    23-26    BASIC SYMBOL WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; SPACES NOT
             ALLOWED


    27-33    REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION CODE; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO
             CONSECUTIVE SPACES ARE NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


    34-35    OPERATING AGENCY; IF BOTH POSITIONS NOT PRESENT, MUST BE ALL
             SPACES


    36-39    ALLOTMENT SERIAL NUMBER; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO
             CONSECUTIVE SPACES NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


    40-47    ARMY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE CODE/PROJECT ACCOUNT CODE;
             CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO CONSECUTIVE SPACES NOT ALLOWED
             EXCEPT AT END


    48-51    ELEMENT OF RESOURCE; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO CONSECUTIVE
             SPACES NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


    52-55    MANAGEMENT DECISION PACKAGE/SPECIAL OPERATIONS DECISION
             PACKAGE; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO CONSECUTIVE SPACES NOT
             ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END
1140                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION



       56-60   FUNCTIONAL COST ACCOUNT; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO
               CONSECUTIVE SPACES NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END.


       61-66   UNIT IDENTIFICATION NUMBER; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO
               CONSECUTIVE SPACES NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


        67     BLANK


       68-80   COMMON DATA


        1-5    2DS05 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF
               DEDUCTION TO A USA APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 21) OR USA
               APPROPRIATION FORMAT WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97.


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME



       20-25   FISCAL STATION NUMBER; SPACES NOT ALLOWED; IF APPROPRIATION
               FISCAL STATION NUMBER IS S34031, MUST EQUAL 034031


       26-67   BLANK


       68-80   COMMON DATA


               NOTES:
               1. CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF YOU
               ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
               DOCUMENT.
               2. THE COMPLETE APPROPRIATION MUST BE ENTERED EVEN THOUGH
               PART OF THE ORIGINAL APPROPRIATION IS CORRECT.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                            1141


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


     1-5     1DS05 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF DEDUCTION
             TO A USN APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 17) OR USN APPROPRIATION
             FORMAT WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-21    DEPARTMENT WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; MUST EQUAL 17 OR 97


     22      FISCAL YEAR WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    23-26    FUND SYMBOL WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    27-30    SUB HEAD; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    31-33    BLANK


    34-36    OBJECT CLASS; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    37-41    BUREAU CONTROL NUMBER OR FUNCTIONAL ACCOUNT NUMBER;
             SPACES NOT ALLOWED

     42      SUB ALLOTMENT; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    43-48    AUTHORIZED ACCOUNTING ACTIVITY; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    49-50    CHARACTER TYPE CODE; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    51-56    PROJECT/PROPERTY ACCOUNT; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


    57-67    BLANK
1142                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       68-80   COMMON DATA


        1-5    2DS05 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF
               DEDUCTION TO A USN APPROPRIATION (DEPARTMENT 17) OR USN
               APPROPRIATION FORMAT WITH DEPARTMENT EQUAL TO 97.


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19   FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-31   COST CODE; SPACES NOT ALLOWED


       32-46   CORRECT STANDARD DOCUMENT NUMBER: IF CP 23 - 26 (FIRST
               TRAILER RECORD) EQUALS 1405 OR 1804 THEN FIRST POSITION MUST
               EQUAL N, R, OR V AND REMAINING POSITIONS MUST NOT CONTAIN
               SPACES; OTHERWISE BLANK


       47-67   BLANK


       68-50   COMMON DATA



               NOTES:
               1. CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF YOU
               ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
               DOCUMENT.
               2. THE COMPLETE APPROPRIATION MUST BE ENTERED EVEN THOUGH
               PART OF THE ORIGINAL APPROPRIATION IS CORRECT.


        1-5    1DS05 (FIRST TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF DEDUCTION
               TO AN APPROPRIATION NOT COVERED IN PREVIOUS DS05 TRAILER
               RECORD FORMATS


       6-14    SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             1143


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION



    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-21    DEPARTMENT WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; MUST EQUAL TWO
             NUMERICS; CANNOT EQUAL 00, 17, 21, 57 OR 97


     22      FISCAL YEAR WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; IF APPROPRIATION DOES
             NOT HAVE FISCAL YEAR, LEAVE BLANK


    23-26    BASIC SYMBOL WITHIN APPROPRIATION CODE; SPACES NOT
             ALLOWED


    27-33    REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION CODE; CAN BE ALL SPACES; TWO
             CONSECUTIVE SPACES ARE NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


    34-67    REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION UP TO THE APPROPRIATION’S ADSN;
             CONTINUE IN SECOND TRAILER RECORD IF ADDITIONAL SPACE IS
             NEEDED; TWO CONSECUTIVE SPACES NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT END


    68-80    COMMON DATA


     1-5     2DS05 (SECOND TRAILER RECORD) TO CORRECT METHOD OF
             DEDUCTION TO AN APPROPRIATION NOT COVERED IN PREVIOUS DS05
             TRAILER RECORD FORMATS


    6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


    15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


    20-25    REMAINDER OF APPROPRIATION DATA UP TO THE APPROPRIATION’S
             ADSN THAT DID NOT FIT IN THE FIRST TRAILER RECORD; CAN EQUAL
             ALL SPACES; TWO CONSECUTIVE SPACES NOT ALLOWED EXCEPT AT
             END
1144                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                              DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


       26-31   ADSN; SPACES NOT ALLOWED; IF SOURCE DOCUMENT
               APPROPRIATION’S ADSN IS S123456, MUST EQUAL 123456; IF EQUAL
               S1234 EQUAL 001234


               NOTES:
               1. CONTACT THE OPLOC THAT SUPPORTS YOUR INSTALLATION IF YOU
               ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTY COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATION FORMAT
               WITH THE APPROPRIATION DATA PROVIDED IN THE SOURCE
               DOCUMENT.
               2. THE COMPLETE APPROPRIATION MUST BE ENTERED EVEN THOUGH
               PART OF THE ORIGINAL APPROPRIATION IS CORRECT.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                1145


Figure 70.16. Formats to Cancel or Suspend Miscellaneous Indebtedness.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0DS06


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23      YYMM OF CURRENT PROCESSING MONTH


     32-38      AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


     45-46      CALENDAR YEAR FROM MMPA


       47       INDEBTEDNESS TYPE FROM MMPA


     48-54      AMOUNT FORGIVEN (MUST MATCH SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS, CP 32-38)


       55       CANCELLATION DECISION CODE:
                3--CANCELED
                4--MEMBER NOT RESPONSIBLE


     56-59      YYMM START OF LAST ACTION ON MMPA


     60-66      COMPANY CODE ON MMPA OR BLANK IF MMPA CONTAINS AN
                APPROPRIATION


      1-5       0DS18


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME
1146                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                        DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
    20-23  YYMM THAT SUSPENSION IS EFFECTIVE


       30-33   YYMM OF LAST ACTION ON MMPA ENTRY


       36-42   AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


        47     INDEBTEDNESS TYPE FROM MMPA


       50-56   COMPANY CODE FROM MMPA OR BLANK IF MMPA ENTRY CONTAINS
               AN APPROPRIATION


        58     SUSPENSION REASON CODE:
               1--WAIVER APPLICATION (DFAS-DE USE ONLY)
               2--REMISSION APPLICATION
               3--APPEAL/REBUTTAL
               5--MEMBER REQUIRES MORE THAN 30 DAYS NOTIFICATION DUE TO
               LEAVE, TDY, ETC.


        59     PAY HELD REASON CODE:
               B--COMMANDER’S REQUEST
               OTHERWISE, BLANK


       60-65   MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT OR ZEROS IF CP 59 IS BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          1147


Figure 70.17. Format to Resume Collection or to Remit Miscellaneous Indebtedness.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5        0DS20


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23       YYMM COLLECTION IS RESUMED


     36-42       AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA


     43-48       MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


     50-56       COMPANY CODE IN MMPA ENTRY OR BLANK IF MMPA CONTAINS AN
                 APPROPRIATION


       59        PAY HELD DISPOSITION CODE:
                 1--RELEASE TO MEMBER (ONLY BY COMMANDER’S REQUEST)
                 5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
                 6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS. RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER. USED
                 ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR THE INDEBTEDNESS. OTHERWISE, ZERO


      1-5        0DS21


      6-14       SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19       FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-23       YYMM REMITTANCE IS EFFECTIVE


     36-42       AMOUNT SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS FROM MMPA
1148                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 CHARACTER                      DESCRIPTION
  POSITION
    43-48  MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       50-56   COMPANY CODE ON MMPA OR BLANK IF MMPA DOES NOT CONTAIN
               AN APPROPRIATION


        58     INDEBTEDNESS CANCELLATION CODE:
               1--WAIVER APPROVED
               2--REMISSION GRANTED
               3--INDEBTEDNESS CANCELED
               4--MEMBER NOT RESPONSIBLE


        59     PAY HELD DISPOSITION CODE:
               1--RELEASE TO MEMBER (ONLY BY COMMANDER’S REQUEST)
               5--APPLY TO INDEBTEDNESS
               6--REPAY INDEBTEDNESS. RELEASE BALANCE TO MEMBER. USED
               ONLY IF PAY WAS HELD FOR THE INDEBTEDNESS. OTHERWISE, ZERO


       60-66   AMOUNT FORGIVEN
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1149


                                             Chapter 71

               INDEBTEDNESS - DISHONORED CHECKS, COMMISSARY OR
                NON-APPROPRIATED FUND INSTRUMENTALITIES (NAFI)

71.1. Description. This chapter contains information on the following types of indebtedness:
   71.1.1. Dishonored Checks from Dependents
   71.1.2. Dishonored Commissary Checks
   71.1.3. AF Non-appropriated Fund Instrumentality
   71.1.4. Other Services Non-appropriated Fund Instrumentality
   71.1.5. Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
   71.1.6. Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) Tactical Field Exchange (TFE)
   71.1.7. Other Service Exchange

71.2. Dishonored Checks from Dependents. With the exception of dishonored commissary checks,
there is no statutory authority for involuntary collection from a member’s pay for a dishonored check
written by a dependent. Dishonored checks written by dependents may only be collected from the mem-
ber’s pay with the member’s written consent. (Exception: Public Law 105-261, Section 364, provides
authority for collection of commissary dishonored checks, as well as the associated charges for those
checks, from a member for a dishonored check written by either the member or the member’s dependents.
This collection may be accomplished without the member’s written consent.)

71.3. Dishonored Commissary Checks. A dishonored check to the commissary may be collected invol-
untarily. All pay (except allowances, FITW, FICA, SITW, and SGLI premium) are subject to deduction
for the dishonored check. The two-thirds rule does not apply.
   71.3.1. Commissaries located in CONUS will submit these debts directly to DFAS-Columbus
   (DECA), not to the FSO. Commissaries located overseas will submit these debts to the FSO.
   71.3.2. When a check is returned as uncollectible, the commissary must notify the member and
   attempt collection for the check. If the member refuses or cannot make payment, the commissary
   sends a DD Form 139 to the local DAO (Materiel section). The DD Form 139 must include a record
   of collection action, including the date the member was notified of the debt (a copy of the commis-
   sary's letter to the member concerning the debt and requesting payment is adequate). In the appropri-
   ation data field, the Materiel section adds the D prefix company code of the activity to receive
   payment for the dishonored check and sends the DD Form 139 to the local Military Pay section.
       71.3.2.1. For members not serviced by the local FSO, the military pay section provides locator
       service by adding the address of the member's servicing FSO to the DD Form 139 and returns the
       DD Form 139 to the Materiel section. The Materiel section sends the DD Form 139 package to the
       member's servicing FSO.
       71.3.2.2. For members serviced by the local FSO, the military pay section advises the Materiel
       section the DD Form 139 is being processed.
1150                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   71.3.3. The member must be given 30 days notice per paragraph 69.3. The 30 days notice begins on
   the date of the commissary's letter to the member. The FSO is not required to give the member addi-
   tional notification. The FSO processes a DS01 transaction with indebtedness-type L and the D prefix
   company code shown on the DD Form 139.

71.4. Air Force Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality. A member, dependent, or guest of a mem-
ber may become indebted to a non-appropriated fund instrumentality (NAFI) for charges or for dishon-
ored checks. The DoDFMR authorizes involuntary collection from a member's pay for such indebtedness
of the member; however, collection for such indebtedness from any member's pay if the debt was incurred
by a dependent may not be collected without the member's consent.
   71.4.1. Consent Agreement. A NAFI may require a member to sign a consent agreement before
   authorizing charges or check-cashing privileges for the member or his or her dependent(s). A consent
   agreement is a written statement authorizing deduction from pay for the debt. The agreement must be
   a clear and precise authorization containing the member's SSN and must be signed and dated by the
   member. The consent agreement may be in any written format so long as the above conditions are
   met. The following statement is an example of such a consent statement: "In consideration of the
   (NAFI involved) accepting payment by check for goods or services, cashing personal checks, and
   accepting credit sales for myself, my dependents, and guests, I hereby authorize a deduction from my
   pay for any dishonored check (including any associated processing charge) or charge which is not on
   time. "The consent agreement may be withdrawn, in writing, at any time by the member; however, a
   deduction from the member's pay is authorized for the specific debt incurred under the agreement
   before the date the written withdrawal is received by the NAFI involved.
   71.4.2. Notification. When an indebtedness occurs, the member is notified by the Non-appropriated
   Fund Financial Management Branch (NAFFMB) or NAFI concerned and asked to make payment for
   the amount of the debt. If the member refuses, does not make payment, or does not respond, the
   NAFFMB or NAFI notifies the member's unit commander for assistance in collection of the debt. If
   the member is separating within 30 days, notification to the unit commander is waived. The
   NAFFMB prepares a DD Form 139 and forwards it to the member's servicing FSO.
   71.4.3. FSO Procedures. Review the DD Form 139 to verify that the debt is proper and documenta-
   tion complete.
       71.4.3.1. Ensure that either:
           71.4.3.1.1. The DD Form 139 has the following statement completed: "The member named
           above was notified in writing on (date) concerning a (type of debt) to (facility) in the amount
           of (amount). This certifies due process procedures, as provided in DODR 7000-14, Volumes 1
           and 5, were completed. The member's commander was notified on (date) to assist with collec-
           tion of the debt. The debt was incurred by (name). No payment has been received to date.
           Request collection be taken in accordance with DoDFMR, Volume 7A, table 50-5, rule 6” or
           71.4.3.1.2. A signed consent is attached to the DD Form 139.
       71.4.3.2. A consent agreement is attached to the DD Form 139 if the debt was incurred by a
       dependent or guest of any member. The consent agreement must conform with the guidelines in
       paragraph 71.4.1. above and be signed before the date of the indebtedness. If the consent agree-
       ment was obtained after the indebtedness occurred, the statement must include the amount of the
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1151


     debt, the date of the debt, the member's SSN, and be signed and dated by the member. A consent
     agreement signed only by a dependent is ineffective.
     71.4.3.3. No deduction from pay is made before 30 days after the date of the notification to the
     member, unless the member is separating within that period.
     71.4.3.4. The D prefix company code must be in the appropriation data field on the DD Form 139.
     71.4.3.5. If the member is separating within 30 days, the following statement must also be on the
     DD Form 139: "The member is scheduled to separate on (date), notification to the unit com-
     mander is waived." The FSO will accept the DD Form 139 providing the member has not cleared
     the FSO on out-processing.
     71.4.3.6. If the DD Form 139 is not complete, return to the NAFFMB for appropriate action.
  71.4.4. Collection of Indebtedness from MMPA. The debt is collected from the MMPA after the FSO
  procedures in paragraph 71.4.3. above are completed. No collection may be made for the debt of a
  dependent or guest of any member unless a consent agreement is provided. Any FSO may input a
  valid debt on the MMPA even though the member has another servicing FSO. Generally, the collec-
  tion will be a one-time deduction unless the debt causes collections to exceed two-thirds of pay (see
  paragraph 69.7.) or results in documented financial hardship. When collection is limited by the
  two-thirds rule, the uncollected balance will be collected the next month.
     71.4.4.1. If the member is not separating within 30 days, process a DS01 transaction with indebt-
     edness type M and the D prefix company code shown in the appropriation data field of the DD
     Form 139.
     71.4.4.2. If the member is retired, send the DD Form 139 to DFAS-CL/RO, PO Box 99191,
     Cleveland OH 44199-1126. Their phone numbers are DSN 380-5770 or 5534, commercial (216)
     522-3770. Their datafax numbers are: DSN 580-5237 or commercial (216) 522-5237.
     71.4.4.3. If the member is separating within 30 days, compute the amount of pay due the member
     through date of separation (DOS), including any accrued leave and taking into consideration any
     other known debts, excluding the miscellaneous indebtedness identified in paragraph 69.16.1.
         71.4.4.3.1. If the member will have enough pay due, based on the computation, to satisfy the
         NAFI indebtedness, process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type M and the D prefix
         company code in the appropriation data field of the DD Form 139. (Input screens for DS
         transactions are shown in Figure 70.13. through Figure 70.17.)
         71.4.4.3.2. If the member has pay due, but will not have enough pay due, based on the com-
         putation, to satisfy the NAFI indebtedness, process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type
         M and the D prefix company code in the appropriation data field of the DD Form 139 for the
         amount which can be collected.
         71.4.4.3.3. If the member has no pay due, based on the computation, return the DD Form 139
         to the NAFFMB without action. Indicate on the DD Form 139 that the member has no pay due
         on DOS and provide the member's future mailing address in the LF/N7/NN entry of the
         MMPA for the NAFFMB to pursue collection.
         71.4.4.3.4. For the DS01 transaction processed in 71.4.4.3.1. or 71.4.4.3.2. above, return a
         posted copy of the DD Form 139 to the NAFFMB. If only a portion of the indebtedness was
         collected, indicate on the DD Form 139 the reason for partial collection, the amount collected,
1152                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


          and the member's future mailing address. When making the separation payment to the mem-
          ber based on the computation of pay due, deduct the amount of specific indebtedness in the
          DS01 transaction processed for the NAFI indebtedness.
          71.4.4.3.5. When the member disputes collection and the debt was properly processed based
          on the DD Form 139, the member must contact the NAFFMB to resolve the dispute.

71.5. Other Services Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality. A member or dependent of a member
may become indebted to the non-appropriated fund instrumentality (NAFI) of the Army, Navy, Marine
Corps, or Coast Guard for charges or dishonored checks. The DoDFMR authorizes involuntary collection
from member's pay for such indebtedness of the member; however, collection from any member's pay if
the debt was incurred by a dependent may not be collected without the member's consent.
   71.5.1. Consent Agreement. A NAFI may require a member to sign a consent agreement before
   authorizing charges or check-cashing privileges for the member or his or her dependent(s). A consent
   agreement is a written statement authorizing deduction from pay for the debt. The agreement must be
   a clear and precise authorization containing the member's SSN and must be signed and dated by the
   member. The consent agreement may be in any written format so long as the above conditions are
   met. The consent agreement may be withdrawn, in writing, at any time by the member; however, a
   deduction from the member's pay is authorized for the specific debt incurred under the agreement
   before the date the written withdrawal is received by the NAFI involved.
   71.5.2. Notification. When an indebtedness occurs, the member should be notified by the NAFI con-
   cerned and asked to make payment for the debt. If the member refuses, does not make payment, or
   does not respond, the NAFI notifies the member's unit commander for assistance in collection of the
   debt. If the member is separating within 30 days, notification to the unit commander is waived. If the
   DD Form 139 does not indicate when the member and commander were notified, return the DD Form
   139 to the NAFI for completion.
   71.5.3. Collection of Indebtedness from MMPA. Review the DD Form 139 to verify that the debt is
   proper and documentation complete. No collection may be made for the debt of a dependent of any
   member unless a consent agreement is provided. Any FSO may input a valid debt on the MMPA even
   though the member has another servicing FSO. The collection must be a one-time deduction unless
   the debt exceeds two-thirds pay. When the debt exceeds two-thirds pay, at least two-thirds pay must
   be deducted with the balance collected the next month.
       71.5.3.1. Process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type M and the D prefix company code of
       the NAFI shown on Table 50.
       71.5.3.2. If the member is separating within 30 days, compute the amount of pay due the member
       through DOS, including any accrued leave and taking into consideration any other known debts.
       An enlisted member is entitled to one-third of his or her pay for that month, unless the member
       agrees to a collection of all pay. Process a DS01 transaction for only the portion of the debt which
       may be collected from final pay. Use indebtedness type M and the D prefix company code of the
       NAFI shown on Table 50.
       71.5.3.3. Return a posted copy of the DD Form 139 to the NAFI. If only a portion of the indebt-
       edness was collected, indicate on the DD Form 139 that the member has insufficient pay to make
       full collection, the amount collected, and provide the member's future mailing address. When
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1153


       making the separation payment to the member, deduct the amount of specific indebtedness in the
       DS01 transaction processed for the NAFI indebtedness.
       71.5.3.4. If the member disputes collection and the debt was properly processed based on the DD
       Form 139, the member must contact the NAFI to resolve the dispute.

71.6. Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES). A member or a dependent of a member can
become indebted to AAFES for home layaway, rental agreements, or dishonored checks. The member
can also become indebted for a delinquent Deferred Payment Plan (DPP) account. The DoDFMR autho-
rizes involuntary collection from a member's (enlisted or officer) pay for these debts; however, the mem-
ber's written consent is required, prior to collection from pay, for a debt incurred by his/her dependent.
   71.6.1. Notification and Consent Agreement. HQ-AAFES (ADSN 3730) is required to provide the
   member with 'due process' prior to making any collection from pay. They will provide two notices to
   the member requesting payment. If the member does not make payment or does not respond,
   HQ-AAFES will notify the member's commander for assistance. At this point, HQ-AAFES will
   begin collection actions. When the debt is incurred by a member's dependent, HQ-AAFES is required
   to obtain written consent from the member prior to any collection actions.
   71.6.2. Edits. The edits for the DS01 (start), DS04 (change), and DS06 (cancel) for INDEBT-TYPE
   F and company code D005245 will be as follows:
       71.6.2.1. DS01-Start: HQ-AAFES will input a DS01 with an INDEBT-TYPE F and company
       code D005245. The input DS01 SPEC-INDEBT and AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MO fields could
       contain different values. The DS entry SPEC-INDEBT and AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MO will
       contain the value of the input DS01 AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MO field. The DS entry will be
       displayed in the closed portion of the MMPA.
       71.6.2.2. DS04-Change: This transaction will edit against the INDEBT-TYPE (F) and company
       code (D005245) fields only. Since the DS entry will be closed on the MMPA, the edits have been
       changed to process against a closed entry. (The input DS04 SPEC-INDEBT and
       AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MO fields could contain different values.) The DS entry
       SPEC-INDEBT and AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MO field.
NOTE: A DS04 will process against a current month closed for INDEBT-TYPE F only.
       71.6.2.3. DS06-Cancel: This transaction will edit against the INDEBT-TYPE (F) and company
       code (D005245) fields only.
   71.6.3. HQ-AAFES Procedures. After the member has been provided 'due process', HQ-AAFES will
   take the following actions:
       71.6.3.1. Input a DS01 (start) transaction with the INDEBT-TYPE F, company code equal to
       D005245, SPEC-INDEBT equal to the total amount of the debt. Input AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CM
       equal to the deduction amount. The management notice (UR03) will be sent to the finance office
       notifying them that AAFES has processed a DS01 (start).
       71.6.3.2. Input a DS04 (change) transaction whenever an adjustment is required to the debt.
       71.6.3.3. Input a DS06 (cancel) transaction as required.
       71.6.3.4. The transactions will be file transferred via JDC to DFAS-DE, as required.
1154                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       71.6.3.5. HQ-AAFES will be responsible to answer the member's questions regarding the AAFES
       debt.


                      1-800-826-1317 within the United States
                      967-6003 DSN


       71.6.3.6. Members overseas should contact their local AAFES outlet.
   71.6.4. Finance Office Procedures. The finance office will be required to review each MMPA listed
   on the management notice to ensure the deduction amount does not exceed the 2/3 rule.
       71.6.4.1. If the deduction amount exceeds the 2/3 rule, process a DS04 (change) transaction to
       reduce both the AMT-SPEC-INDEBT and AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MO appropriately.
       71.6.4.2. If the member contacts the finance office stating the deduction amount creates a finan-
       cial hardship, the finance office has the option to process a DS04 transaction to reduce both the
       AMT-SPEC-INDEBT and AMT-SPEC-DEDTN-CR-MO to a reasonable amount.
       71.6.4.3. Input a DS06 (cancel) transaction as required. This will be an exception; most of the
       time a DS06 will be processed by HQ-AAFES.
       71.6.4.4. Answer the member's questions regarding the Leave and Earning Statement.

71.7. Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) Tactical Field Exchanges (TFE). A T F E i s
an AAFES activity established to provide merchandise and services to military personnel deployed to an
area where permanent exchange activities do not exist. (See DoDFMR Volume 5, chapter 16.) The TFE
stamps the reverse of each personal check accepted with: "In consideration of the acceptance of payment
by check for AAFES goods and services, I hereby authorize a deduction of the amount of this check from
my pay account in the event this check is returned as dishonored, including interest and processing
charges." The writer is required to sign this clause. The FSO immediately prepares a DD Form 139 for
each dishonored check received and submits it to the appropriate servicing FSO (Military Pay) with a
copy of the front and back of the check. The amount of the indebtedness shown on the DD Form 139 will
be the sum of the check plus the amount of any interest and service charges. The DD Form 139 also
includes a statement that the consent agreement authorizing deduction from pay was signed by the mem-
ber. The servicing FSO notifies the member and processes the collection with a DS01 transaction in
accordance with paragraph 71.6.4.1., 71.6.4.2., or 71.6.4.3.

71.8. Other Service Exchange. A member or dependent of a member may become indebted to the
exchange of the Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard for charges or dishonored checks. The DoDFMR
authorizes involuntary collection from an enlisted member's pay for such indebtedness of the member;
however, collection from any member's pay, if the debt was incurred by a dependent, may not be accom-
plished without the member's consent.
   71.8.1. Consent Agreement. An exchange may require a member to sign a consent agreement before
   authorizing charges or check-cashing privileges for the member or his or her dependent(s). A consent
   agreement is a written statement authorizing deduction from pay for the debt. The agreement must be
   a clear and precise authorization containing the member's SSN and must be signed and dated by the
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1155


  member. The consent agreement may be in any written format so long as the above conditions are
  met. The consent agreement may be withdrawn, in writing, at any time by the member; however, a
  deduction from the member's pay is authorized for the specific debt incurred under the agreement
  before the date the written withdrawal is received by the exchange involved.
  71.8.2. Notification. When an indebtedness occurs, the member should be notified by the exchange
  concerned and asked to make payment of the debt. If the member refuses, does not make payment, or
  does not respond, the exchange notifies the member's unit commander for assistance in collection of
  the debt. If the member is separating within 30 days, notification to the unit commander is waived.
  The DD Form 139 must either state that the member's commander was notified and due process pro-
  cedures, as provided in DODR 7000-14 Volumes 1 and 5, were completed, or have attached to it a
  signed consent agreement. If there is neither the required statement on the DD Form 139 nor signed
  consent agreement attached to it, return the DD Form 139 to the exchange requesting offset.
  71.8.3. Collection of Indebtedness From MMPA. Review the DD Form 139 to verify that the debt is
  proper and documentation complete. No collection may be made for the debt of a dependent of any
  member unless a consent agreement is provided. Any FSO may input a valid debt on the MMPA even
  though the member has another servicing FSO. The collection must be a one-time deduction unless
  the debt exceeds two-thirds pay. When the debt exceeds two-thirds pay, at least two-thirds pay must
  be deducted with the balance collected the next month.
     71.8.3.1. Process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type M and the D prefix company code of
     the exchange shown on Table 50.
     71.8.3.2. If the member is separating within 30 days, compute the amount of pay due the member
     through DOS, including any accrued leave and taking into consideration any other known debts.
     Process a DS01 transaction for only the portion of the debt which may be collected from final pay.
     Use indebtedness type M and the D prefix company code of the exchange shown on Table 50.
     71.8.3.3. Return a posted copy of the DD Form 139 to the exchange. If only a portion of the
     indebtedness was collected, indicate on the DD Form 139 that the member has insufficient pay to
     make full collection, the amount collected, and provide the member's future mailing address.
     When making the separation payment to the member, deduct the amount of specific indebtedness
     in the DS01 transaction processed for the exchange indebtedness.
     71.8.3.4. When the member disputes collection and the debt was properly processed based on the
     DD Form 139, the member must contact the exchange to resolve the dispute.
  71.8.4. Nexcom (Navy Exchange Service) Debts. Effective 1 September 2000 Navy Exchanges
  (Nexcom) will be authorized to process DS transactions directly against Air Force MMPAs for Navy
  Exchange debts. Effective 1 September 2000, Nexcom will advise their offices to begin the direct
  input and to cease issuing DD 139s to finance. However, to take care of the DD 139s already issued
  prior to the 1 September date, FSOs may continue to receive any new DD 139s received prior to 15
  September 2000 until 1 December 2000 if necessary. However, any new DD 139s received after Sep-
  tember 15, 2000 for these debts should be returned to the originating offices. Nexcom has agreed to
  provide due process for these debts and answer questions about these debts. Members questioning
  these debts should be instructed to call Nexcom at their toll free number 1-888-733-9566.
1156                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              Chapter 72

                              INDEBTEDNESS -- NON AIR FORCE

72.1. Description. This chapter contains information on federal tax levies, Bankruptcy and Wage Earner
Plan, Air Force Aid Society and Article 139-UCMJ.

72.2. Federal Tax Levies:
   72.2.1. DFAS-DE/FJPG receives a notice of levy (NOL) from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
   FJPG sends a message notice to the servicing FSO and forwards parts 2-5 to the FSO and monitors
   and posts the indebtedness. Upon receipt of the NOL message, the FSO or representative will:
       72.2.1.1. Contact the member to whom the levy applies and ask the member to appear in the FSO
       within 3 workdays. If the member is on TDY or leave, notify DFAS-DE/FJPG of the expected
       return date. If the member will be TDY and will not return within 14 days, notify the TDY FSO
       to contact the member to complete the necessary forms.
       72.2.1.2. The FSO or representative personally counsels the member on these points:
          72.2.1.2.1. The levy will be applied against the individual's pay as soon as possible and con-
          tinue until the levy is totally satisfied or released by IRS. The law exempts a specific amount
          per month for each authorized dependent included in the TD Form 668-W, Part 3, Statement of
          Personal Exemptions and Filing Status, and an additional amount per month for the member.
          The law also exempts from levy as much of a taxpayer's wages as necessary to comply with a
          judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction, entered before the date of levy, to contribute to
          the support of minor children.
          72.2.1.2.2. All amounts subject to levy, as determined by DoDFMR, Volume 7A, paragraphs
          440204 and 500110, will be sent to IRS.
          72.2.1.2.3. If this results in extreme hardship for the member, and the member wants to estab-
          lish another payment rate, or if the member feels the levy is incorrect, the member contacts the
          IRS office originating the levy. The member may arrange with IRS for the installment collec-
          tion of delinquent taxes. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A, paragraph 440301. Any new payment
          terms or waiver of levy is strictly between the member and IRS. However, this does not stop
          the initial deductions from the MMPA.
          72.2.1.2.4. The member must be given an opportunity to indicate the order in which voluntary
          allotments are to be canceled, if he/she desires, to repay the levy. Allotment stoppage is vol-
          untary except in cases identified by IRS.
          72.2.1.2.5. Obtain a signed TD Form 668-W, parts 3 and 4 from the member. The member
          must submit a new TD Form 668-W, parts 3 and 4 if the number of dependents changes during
          the levy collection period.
       72.2.1.3. Supports a member's claim of a levy exemption by virtue of court-ordered child support
       with a copy of such court-ordered decree of judgment. TD Forms 668-W can be obtained from the
       local IRS office if one is not furnished by FJPG.
       72.2.1.4. After obtaining the completed TD Form 668-W, notifies DFAS-DE/FJPG by message of
       the number of dependents, excluding the member and the availability of the levy exemption for
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              1157


      court-ordered child support, with hardcopy to follow. If member requests stoppage of allotments
      to repay levy, process appropriate transactions.
      72.2.1.5. Gives the member a copy of the reverse of part 5, TD Form 668-W, or the instructions as
      written in Figure 72.2. before requiring completion of the foregoing statement of personal exemp-
      tions.
      72.2.1.6. When the statement of personal exemptions or TD Form 668-W, parts 3, 4 and 5, has
      been completed, gives the member Part 5 and sends Parts 3 and 4 to DFAS-DE/FJPG.
      72.2.1.7. If no TD Form 668-W (Parts 3, 4, and 5) is available, types on 8 1/2" X 11" paper, in
      triplicate, the statement of exemptions as written in Figure 72.1.
   72.2.2. If the member has an NOL being deducted and files a current year return showing a refund
   due, IRS will normally use the refund to offset any prior tax levies. IRS will do this for any payroll
   deductions not received from DFAS-DE/FJFBB. The member receives a notice of this action from
   IRS and IRS then forwards either a partial or full release of levy (ROL) to DFAS-DE. If this results in
   an over-deduction from the member, DFAS-DE refunds all money collected from the member but not
   disbursed. If this does not satisfy the total of all deductions for the member, only IRS will refund the
   member, not DFAS-DE.
   72.2.3. The levy is processed as a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type N and the IRS D prefix
   company code.

72.3. Bankruptcy and Wage Earner Plan. There are two types of bankruptcies that a member may file
with a court. One is straight bankruptcy and the other is a Wage Earner Plan (WEP).
   72.3.1. Straight Bankruptcy. This type of bankruptcy is filed under chapters I through VII of the
   Bankruptcy Act. Debts listed on the bankruptcy petition may not be collected until the court has ruled
   on the petition. The debts are either secured or unsecured. However, debts on the member's MMPA
   are considered priority unsecured.
      72.3.1.1. A copy of the bankruptcy petition is forwarded to DFAS-DE/DGG by the court's bank-
      ruptcy clerk. If the FSO receives a copy of the petition, contact DFAS-DE/DGG to determine if
      they have received a copy. The FSO should not stop collection of any debts.
      72.3.1.2. In some cases, the first notification that the member filed a petition is receipt of the final
      court proceedings. If the FSO receives a copy of the court finding, contact DFAS-DE/DGG to
      determine if they have received a copy.
      72.3.1.3. Upon receipt of a bankruptcy order, DFAS-DE/DGG reviews the order to determine if it
      is the member's petition or the court's final proceedings. The member's current MMPA is
      reviewed to determine if any MMPA debts are affected. DFAS-DE-FJPG will take any action
      needed to suspend, cancel, or refund any amount collected from the date of the filing of the peti-
      tion.
      72.3.1.4. If the order is the initial petition, DFAS-DE/FJPG prepares a United States District
      Court proof of claim and forwards it to DFAS-DE/DG and HQ USAF/JACL. HQ USAF/JACL
      sends the documentation to the United States Attorney, in the area where the member filed the
      bankruptcy, to represent the Air Force in any court proceedings.
1158                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       72.3.1.5. Any debt created after the date the bankruptcy was filed is not part of the bankruptcy.
       However, if the overpayment date of the debt is before the filing of the bankruptcy, and the debt is
       listed on the petition, the debt is considered a part of the bankruptcy even though the debt has not
       yet been posted to the MMPA. The FSO must notify DFAS-DE/FJPG of any bankruptcy debts not
       yet posted to the MMPA.
       72.3.1.6. If the debt is not listed on the petition, no stoppage, cancellation, or refund is made until
       the member has petitioned the court for an amendment and DFAS-DE/FJPG has received a copy
       of the amendment.
       72.3.1.7. If a debt for excess cost of household goods (HHG), trailer move, or hold baggage is a
       part of the bankruptcy and additional excess cost is received later for the same PCS move, the
       additional excess cost is considered part of the bankruptcy. The FSO must notify DFAS-DE/FJPG
       upon receipt of a new DD Form 139.
   72.3.2. Wage Earner Plan (WEP). This type of bankruptcy is filed under chapter XIII of the Bank-
   ruptcy Act, as amended by the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. Under WEP, the member agrees to
   pay all of his or her commercial and government debts, but the accumulated monthly payments have
   placed the member in a financial hardship. The member petitions the court to make a repayment of
   debts at a lower rate. The creditor, by accepting the WEP, waives all rights to any interest charge and
   may have to accept less than 100 percent of the debt. The court appoints a trustee to receive the mem-
   ber's pay and distribute the pay to the creditor.
       72.3.2.1. Upon receipt of the court-approved WEP from the DFAS-DE/DGG, DFAS-DE/FJPG
       sends a message notifying the servicing FSO that a court approved WEP has been received. The
       message will state the total amount of the WEP, the monthly deduction amount and the month the
       deduction will begin. DFAS-DE/FJPG will process a DS01, indebtedness type B, with the appro-
       priate D company code to start the deduction.
       72.3.2.2. The FSO may not at any time process a DS transaction that will cause a WEP to be
       started or altered in any way. If the FSO receives any court documents concerning a WEP, the
       documents must be immediately forwarded to DFAS-DE/FJPG through DFAS-DE/DGG.
       72.3.2.3. United States debts accumulated after the WEP have priority for deduction over the
       WEP.
   72.3.3. WEP and Straight Bankruptcy. If a member has a WEP and is filing a straight bankruptcy, the
   FSO must immediately forward the court document to DFAS-DE/FJPG through DFAS-DE/DGG so
   that the WEP deduction can be stopped.
   72.3.4. Alimony and Child Support Payments. A member cannot claim alimony and child support
   payments as part of a bankruptcy even though the payments were caused by a garnishment of wages.

72.4. Recoupment of Monies Owed Air Force Aid Society (AFAS) From Final Pay. Approximately
5 to 10 days prior to separation, AFAS will provide the FSO with an AFAS Form 9 (original and 3 copies)
for those members AFAS wishes to collect from. The AFAS Form 9 will certify that due process require-
ments have been met by AFAS and request collection of a specified amount from the member's final pay.
Upon receipt of the AFAS Form 9, the FSO will:
   72.4.1. Complete block 9 of the form. Block 9 will show the amount determined by the FSO to be
   available for collection of the debt. The deduction amount will be that portion of the amount shown
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1159


   in block 7 which the FSO determines is available for collection from the member's final pay only. The
   order of precedence shown in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, table 52-1, will be used.
   72.4.2. Complete block 10 of the form. (DJMS Input) This will be the amount of the debt remaining
   after the FSO deduction (block 8 minus block 9).
   72.4.3. Acknowledge the transaction by signing in block 12.
   72.4.4. Deduct the debt from the member's final pay only using a DS transaction to Company Code
   D000709, use indebtedness type V.
   72.4.5. When member out-processes through the FSO have member sign in Block 13. (If member
   refuses to sign block 14, or does not out-process through Accounting and Finance, annotate this fact
   on the Form 9. However, in either of these cases, the collection should be processed).
   72.4.6. Retain the original copy of AFAS Form 9 as a supporting document.
   72.4.7. Provide the last copy to the member and return the second and fourth copies to the AFAS sec-
   tion.

72.5. Article 139, Uniform Code of Military Justice. An Air Force member becoming indebted to a
non-government activity may have collection action taken per AFI 51-501, chapter 5. The FSO should
process a DS01 transaction with indebtedness type code V and a one-time collection, providing the mem-
ber's pay account has sufficient pay available for a one-time collection. Otherwise, process a DS01 trans-
action to provide for prompt collection of the debt. The FSO's D prefix company code should be used in
the DS01 transaction. When the FSO receives the Detail Supporting DJMS-AC Miscellaneous Deduc-
tions Report at the end of the month, deposit the funds in 57F3875, Budget Clearing Account (Suspense)
Air Force. Then prepare an SF 1049, Public Voucher for Refund, to issue a check to the non-government
activity. Provide a complete explanation on the SF 1047 for the payment.

72.6. Bank of America Travel Card Debts. The travel and transportation reform act of 1998 (PL
105-264) established policies for DoD to collect travel card delinquent debts. The current contract for
travel card use is with the Bank of America (BOA). Once a travel card debt is unpaid over 90 days, the
company must provide the member with due process at the last known address. If no response within the
next 30 days, the debt is referred to DFAS for collection action (now 120 days delinquent). Reference
DoDFMR, Vol 7A, 500104B.
   72.6.1. BOA forwards a file of debts to DFAS-AHA/CL (Project Management Office) once a month
   to start collection action via the Salary Offset Program. DFAS-CL identifies members on this list hav-
   ing an active DJMS-AC account and refers the debt collection start actions to DJMS-AC.
   72.6.2. The Salary Offset Program automatically establishes a DS type T debt, company code
   D410742, against the member’s pay account computing 15% of disposable pay. At the same time the
   program sends the member a courtesy “Notice of Collection Action” letter telling members to call
   BOA with any inquiries and sends a management notice to the FSO.
   72.6.3. DFAS is without authority to adjudicate debts on behalf of BOA. The member must work
   directly with BOA to correct any discrepancies.
   72.6.4. If BOA receives payment in full and wishes to discontinue collection action, they send a stop
   collection request to DFAS-CL. DFAS-CL forwards a weekly listing of accounts, to DJMS-AC, for
1160                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   automatic stop actions. This stop process normally takes sixty days to complete from the time the
   debt is paid in full at BOA.
   72.6.5. All refunds of amounts over-collected, or collected in error, are refunded directly to the mem-
   ber by BOA.

72.7. Treasury Offset Program (TOP). The Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 requires all fed-
eral agencies to have TOP collect any debts due them. The agency must provide due process notice of the
debt to the member’s last known address. TOP debts follow the same salary offset procedures as BOA
debts (see paragraph 72.6. above).
   72.7.1. The system automatically establishes DS type T debts, company code D411955, for TOP
   debts.
   72.7.2. Members must contact the treasury offset program office at (800) 304-3107 for all inquiries.
   DFAS cannot administer these debts. All negotiations must go through TOP to the federal agency
   holding the debt.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1161


Figure 72.1. Member's Instructions for Preparing Statement of Personal Exemptions.


     THE FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN TO THE MEMBER BEFORE
  COMPLETING THE STATEMENT OF PERSONAL EXEMPTIONS ON TD FORM 668-W:


(Extracted From Part 7, TD Form 668-W)

"Instructions: A levy was served on the person named on the front of this form. The information you pro-
vide on this form will be used by that person to figure the amount of your income that the law exempts
from levy. You are allowed $325 each month as a personal exemption for yourself. You are also allowed
an exemption of $108.33 a month for each person you list as an exemption on this form."

"1. If you are married and provide over one-half of your spouse's support, enter your spouse's name. If
you provide over one-half of the support of any of the individuals listed below, enter their names also. If
you are required by a court judgment (made before the date of this levy) to contribute to the support of
your minor children, then the amount of your wages, salary, or other income necessary to comply with the
judgment is already exempt from the levy, and such minor children should not be listed as exemptions.
        (a) your son, daughter, or grandchild,
        (b) your stepson or stepdaughter,
        (c) your brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister
        (d) your father, mother, or grandparent,
        (e) your stepfather or stepmother,
        (f) a nephew or niece related by blood,
        (g) an uncle or aunt related by blood,
        (h) your son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, sister-in-law, or
brother-in-law,
        (i) a person (other than your spouse) who is living in your home as a member of your household
during the applicable pay periods."

"2. Please complete Parts 5, 6, and 7; sign and date them. Keep Part 7 for your records. Give parts 5 and
6 to your payroll officer or timekeeper, as instructed, within 3 work-days from the date you received them.
If you do not complete and submit this form, you will be allowed only the $325 personal exemption from
levy."

"3. If the number of your exemptions changes during the time the levy is in effect, please file another
Statement of Exemptions with the person on whom the levy was served. You can get more forms from an
Internal Revenue Service office."

"4. The information you provide is submitted under penalties of perjury and is subject to verification by
the Internal Revenue Service."
1162                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 72.2. Format to Change Advance Payment or Monetary Punishment.


 CHARACTER                                  DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5     0DT04


       6-14     SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


       15-19    FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


       20-25    YYMMDD CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE


       32-40    CURRENT MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


       41-49    NEW MONTHLY DEDUCTION AMOUNT


        50      INDEBTEDNESS TYPE CODE:
                3--ADVANCE PAYMENT (DV)
                T—MONETARY PUNISHMENT (DF)


        51      ADVANCE PAY CATEGORY (SEE Attachment 3)


       52-55    NEW START DATE IF CP 51 IS S; OTHERWISE BLANK
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              1163


                                                Chapter 73

                                      REMISSION AND WAIVER

Section 73A—Remissions.

73.1. Description. A military member or his or her Commander may apply for remission of an indebted-
ness to the United States. The Secretary of the Air Force may have remitted or cancelled any part of a
member’s indebtedness to the United States Air Force or any instrumentality of the United States,
incurred while the member was serving on active duty, if he/she considers it to be in the best interest of the
United States. Generally, any indebtedness may be considered for remission including those listed in the
DoDFMR, Vol 7A, tables 50-1, 50-3, and 50-4. Debts may be processed for remission even if relief action
has been denied under appeal provisions first. The debt must be within Air Force jurisdiction.

73.2. Substantiating Documents:
   73.2.1. DD Form 2789. Member furnishes all information required on DD Form 2789, Waiver/
   Remission of Indebtedness Application, Section I. (See Figure 73.1.)
   73.2.2. AF Form 2451. Member completes AF Form 2451, Financial Statement--Remission of
   Indebtedness, Section I (see Figure 73.2.), if hardship is a factor, and furnishes proof of monthly
   installment payments. Do not list deductions for bonds, savings, and IRA.

73.3. FSO:
   73.3.1. Ensures all blocks of DD Form 2789 are completed and requests clarification if necessary.
   Completes DD Form 2789, section II. (See Figure 73.1.) These documents are essential to the pro-
   cessing of remission cases; therefore, it is imperative they be included. The FSO should ensure that
   blocks 21 and 23, section II of the DD Form 2789 have meaningful statements based on the merits of
   the case. A statement, such as the member should pay because he or she owes, is insufficient as it does
   not consider good faith, hardship, or other aspects of the case. The Air Force Financial Services Cen-
   ter (AFFSC) advises the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/MRB) whether they agree with
   the FSO's recommendation, attaching the following documents and information pertaining to the debt:
1164                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Table 73.1. replace with the following:
Documents:                                             Information Needed:

1. Proof of court decision and proof of payment for    If member claims alimony or child support on
alimony and/or child support                           financial statement.

2. Debt rebuttal and appeal documents to include the   When rebuttal and/or appeal has been exercised.
final determination.

3. Leave and Earnings Statement (LES)                  Pay and allowances debts.

4. Debt source documents and a detailed debt           All cases.
computation.

5. AF Form 417, Certification for Payment Under        DITY move debts.
Do-It-Yourself (DITY) Move Certification, DD
Form 2278, Do-It-Yourself Move and Counseling
Checklist, DD Form 1155, Order for Supplies or
Services/Request for Quotations, DD Form 1299,
Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal
Property.

6. AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to       BAH Debts
Start, Stop or Change Basic Allowance for Quarters
(BAQ) or Dependency Re-determination.

7. Aeronautical Orders.                                Flying pay debts.

8. DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of   Government Property Lost or Damaged (GPLD)
Property Loss                                          debts.

9. Reenlistment Contracts.                             Reenlistment bonus debts, including reason for
                                                       recoupment.

10. DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization.         Household goods (HHG), debts.

11. DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or                  Travel debts.
Sub-voucher.

12. AF Form 1613, Statement of Service.                Pay date debts.

13. DD Form 139 and provide total amount of            Shipment of house trailer debts.
unauthorized accessorial charges.

14. Proof of payment of alimony and/or child support   If the debt resulted from erroneous payment of BAH.
for the complete period of the debt.

15. HPSP contract                                      Paydate changes for doctors.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1165


   73.3.2. If member has submitted AF Form 2451, verifies that installment amounts are the minimum
   required by the creditors and the expiration dates of installment payments are correct. If necessary,
   change or delete amounts and dates. Also, amounts for medical and dental expenses must be validated
   and explained. Complete AF Form 2451, Section II, (see Figure 73.2.) and attach proof of installment
   payments and proof of child support or alimony, if applicable.
   73.3.3. If member refuses to submit an AF Form 2451, he or she should be advised that the remission
   request will then be considered without regard to any mitigating information concerning ability to pay
   that might be included in the application. Member must acknowledge in writing that he or she has
   been so advised.
   73.3.4. Contact the unit commander only if there are unusual factors regarding the member which
   would have a bearing on the case. Input will be accepted in letter format.
   73.3.5. Ensure the debt is processed and suspended on the master military pay account (MMPA). Ini-
   tiate action to withhold pay, if appropriate, as outlined in Chapter 66, paragraph 66.3.
   73.3.6. Within 30 days of receipt from member, transmit remission application with supporting docu-
   mentation in original and one copy to the AFFSC. Scan the remission application and supporting doc-
   uments, attaching the completed application file to an email submitted to
   affsc.remission@ellsworth.af.mil. Keep a complete copy of remission package in the FSO manage-
   ment case file (MCF). (See paragraph 69.10.) MAJCOM/FMF functions are not required to routinely
   review remission cases but may choose to become involved. If group submission, contact the AFFSC,
   at the above email address, or by phone at DSN 657-8000, commercial (605)385-8000, before pro-
   cessing.
   73.3.7. If member's date of separation (DOS) is within 90 days, annotate on the front of DD Form
   2789 "PRIORITY-DOS (date)."
   73.3.8. Deleted

73.4. AFFSC:
   73.4.1. Following receipt of the completed remission application, the AFFSC Remissions section
   reviews the application and the member’s MMPA, prepares an administrative report with their recom-
   mendations, and submits the case, using the Case Management Tracking System (CMTS), to SAF/
   MRB for final adjudication.
   73.4.2. Upon receipt of the SAF/MRB decision, AFFSC processes appropriate input transactions into
   DJMS. For miscellaneous-type debts, AFFSC prepares a DD Form 139 and forwards it to the com-
   pany code assigned to the debt. The AFFSC notifies the FSO, via email message, of the final determi-
   nation. The FSO notifies the member, via email or a copy of the DD Form 139, whichever is
   appropriate. The FSO can increase the pay rate established on the DD Form 139 if the member con-
   curs. A request for decreases in rates below the amount in the remission decision must be forwarded
   to the AFFSC. The FSO provides comment on the reasonableness of the request. If hardship is the
   basis, a financial statement must be submitted.

73.5. Special Provisions. Re-application for Remission. Once a determination has been made, the SAF/
MRB does not review a re-submission unless there is additional information or a changed financial situa-
tion. If there is additional information, documentation, or new evidence it should be forwarded in writing
to the AFFSC.
1166                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Section 73B—Waivers.

73.6. General. Public Law 92-453, 10 U.S.C. 2774, and DoDI 1340.23, prescribe standards for the
waiver of claims of the United States against a member arising out of an erroneous payment of pay and
allowances including travel or transportation allowance made after 28 Dec 1985, if recovery is deter-
mined to be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States. Gener-
ally, these criteria will be met by a finding that the erroneous payment occurred through administrative
error and that there is no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of
the member or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim.
   73.6.1. Application for waiver must be received by the Department of Hearings and Appeals
   (DOHA)office of the Comptroller General, or the department concerned, within 5 years from the date
   the erroneous payment was discovered. Date of discovery for starting the 5-year period is the date that
   an appropriate official first definitely determines that an erroneous payment has been made.
   73.6.2. DFAS-JFEAB/IN initiates refund action on any amount due the member.

73.7. Substantiating Documents. Member completes DD Form 2789, Waiver/Remission of Indebted-
ness Application, Section I. (See Figure 73.1.) All information requested must be furnished, including
negative replies. Failure to furnish complete and accurate details may cause the return of the application
to the member and delay waiver action.

73.8. FSO:
   73.8.1. Screens the entries in Section I of DD Form 2789, clarifies any discrepancies, and completes
   Section II of DD Form 2789 (see Figure 73.1.). Attaches supporting documents, including a detailed
   debt computation. Suspends collection action while case is being considered for waiver.
       73.8.1.1. Waiver will probably be granted.
       73.8.1.2. Erroneous payment can be recovered if waiver is not granted.
       73.8.1.3. Collection of the debt will cause undue hardship.
   73.8.2. Transmits waiver application with supporting documentation in original and one copy to
   Defense Finance and Accounting Service, 8899 East 56th Street, Dept. 3300 (Waivers/Remissions),
   Indianapolis IN 46249-3300, upon completion of Section II of DD Form 2789. Keep a complete copy
   of waiver package in the FSO management case file. (See paragraph 69.10.) MAJCOM/FMF func-
   tions are not required to routinely review waiver cases but FMF may choose to become involved. If
   group submission, contact JFEAB before processing.
   73.8.3. If notification has not been received on adjudication, and no N9 memo entry reflects action,
   follow up with DFAS-JFEAB/IN after 45 days from date of submission.

73.9. DFAS-IN:
   73.9.1. JFEAB receives waiver application and opens the case on the Defense Debt Management Sys-
   tem (DDMS).
   73.9.2. After notification of waiver decision is received, JFEAB accomplishes input of appropriate
   transactions to DJMS. For miscellaneous-type debts, JFEAB prepares a DD Form 139 and forwards it
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     1167


  to the company code assigned to the debt. The FSO and the member are provided information on the
  final determination by letter. DFAS-JFEAB/IN initiates refund action on any amount due the member.
1168                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 73.1. DD Form 2789, Waiver/Remission of Indebtedness .Application.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007   1169
1170                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 73.2. AF Form 2451, Financial Statement - Remission of Indebtedness.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                1171


Figure 73.2. AF Form 2451, Financial Statement - Remission of Indebtedness (continued).
1172                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              Chapter 74

                                               CLAIMS

74.1. Description:
   74.1.1. In-Service Claims. Any written request or inquiry for pay and allowances due. When the
   input source can determine entitlement, they handle the transaction as a retroactive adjustment and
   submit a regular DJMS input transaction. The inquiry procedure (Chapter 5) can be used to deter-
   mine previous periods of entitlements credited to member's account.
   74.1.2. Out-of-Service Claim. Any request or inquiry for additional pay and allowances due from the
   Air Force for a separated member. Also, any action by the Air Force that results in additional pay or
   allowances due a separated member.
   74.1.3. Previous Service Claim. Any request or inquiry for pay and allowances due for a period of
   previous service from an Air Force member who was separated and had a break in service of 1 day or
   more. Regular DJMS input cannot be used for a period of prior service regardless of time factors
   involved. These claims are processed the same as in-service claims sent to DFAS-POCC/DE
   74.1.4. Doubtful Claim. Generally a doubtful claim is one involving a question of propriety of pay-
   ment rather than adequacy of documentation. A doubtful claim is a claim in which the agency, rather
   than the claimant, is not sure whether the claim should be paid. A claim is doubtful when in the exer-
   cise of reasonable prudence either a person having final responsibility for deciding appropriate admin-
   istrative action or the person who, in accordance with applicable statutes, will be held accountable if
   the claim were paid and then found to be incorrect, illegal, or improper, is unable to decide with rea-
   sonable certainty the validity and correctness of the claim.
   74.1.5. Travel and Transportation Allowances. Follow procedures in AFI 65-114.
   74.1.6. Shipment of Personal Property Claim. Any request to the Defense Office of Hearings and
   Appeals (DOHA) for a refund of an amount previously collected for excess cost of a shipment of per-
   sonal property.
   74.1.7. Advance Decision. See DoDFMR, Vol 5, chapter 25.
   74.1.8. Appeal (Reclaim). When a member is not satisfied with the determination of the agency adju-
   dicating his/her claim, the member may appeal the determination to the claims group, Defense Office
   of Hearings and Appeals. In an appeal (or reclaim), the agency position is clear, which usually
   involves a determination that the claim should not be paid.

74.2. Supporting Documents for In-Service Claims:
   74.2.1. When member believes he or she is due additional pay or allowance, the member:
       74.2.1.1. Prepares a claim letter which includes:
          74.2.1.1.1. Date prepared.
          74.2.1.1.2. Identification of items claimed, period(s) involved, and amounts, if available.
          74.2.1.1.3. Claimant's signature and SSN.
       74.2.1.2. Attaches any documents that support payment.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1173


      74.2.1.3. Submits claim to the FSO.
   74.2.2. FSO Actions. FSO reviews claim, and:
      74.2.2.1. Verifies previous periods of entitlement credited to member's account through inquiry
      procedures (Chapter 5). If a determination can be made regarding entitlement, prepare a regular
      DJMS input transaction and submit to DFAS-DE. Attach claim to substantiating document.
      74.2.2.2. If adjudication of claim requires verification of creditable service beyond local capabil-
      ity, request verification directly from HQ AFPC/DPPA. They either forward input to DFAS-JM/
      DE for adjustment of member's account or advise member that claim is invalid.
      74.2.2.3. Submission of claim to DFAS-JECC/DE presumes that information cannot be obtained
      from AFAFO through inquiry channels or from other sources. Before submitting a claim that does
      not have enough information or documentation, try to obtain missing information or documenta-
      tion.
          74.2.2.3.1. If an interpretation of policy or legislation is required, MAJCOM submits a
          request to AFAFO to obtain the interpretation. Once the missing interpretation of policy or
          legislation has been obtained, FSO either forwards input to DFAS-JM/DE for adjustment of
          member’s account or advises member that claim is invalid.
          74.2.2.3.2. If, after trying to obtain missing information or documentation, the claim still does
          not have enough information or documentation, submit to DFAS-JEC/DE through MAJCOM
          for submission of a doubtful claim to DOHA.
          74.2.2.3.3. For either 74.2.2.3.1. or 74.2.2.3.2. above include the following documentation:
             74.2.2.3.3.1. signed claim and any supporting documents and,
             74.2.2.3.3.2. a letter of transmittal stating: facts surrounding claim, statement of questions
             to be resolved, FSO’s recommendations concerning payment and reason, or reasons for no
             specific recommendation.
          74.2.2.3.4. if member wishes to submit an appeal of an agency determination (see definition
          of appeal in paragraph 74.1.), submit package (including agency’s determination) to
          DFAS-POCC/DE for submission to DOHA.
      74.2.2.4. If the claim involves questionable marriages or validation of with-dependent rate BAH
      received on behalf of a purported spouse, submit as doubtful claim to DFAS-JMOB/DE. Refer to
      the JFTR, Chapter 10, Housing Allowances for additional guidance and information.

74.3. Excess Cost on a Shipment of Personal Property. A claim may only be submitted for an account
which has previously been collected. Any amount not collected may not be included in the claim.
   74.3.1. Substantiating Documents. When a member believes he or she is due an amount which was
   collected for excess cost, the member:
      74.3.1.1. Prepares a claim letter which includes:
          74.3.1.1.1. Date prepared.
          74.3.1.1.2. Identification of period involved, amount claimed and reason for claim.
1174                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


          74.3.1.1.3. Date of rebuttal to JPPSO-SAT/ECAF. Attach copy of complete rebuttal package
          with determination. If rebuttal was not submitted, explain in detail why a rebuttal to the claim
          was not submitted before.
          74.3.1.1.4. If member is enlisted, state whether a remission application was submitted and
          date. Attach a copy of the remission application and adjudicated DD Form 139, Pay Adjust-
          ment Authorization.
          74.3.1.1.5. Claimant’s signature and SSN.
       74.3.1.2. Attaches any documents which support claim.
       74.3.1.3. Submits claim to FSO.
   74.3.2. FSO Actions. Reviews the claim and ensures all applicable information is included. Com-
   pletes the claim per DoDFMR, Vol 5. Prepares a transmittal letter addressed to AFAFO and
   JPPSO-SAT/ECAF in turn. Then forwards the complete claim package to AFAFO or the MAJCOM,
   if so directed by the MAJCOM. The debt may not be suspended when the claim is submitted.
   74.3.3. DFAS-DE Actions on Claims from Separated Members.
       74.3.3.1. DFAS-JEC/DE settles claims from separated members, unless account is still in the
       computer, then the claim(s) are processed by DFAS-JMC/DE. FSO assists separated member in
       filing claim if the claimant contacts the FSO.
       74.3.3.2. DFAS-JEC/DE either settles member's claim or forwards it to Claims Group-GGD,
       Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals, Washington DC 20548-0001, for final settlement.
       DFAS-JEC/DE follows up on unsettled DOHA claim 6 months after claim is sent to DOHA and
       every 6 months thereafter until claim is settled. DFAS-JEC/DE sends status report to MAJCOM
       that submitted claim after reply is received from DOHA.

74.4. Claims Involving Agencies Outside Air Force. Process as prescribed by the agency concerned.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1175


                                              Chapter 75

                                               SAVE PAY

75.1. Description. SAVE PAY is a taxable (FICA/FITW/SITW) monthly entitlement paid whenever
Congressional Act or policy decision provides an additional amount of money to avoid a reduction in pay.
The rate of SAVE PAY is determined by the language contained in the Congressional Act or policy deci-
sion affecting the specific event or type.

75.2. Types. Currently SAVE PAY is provided to:
   75.2.1. Physicians' Assistants - These members are previously senior noncommissioned officers who
   are commissioned as physicians' assistants. SAVE PAY ensures that the member's gross pay as an 01
   is not less than what it was as an enlisted member.
   75.2.2. Physicians - These members are authorized SAVE PAY by the Uniformed Services Health
   Professions Act of 1980, implemented 1 July 1980. This Act reallocated the medical special pay for
   physicians and provided that no physician would receive less than the total of medical special pays
   and basic pay to which they were entitled before the Act.
   75.2.3. Former Warrant Officers - These members are former warrant officers of another service,
   who, without a break of service, entered the Air Force as a commissioned officer. SAVE PAY ensures
   the commissioned officer pay is not less than the previous warrant officer pay.
   75.2.4. OTS Graduates or Direct Commissions - NCOs are accepted to OTS and commissioned upon
   graduation. Their gross pay as officers cannot be less than what it was while holding their enlisted
   grade.
   75.2.5. Dental Officers - These officers were authorized SAVE PAY by DoD Directive 1340.8, dated
   21 Feb 1986. The directive stipulates that a dental officer who is entitled to special pay under 37 USC
   302b (reference (b)) shall be entitled to such pay effective 1 Oct 1985 in an annual amount that is not
   less than the total annual amount of dental continuation pay and special pay for dental officers under
   former sections 311 and 302b of reference (b), respectively, to which that officer was entitled on 30
   Sep 1985.

75.3. Source of Input. FID 09 input is restricted to DFAS-DE. If a transaction affects an entitlement for
the specific SAVE PAY type, a processed for review management notice is generated to DFAS-DE/FJPAD
for determination of the impact of the transaction on SAVE PAY and necessary adjustments.

75.4. Interface with Accessions. If a FID E203 is received containing a Prior-Service-Grade-Code of W
(Warrant Officer), the accession subsystem provides an MQY management notice to DFAS-DE.
DFAS-DE/FJ obtains the member's records from the other service to prepare a SAVE PAY calculation.
(Warrant officers are paid as staff sergeants while in OTS. The SAVE PAY is not effective until the actual
commission is received.)

75.5. Interface with Change of Category (E6). If an E603 is processed and the member is changing
category (enlisted to officer or officer to enlisted), an MRB management notice is received at DFAS-DE
to indicate the member has received a commission and may be entitled to SAVE PAY. DFAS-DE/FJ com-
1176                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


putes any SAVE PAY and inputs the 09 transaction. If, in the case of a prior warrant officer, the E6 has
not processed in 75 days from the E2, a suspense transaction is rejected to DFAS-DE/FJ for review.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1177


                                              Chapter 76

                  VOUCHER PROCESSING, DISPOSITION AND BALANCING

76.1. Description. The value of money lists or payment vouchers, covering payrolls reported through
financial returns of DAOs, are automatically compared, at the central site, against the actual value of
money lists or payrolls, and discrepancies disclosed are properly adjusted. Internal review and adminis-
trative examination procedures are applied to ensure that the system is operating as intended, to disclose
and correct any system weaknesses, to detect and adjust overpayments and underpayments and to ensure
that military service stewardship responsibility for government funds is properly discharged. These pro-
cedures will pay particular attention to detection of, and prompt action in, fraud cases.

76.2. Substantiating Documents:
   76.2.1. DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher, used to summarize these types of payments:
       76.2.1.1. Locally authorized payments made to Air Force members and recorded on AF Form
       265, AFO Payment Authorization (JUMPS), (advances, partials, etc.).
       76.2.1.2. Centrally authorized payments on one-time pay authorizations (reenlistment bonus
       increments, variable reenlistment bonus increments, etc.).
   76.2.2. DD Form 397, Claim Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment, used to pay des-
   ignated beneficiaries of deceased members, when supported by all legal documents required per
   Chapter 54.
   76.2.3. SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal, used to pay prior
   service members a clothing monetary allowance, initial (CMAI), etc.
   76.2.4. DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, supported by required documents designating pur-
   pose of collection and other data necessary to process transaction.
   76.2.5. SF 1098, Schedule of Canceled or Undelivered Checks, used to identify service member when
   processing collection transaction.
   76.2.6. DD Form 1351-6, Multiple Payments List, used to support multiple payments on one voucher.

76.3. Voucher Numbering Scheme:
   76.3.1. Disbursing Vouchers.
       76.3.1.1. Finance numbers all manual vouchers and automated vouchers generated out of normal
       mid-month and end-of-month payrolls for off-line payments with consecutive numbers beginning
       with 0000001 each new FY; prefix each number with letter P (P0000001).
       76.3.1.2. The Base Accounts Receivable System (BARS) generates a voucher for those members
       having voluntary payroll deductions for accounts receivable debts. These vouchers have an
       I-series prefix and generate a PK03 for posting to the member's MMPA.
       76.3.1.3. Finance numbers all disbursement vouchers for automated daily payments (example:
       one-time bonuses) made at central site with consecutive numbers beginning with 000001 each
       new FY; prefix each number with letters KA (KA000001).
1178                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   76.3.2. Collection Vouchers. Finance assigns voucher numbers to all collection vouchers prepared in
   finance. When military pay collections are made directly to cashier, the cashier obtains a collection
   voucher number from finance. Numbers are consecutive beginning with 000001 each new FY; prefix
   each number with letters CP (CP000001).
   76.3.3. Voucher Control Logs. Finance maintains a log of all disbursement vouchers certified for
   payment, and a separate log of collection vouchers. These logs list each voucher number assigned in
   numerical sequence. All numbers must be accounted for. Voucher numbers not used for any reason
   must be fully explained on the log.
   76.3.4. Number of Copies and Distribution. Prepare pay vouchers and supporting documents in at
   least an original and two copies for distribution:
       76.3.4.1. Original -- to DFAS-DE with original money accounts.
       76.3.4.2. First copy -- to DAO-retained accounts.
       76.3.4.3. Second copy -- retained by FSO for answering inquiries. An additional copy is required
       when vouchers are prepared by an accounting and disbursing agent or disbursing agent. An addi-
       tional copy is required for DFAS-DE when an installation cannot provide machine-sensitive data
       to DFAS-DE. In this event, DFAS-DE will input payment and collection data for entry to the
       MMPA.

76.4. Voucher Preparation. Supporting attachments prepared per instructions in Chapter 2 must be
examined closely for completeness before summary information is inserted on vouchers. Do not prepare
vouchers for over or underpayments of less than $1. In instances of underpayment, the member should be
contacted to see if payment is desired. Complete voucher contents as follows:
   76.4.1. Enter detail accounting classification breakout by amount for processing DJMS, MAFR, and
   IBP. NOTE: Only the current fiscal year is available (authorized) when citing 57*3500 program 510,
   530 or project 561.
   76.4.2. Record the purpose of the payment or collection on the voucher being processed. The DD
   Form 1351-6 or a supplemental machine listing is attached to a DD Form 117 to support multiple pay-
   ments on one voucher. Single payments (to one member) may be reported on DD Form 117 without a
   supporting DD Form 1351-6. Show member's name, SSN, etc., in open block on form.
   76.4.3. Assign document control number per Chapter 2.
   76.4.4. Make sure detail amounts supporting voucher equal total amount.

76.5. Voucher Total Input Transactions. For each payment voucher, a PZ total transaction is required
for the total of all 510 payments and one for the total of all 530 payments (FIDs PA, PC, PD, PF, PG, PJ,
PK, PL, PM, PQ, PV) on the voucher. Likewise, for each collection voucher, a C9 is required for the total
of all 510 collections and one for all 530 collections (C1 and/or C2) on the voucher. Payment or collec-
tion inputs for TLA (PS), initial clothing allowance (PT), or death gratuity payment (PE) do not require a
total card. These payments or collections are made from other than budget program 510/530 and are
memorandum entries not reconciled in voucher balancing. The format for reporting voucher total trans-
actions is shown in Figure 76.8. For any payment requiring a PZ transaction, input the PZ and related
detail (detail refers to a posting to an individual MMPA) in the first DJMS update after the day of pay-
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1179


ment. For the total and detail transactions to successfully balance in DJMS, the sum of the detail transac-
tions must equal the total record. Figure 76.1. is an example of a military pay summary voucher.

76.6. Voucher Balancing. The Voucher Balancing/Merged Accountability and Fund Reporting (MAFR)
Reconciliation Report (UH099C0809) is the basic tool provided the DAOs to assist in fulfilling their
responsibility for proper and timely posting of payment and collection transactions. The voucher balanc-
ing report is available, by ADSN, on SAR at SAR4, mode JFAMAFR. Also, the UH099C0809 provides
a comparison of payments and collections processed through DJMS to monthly amount for budget pro-
gram 510 or 530 as reported through the MAFR system. This comparison provides an accounting for
payments and collections reported under two independent systems.

76.7. UH099C0809 Report. Voucher Balancing/MAFR Reconciliation Report is shown in Figure 76.5.
Review to determine the status of payments and collections input to DJMS. The UH099C0809 is printed
by accounting month (all vouchers for a month are printed together showing sections I, II, and III). The
voucher balancing report is available, by ADSN, on SAR at SAR4, mode JFAMAFR.
   76.7.1. Section I, Voucher Data, shows all payment and collection input to DJMS. Each total transac-
   tion (PZ, C9, or PU) creates a line item on the UH099C0809 and is assigned a positive value unless
   the transaction is a cancel or correct. Since voucher balancing is accomplished by clearing account, a
   voucher could have a total transaction and details for 510 and another line for 530 with a separate total
   transaction and details. This information for a total transaction is printed: voucher date, voucher
   number, clearing account, voucher amount, FORMAT-ID, action indicator, update number (processed
   or rejected), and input ADSN. The detail transactions with the same voucher date, voucher number,
   and clearing account are shown with the total transaction. The detail transactions are assigned an
   opposite value. If a voucher has a difference of zero, the voucher is in balance. A voucher is printed
   once showing all detail transactions that caused the voucher to be in balance. All rejected and recy-
   cled transactions are printed below the difference amount with the reject or recycle code. The latest
   rejected and recycled transactions continue to be shown on the UH099C0809 until the voucher comes
   into balance. Out of balance voucher is indicated with *. Once a voucher comes into balance, the
   UH099C0809 continues to show the voucher as a one-line entry (the total card) until DJMS totals
   equal MAFR. A FORMAT-ID YX23 transaction may appear as a processed detail transaction with an
   input source of 3860. This is a DFAS-DE voucher-balancing unique transaction input by DFAS-DE/
   FJF to balance a voucher for a payment made but not posted to an MMPA. This detail transaction can-
   not be posted because there is no longer an MMPA on the DJMS file.
   76.7.2. Section II, Reconciliation of DJMS and MAFR, shows the total reported by clearing account
   through MAFR compared to the total (PZ, C9, or PU) successfully processed through DJMS. The
   sum of the successfully processed total records shown in section I should equal the total processed
   DJMS shown in section II. Section II is retained and printed until section I comes into balance. PZ05,
   PZ06, C905, C906, PU65, and PZ95 transactions automatically update the DJMS total as shown in
   section II. The MAFR amount is net (payments less collections) of all payments and collections
   reported through MAFR. To determine the individual vouchers making up the MAFR total, review
   the daily appropriation summary ledger. PCN SH069-J03 (JUMPS/MAFR Reconciliation List) must
   be furnished to DFAS-DE/FJF so DFAS-DE/FJ can assist the bases with voucher balancing, if needed.
   76.7.3. Section III, Adjustments to MAFR, shows all YX05 transactions input by DFAS-JGM/DE
   (the YX05 is an adjustment to the MAFR amount shown in section II). DFAS-JGM/DE is the only
   source of input for the YX05. The YX05 is input based upon supporting documentation including OF
1180                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   1017G, Journal Voucher, SF 1081, Voucher and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits, etc., which has
   been processed through MAFR.
   76.7.4. Section IV, Summary, is broken down into three parts:
       76.7.4.1. Part I, Out-of-Balance Vouchers, provides an aging of out-of-balance vouchers. The
       aging is broken down to show the number of days a voucher has been out of balance as follows:
       future, 0-7, 8-15, 16-30, subtotal, 31-60 days, over 60 days, total. Based on the date of the
       out-of-balance vouchers, all out-of-balance vouchers would be shown.
       76.7.4.2. Part II, Current Period in Balance, provides the FSO with a count of the number of
       vouchers that came into balance for the period covered by the UH099C0809 regardless of the
       voucher date.
       76.7.4.3. Part III, MAFR/JUMPS Reconciliation, provides a recap of section II by year and month
       and clearing account as shown in section II. The MAFR amount, total voucher amount, and dif-
       ference amount are included to provide the reader a quick overview.

76.8. Daily DJMS/MAFR Reconciliation. The FSO makes sure that the appropriation being cited and
reported through MAFR agrees with the appropriation reported and processed through DJMS. If a dis-
crepancy is discovered before the end of the accounting month, the correction can easily be made regard-
less of the system (DJMS or MAFR) being corrected. If the discrepancy is discovered after the
accounting month has been closed, it becomes a more complicated correction procedure (for corrections
to MAFR, see paragraph 76.12., and for corrections to DJMS see below). After the day's business has
been concluded and the vouchers have been processed through MAFR, Accounts Control receives a daily
appropriation summary ledger which includes the day's activity for each appropriation or budget program
by voucher number and date. Since now only 510 and 530 are being reconciled through voucher balanc-
ing, Quality Examination (QE) should ask Accounts Control for a copy of the daily appropriation sum-
mary ledger (the 510 and 530 portion only). QE reviews this product and compares it to the total
transaction being sent to DFAS-DE as shown on the DROT. If any discrepancy is identified, it is cor-
rected in the next update.

76.9. Reconciling the UH099C0809 Report:
   76.9.1. The products used to reconcile the UH099C0809 are:
       76.9.1.1. Daily Register of Transactions (DROT)
       76.9.1.2. Daily Transaction Record (MP-19-100).
       76.9.1.3. SF 1081
       76.9.1.4. JUMPS/MAFR reconciliation list (PCN SH-069-J03).
   76.9.2. Daily upon receipt, the DAO/FSO should review and reconcile the UH099C0809 for any
   out-of-balance vouchers. It is essential that the DAO/FSO account for the cause of the out-of-balance.
   The DAO/FSO has to reconcile current month as well as prior accounting year and month. In some
   cases, the FSO will take no action (PQ posting as NQ) but the responsibility to reconcile still exists.
   76.9.3. Review section II of the UH099C0809 and determine if each clearing account for the year and
   month is in balance (DJMS total equals MAFR). If section II is in balance, proceed to section I. If
   not, determine the cause of the out-of-balance.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               1181


       76.9.3.1. First, if the daily MAFR to DJMS reconciliation has been made, the cause of the
       out-of-balance should be easily determined.
       76.9.3.2. Any unprocessed voucher (either unreported or rejected from base level) should have
       been identified and follow-up action taken.
       76.9.3.3. At month end, if the daily MAFR to DJMS reconciliation has not been accomplished,
       compare the vouchers processed through DJMS as shown in section I to the vouchers shown on
       the monthly JUMPS/RECON list (PCN SH-069-J03).
       76.9.3.4. Reconciling the UH099C0809 report requires researching any differences in section II.
       (See 76.9.4. below.)
   76.9.4. Review section I of the UH099C0809 report to identify any out-of balance vouchers. Exam-
   ine the different amounts shown below each listed voucher. If a voucher is in balance, the amount of
   difference will be zero (FORMAT-ID PZ for total and PC, PK, PA, PQ, PM, etc., for detail).
       76.9.4.1. If the difference is positive, the processed total exceeds the processed detail. Review the
       rejects and recycles to determine if any non-posted detail transactions can be accounted for on the
       UH099C0809 reports.
           76.9.4.1.1. If the detail transaction cannot be located, review the DTR for any rejected trans-
           action.
           76.9.4.1.2. If the reject cannot be found, review the DROT to make sure that the detail trans-
           actions were processed.
           76.9.4.1.3. If transaction is rejected or not submitted, re-input the detail transaction through
           JDC.
       76.9.4.2. If the difference amount is negative for a payment voucher, the total card is not as large
       as the detail transactions posting against that voucher. Review the DTR for rejected total transac-
       tion, (total transactions are assigned a SSN of 999999999 for sorting purposes on the DTR). Next,
       review the DROT to make sure that the total card was transmitted to DFAS-DE.
           76.9.4.2.1. If a total transaction has not been submitted or has rejected, re-input the total trans-
           action (processing a PZ06 or C906 to cancel the original PZ03 or C903).
           76.9.4.2.2. If the original PZ03 or C903 had an erroneous voucher number, voucher date, or
           amount, input a PZ05 or C905 to correct the original input.

76.10. FA0809D Report, Members with Uncleared NQ and PX Entries. (See Figure 76.6.) This
report is produced twice a month before the end of month. Data in this report is in SSN sequence within
servicing ADSN. It shows the current status of recycling PQ transactions (NQ memo entries) and delin-
quent pay authorizations (PX entries). PX entries are created when a pay authorization remains open after
performing end-of-month restructure, regardless of the length of time the authorization has been open on
the MMPA. Clearing the PX or NQ entries requires careful research and analysis. Review the MMPA,
FA0809D report, payment voucher, and any other documents that may help in clearing discrepancies (see
Chapter 52 and Chapter 53 for description of NQ, N7, NN memo entries). Follow the procedures
below. If additional guidance is required, contact DFAS-PMJSAB/DE. This report is found on JFAREG
on SAR4.
   76.10.1. PX entry present and:
1182                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       76.10.1.1. payment was made but not reported. Report payment transaction.
       76.10.1.2. payment was made and reported with erroneous FORMAT-ID (for example, payment
       was reported as PQ and should have been PL). Cancel payment reported with erroneous FOR-
       MAT-ID and report correct payment. Exception: If erroneous FORMAT-ID was PL or PM, do not
       attempt to cancel. When a PL or PM payment transaction is received and no PL or PM authoriza-
       tion is present, these transactions recycle and cannot be canceled. Report correct payment and
       contact DFAS-PMJSAB/DE to delete erroneous payment from recycle.
       76.10.1.3. payment was not made, member did separate, and final separation has processed
       (MMPA fixed status is V). DFAS-DE will settle member's account. Make sure DFAS-DE is
       informed immediately of any items that may affect final settlement. This completes action neces-
       sary by FSO. Open PX will remain on MMPA and FA0809D report until out of IAS.
       76.10.1.4. payment was not made and member has not separated. Determine if member is due
       payment. If so, either make payment and report transaction or release authorization into next reg-
       ular payment by processing a PQ26 transaction. If member is not due payment, take necessary
       action to have MMPA corrected (contact MPF, DFAS-DE, etc.). Erroneous entitlements generated
       from reenlistment or separation require DFAS-DE action.
       76.10.1.5. member has departed PCS. If payment was made but not reported, report payment
       transaction. If payment was not made, contact member's new station, furnish all available facts,
       and request they clear delinquent authorization by following above procedures.
   76.10.2. NQ entry present and:
       76.10.2.1. payment was incorrectly reported (possible erroneous FORMAT-ID, member did not
       reenlist or separate, etc.). Process PQ06 to cancel payment and delete NQ entry, then report cor-
       rect payment transaction.
       76.10.2.2. payment was correctly reported. Determine status of reenlistment, extension, or sepa-
       ration transaction.
          76.10.2.2.1. If reenlistment, extension, or separation transaction was not input or has rejected
          to the MPF (NN entry on MMPA with output control code of E), contact MPF and ensure
          transaction is input and/or rejects are cleared.
          76.10.2.2.2. If reenlistment, extension, separation transaction has recycled (N7 entry on
          MMPA), or has rejected to DFAS-DE (NN entry on MMPA with output control code of N),
          action will be taken by DFAS-PMJ/DE.
       76.10.2.3. reenlistment, extension, or separation transaction was canceled.
          76.10.2.3.1. If you have canceled the check that was issued for the PQ authorization, process
          a PQ06 transaction to remove NQ entry. Report canceled PQ payment as a PK transaction,
          and report check cancellation transaction (C1) against the PK transaction.
          76.10.2.3.2. If the member erroneously received payment, process PQ06 transaction to
          remove NQ entry and report payment as a PK transaction. A debt will be created for the over-
          payment. Contact the member to return money and process cash collection (C2) against the
          debt.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1183


76.11. DFAS-DE Processing. The processing logic of some of the systems programs at DFAS-DE
causes some transactions to reject or post as memorandum entries at DFAS-DE. Memorandum entries
(except NQs) are not passed to voucher balancing and therefore are not shown on the UH099C0809.
   76.11.1. When a PQ03 is reported to DFAS-DE without an authorization on the MMPA, the PQ03
   posts as an NQ memo entry unless the MMPA is in a V status. It appears in section 8 of the DTR as a
   recycle. It also appears on the UH099C0809 as a recycle with recycle code RCA. However, the PZ03
   processes and voucher balancing receives the PZ without any posted detail transaction. Thus an
   out-of-balance voucher is created. When the authorization is generated, the open PQ authorization
   appears on the MMPA. The NQ is released and closes the open PQ. This automatic processing of the
   PQ is shown in section IV of the DTR and as a processed transaction on the UH099C0809. If the
   MMPA is in V status, the PQ posts as a PK and voucher balancing receives the PK. (See Chapter 52
   and Chapter 53 for separation and reenlistment processing.)
   76.11.2. TLA payments are not reconciled in voucher balancing since these payments cite clearing
   account 515 or 535. However, these payments do appear on the MMPA as FID 79 or an N6 memo
   entry.
   76.11.3. If a SSN or name as shown on a payment does not match any record on DJMS, the payment
   is automatically rejected to the input source with the exception of advance pay transactions (PAs)
   which will recycle under certain circumstances. Also, program logic may prohibit the posting of a
   payment. In this case, a DFAS-DE unique payment transaction has to be used and the FSO can review
   section 6 of the DTR for the processed transaction along with an explanation provided in the trailer
   record identified by FORMAT-ID N9. This payment posting would also appear on the UH099C0809
   as a processed transaction with an input source of 38XX.
   76.11.4. Clothing maintenance allowance, initial (CMAI), is shown on the MMPA as N3 (memo
   entry). Clothing is charged to budget projects 516 and 536 and therefore is not considered in voucher
   balancing.
   76.11.5. Request DFAS-DE's assistance when processing a collection transaction outside immediate
   access storage (IAS). (See Chapter 2).

76.12. Adjustment to MAFR (Current FY or Prior FY). When an adjustment to MAFR is required,
use an SF 1081, voucher and schedule of withdrawals and credits, to make the adjustment. Use the SF
1081 even when correcting prior period report data. The SF 1081 would still be included in applicable
records as a current month transaction. Examples of problems that require a MAFR adjustment include:
   76.12.1. When a budget program or budget project is erroneously cited in MAFR;
   76.12.2. The voucher contains errors in appropriation and limitation (and subsidiary codes if both are
   in error);
   76.12.3. A change is required to FY for annual appropriation refunds to reimbursements and vice
   versa.
   76.12.4. To reconcile section II of the UH099C0809, forward to DFAS-ADREM/DE all copies of
   adjustment voucher input to MAFR citing P510 or P530, to ensure proper reconciliation.
   76.12.5. Copies of adjustment vouchers to correct fiscal year only are not required by
   DFAS-ADREM/DE. In these cases, the correction need only be processed through MAFR.
1184                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


76.13. Quality Assurance (QA). The chief of military pay reviews the UH099C0809 monthly to deter-
mine that voucher balancing is being accomplished currently. Section IV, Part III, provides the year and
month DJMS voucher totals do not equal MAFR totals. The FSO will be advised of any year and month
out-of-balance older than current month, less 3 months.

76.14. Special Operating Procedures. If a base does not have a normal base processing framework,
local procedures will have to be developed. However, the local procedures must provide for daily recon-
ciliation and proper accounting of any out-of-balance vouchers as in section I or out-of-balance older than
current month, less 3 months.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                        1185


Figure 76.1. DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher.
1186                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 76.2. SF 1081, Voucher and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               1187


Figure 76.3. SF 1081, Voucher and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits.
1188                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 76.4. OF 1017-G, Journal Voucher.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                        1189


Figure 76.5. DJMS Voucher Balancing/MAFR Reconciliation Report.
1190                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 76.6. Members With Uncleared NQ and PX Entries.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          1191


Figure 76.7. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Collection Voucher Control Total.
1192   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       1193


Figure 76.8. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payment Voucher Control Total.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0C903/06 OR AC905 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


     20-25      YYMMDD OF VOUCHER DATE


       26       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO. OTHERWISE, BLANK


     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-50      VOUCHER TOTAL AMOUNT--DOLLARS AND CENTS TOTAL OF 510 AND
                530 VOUCHER AMOUNT


     59-61      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


                NOTE:
                A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
                CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
                THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
1194                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 76.9.


 CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


        1-5    0PZ03/06 OR APZ05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


       20-25   YYMMDD OF VOUCHER DATE


        26     GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
               A--AIR FORCE
               B—ARMY
               C—NAVY
               D—MARINES
               G--COAST GUARD
               M--STATE DEPARTMENT


       27-30   ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
               FROM INPUT FSO. OTHERWISE BLANK


       32-39   PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


       40-50   VOUCHER TOTAL AMOUNT--DOLLARS AND CENTS TOTAL OF 510 AND
               530 VOUCHER AMOUNT


       55-58   PAYROLL NUMBER


       59-61   CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
               510—OFFICER
               530—ENLISTED


               NOTE:
               A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
               CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
               THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1195


                                              Chapter 77

                                        CROSS-DISBURSING

77.1. Description. Military pay will occasionally provide limited pay service to members of other Ser-
vices. The military pay office has the final approval authority over all payments made to members of
another Service. When these payments are made, they are reported to the member's main payroll process-
ing site.

77.2. Substantiating Documents. Retain supporting documents which can verify member's name, SSN
and branch of service with a copy of disbursement voucher. Retained copies to include travel orders, LES
and other documents if necessary. Annotate the member's ID number on the retained copy of the travel
order or leave papers.
   77.2.1. AF Form 265, AFO Payment Authorization, is used to authorize payment to members when
   the reporting is to be accomplished through JDC.
   77.2.2. AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal, is used to list and mail documents to parent Service
   central site. Prepare an original and two copies numbered consecutively using numbering system pre-
   scribed in paragraph 77.4. Precede this number with parent Service's abbreviation (A-Army, C-Coast
   Guard or M-Marine Corps). Insert each support document (and attachments) transmitted in document
   data part of form identified by form number, document title, original or copy, and document identifi-
   cation number.
   77.2.3. DD Form 1351-6, Multiple Payments List, is used to process several payments of a single
   type for a single Service. Since type of payment made is noted in block 6 (purpose) on military pay
   voucher, do not use type block on money list. Show Service disbursed for in "Acty block". Other
   blocks on the form are self-explanatory.
   77.2.4. DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher, is used to process single payments. Show member's
   name, SSN, etc. in open block on form and obtain signature of payee in block 19 for single payments.
   Multiple payments contain this data on the money list; show "Transient Payments" in open block on
   form. Insert appropriation and program designated by parent Service for type of payment covered in
   the appropriation block. Show total amount covered by this voucher or supporting money lists in the
   amount block. Use other blocks of this form as required; blocks are self-explanatory.
   77.2.5. DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, is used to charge the pay accounts of members
   who are either absentees, deserters or escaped military prisoners for the cost the DAO incurred in pro-
   viding transportation or meals to the member.
   77.2.6. DD Form 397, Claim Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment, is used to autho-
   rize payment to designated beneficiaries of deceased members. Support payment with message from
   service concerned. When authorization to pay is received by phone, obtain written confirmation.
   Immediately after payment, send a paid copy of DD Form 397 to parent service's central site.
   77.2.7. DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay and Allowances, is used to
   authorize emergency payments to dependents. Dependents ordered to evacuate may obtain emer-
   gency payments by presenting original DD Form 1337 and proper identification to any DAO. Total
   amount designated in authorization are payable in a lump sum or in installments at option of depen-
1196                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   dent. Where maximum amount or final installment is paid, attach form to duplicate voucher and sub-
   mit to parent Service's central site.
   77.2.8. SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, is used to authorize
   Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA) payments to members of another Service. Use statements, cer-
   tificates or forms normally required by paying Service to substantiate payments. Submit duplicate SF
   1034 voucher to parent Service's central site.

77.3. Transient Payments. DAOs may make casual payments for pay and allowances to active duty
members of other Services. Any member in transit between duty stations, temporary duty assignment or
on leave status may request a casual payment. Before an active duty member is paid, identification, status
and entitlement must be established, since the FSO will be the authorizing official. Payment documents
should be processed and transmitted according to the following Service's specific instructions. For parent
Service central site mailing and message addresses, see paragraph 77.5.
   77.3.1. Army:
       77.3.1.1. FSOs may make casual payments to a soldier when the soldier's identity, entitlement and
       status so warrant. FSO should base soldier's entitlement on his or her current Leave and Earnings
       Statement (DFAS Form 702). Use the soldier's ID card to establish the member's identity. You
       should request certain documents to determine if a soldier is in a good duty status (e.g., leave,
       TDY or PCS in-transit). For example, a soldier who is on:
           77.3.1.1.1. Authorized leave will have a DA Form 31, Request and Authority for Leave, cov-
           ering his or her absence from duty station;
           77.3.1.1.2. TDY will have a DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of
           DoD Personnel, covering his or her authorized TDY and any authorized leave in conjunction
           with that TDY; or
           77.3.1.1.3. Leave in conjunction with a PCS will have both a DA Form 31 and orders indicat-
           ing a PCS from one station to another.
       77.3.1.2. If you believe that the soldier's documents have been altered, his or her actions appear to
       be suspicious, or documentation is incomplete, you should call DFAS-IN at DSN 699-2800 to ver-
       ify information. DFAS-IN cannot authorize payment, but they can furnish information which you
       might use in making the decision. Once payment is made, you should process the documents
       according to procedures in paragraph 77.4.1.
       77.3.1.3. FSOs should not make casual payments to an Army Reservist or National Guard mem-
       ber unless he or she is on extended active duty (over 60 days). FSOs may make casual payments
       to soldiers on extended active duty when the soldier's identity, entitlement and status so warrant
       (see paragraph 77.3.1.1. above for documentation requirements).
   77.3.2. Coast Guard:
       77.3.2.1. Documentation. Coast Guard members on active duty who request a casual payment
       must present a military ID card and orders or leave form. In addition members should have a copy
       of their latest Leave and Earnings Statement (CG-5209) that shows monthly entitlements. If there
       is any question about the amount to pay the member, FSO should contact the Coast Guard Pay and
       Personnel Center in Topeka, Kansas for assistance at commercial (913) 295-2910. DD Form
       1351-6 or DD Form 117 should be prepared according to the instructions in paragraph 77.2.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1197


     77.3.2.2. Advance Copies of Payments. Daily, FSOs should mail two copies, labeled "advance
     copies" of the DD Form 1351-6 or DD Form 117 and substantiating documents to the Command-
     ing Officer (OGRQ), US Coast Guard Finance Center, 1430 A Kristina Way, Chesapeake, VA
     23326.
     77.3.2.3. Reporting Payments. Weekly, DAOs should mail all the disbursement vouchers and
     substantiating documents to the Topeka Service Center (paragraph 77.5.) for processing.
  77.3.3. Marine Corps:
     77.3.3.1. Marine Corps personnel on active duty or extended active duty (tours in excess of 30
     days) who request a casual payment must present a military ID card and orders or leave form. If
     there is any question about the amount to pay the member, FSO should contact DFAS-KC (JEA)
     for assistance at DSN 465-7652 or commercial (816) 926-7652. Cross-disbursing payments
     should be reported daily to DFAS-KC (EAX) via message or telefax and should include member's
     name, social security number, amount of payment, payroll number and date of payment (telefax
     number: DSN 465-5348 or commercial (816) 926-1372 or (816) 926-5348.) Copies of the trans-
     mittal document, disbursement voucher and substantiating documents should be mailed monthly
     to DFAS-KC (see 77.5.).
     77.3.3.2. Partial payments to individual Marine Corps Reservists assigned to active duty for a
     period of 12 through 30 days will be provided only when Marine Corps disbursing facilities are
     not available. Before making payment, the FSO must contact DFAS-Kansas City Center (EAX)
     by message or telephone (DSN 465-5264 or 7636; commercial (816) 926-5264 or 7636) to con-
     firm the pay status of the reservist, to ensure that partial payment has not already been made, and
     to be advised of the amount of payment to make. Complete accounting will be shown on the pay-
     ment voucher using the pay appropriation data cited in the member's orders. The DAO will
     endorse the Marine's orders with the amount and date of payment, payroll number (preceded by
     MR), period of active duty for which the payment was made, check number (if applicable), dis-
     bursing station serial number (DSSN) and DAO's signature. Payment documents used for pay-
     ments to Marine Corps Reservists identified in this paragraph will be submitted as indicated in
     paragraph 77.4.1. However, the documents will be submitted to DFAS-KC.
  77.3.4. Navy:
     77.3.4.1. FSOs may make casual payments to sailors when the sailor's identity, entitlement and
     status so warrant. FSO should base sailor's entitlement on his or her current NAVCOMPT Form
     2285, Leave and Earnings Statement (LES). Use the sailor's ID card to establish the sailor's iden-
     tity. Request documents which can be used to verify that a sailor is in a good duty status (e.g.,
     leave, TDY or PCS in-transit.) For example, a sailor who is on:
        77.3.4.1.1. Authorized leave will have a NAVCOMPT Form 3065, Leave Request/Authoriza-
        tion, covering his or her period of absence from duty station;
        77.3.4.1.2. TDY will have a NAVCOMPT Form 2285, Request and Authorization for TDY
        Travel of Navy Personnel; or
        77.3.4.1.3. Leave in conjunction with a PCS will have a NAVCOMPT 3071, Personnel Finan-
        cial Record, which will show a record of payments he or she has received, copies of his or her
        current LES and official orders indicating leave period during the PCS.
1198                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       77.3.4.2. If you believe that the sailor's documents have been altered, his or her actions appear to
       be suspicious, or documentation is incomplete you should call DFAS-CL at DSN 580-5682 to ver-
       ify information. DFAS-CL cannot authorize payment, but they can furnish information which you
       might use in making the decision. Once payment is made, you should process the documents
       according to procedures in paragraph 77.4.2.
       77.3.4.3. Payments to transient Navy personnel made at other than their old or new PDS or TAD/
       TDY stations will be subject to the following limitations:
          77.3.4.3.1. Payment may not exceed accrued pay and allowances.
          77.3.4.3.2. Payment of advance pay and allowances are not authorized.
          77.3.4.3.3. Advance travel payments will be limited to actual transportation cost to the next
          TAD/TDY or permanent duty station.

77.4. FSO Action:
   77.4.1. Reporting Payment Made to Other Than Air Force Members. Several payments of same type
   for another service may be accumulated on a money list and attached to a summary voucher. Other-
   wise make payment on a separate voucher with required supporting document attached.
       77.4.1.1. Weekly, vouchers and supporting documents are to be sent to Quality Examination (QE)
       for their verification with the MAFR report (Transaction For-Others Control Ledger) before mail-
       ing the AF Form 1209 and vouchers. QE must initial and date the AF Form 1209 to verify that the
       money amounts on the vouchers agree with the MAFR report and that the vouchers have been for-
       warded to the central site of the member's service. QE mails AF Form 1209 after verification.
       77.4.1.2. If acknowledgment is not received within 30 days (45 days overseas), prepare a copy of
       unacknowledged transmittal marked "--tracer copy" and send to appropriate central site. Central
       site then notifies FSO that transmittal was received or requests the FSO resubmit transmittal with
       supporting attachments.
       77.4.1.3. After transmittal is acknowledged, attach receipt copy to suspense copy and file based
       on Air Force regulations. If receipt copy is a duplicate AF Form 1209, replace FSO's copy of AF
       Form 1209 with acknowledgment copy.
       77.4.1.4. Copy of voucher is to be mailed to the applicable military service central site address.
       See paragraph 77.5. for addresses.
   77.4.2. Emergency Payments to Members. Under extraordinary conditions other service members
   stranded without funds can be given an emergency payment not to exceed accrued pay and allow-
   ances. Before payment, FSO verifies member's pay and military status by contacting parent Service
   central site or organization to which member is to report for duty. Hospital evacuees in transit may be
   paid reasonable emergency payments without status verification.
   77.4.3. Payroll Numbers. Assign a payroll number to each voucher beginning with "001" until you
   reach "999" before starting over with 001. Precede this number with parent Service's abbreviation
   (A--Army, C--Coast Guard, N--Navy and M--Marine Corps). For example, payment vouchers to
   Marine Corps members would be assigned voucher number M001 and continuing until the payroll
   number reaches M999 before starting over. List each number on transmittal document as required in
   paragraph 77.2. Note: These numbers may vary from those assigned to document transmittal.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                     1199


77.5. Special Provisions:
   77.5.1. Address. Central sites for parent Services are:


Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Indianapolis Center
ATTN: Directorate of Military Pay (DFAS-IN-JFA)
8899 East 56th Street
Indianapolis IN 46249


Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Cleveland Center
1240 East Ninth Street
Code FT
Cleveland OH 44199-2055
Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Kansas City Center
1500 East Bannister Rd
Code AEAP
Kansas City MO 64197-0001
Coast Guard
United States Coast Guard
Military Pay Center
Room 301 Federal Bldg
444 Quincy St SE
Topeka KS 66683
1200                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   77.5.2. Message addresses for other services:


Army
DFAS-INDIANAPOLIS CENTER
DFAS-INDIANAPOLIS CENTER
INDIANAPOLIS IN//JFB-V//


Navy
DFAS-CLEVELAND CENTER
DFAS-CLEVELAND CENTER
CLEVELAND OH//JJSX//


Marine Corps
DFAS-KANSAS CITY CENTER
DFAS-KANSAS CITY CENTER
KANSAS CITY MO//EAX//


Coast Guard
COGARD PPC TOPEKA KS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   1201


  77.5.3. Accounting Classifications. Charge payments of amounts paid to members of other Services
  to these pay appropriations:
                                              ARMY


PAY GROUP                 DESCRIPTION                              APPROPRIATION
 NUMBER



    10       Officers, Army, on full-time active duty   21(*) 2010-01-1100 ZB14M400
                                                         S12120


             Death gratuity payments to beneficiaries of 21(*) 2010-01-1100-6C10000 (EOR 4200)
             Army officers, Warrant officers, nurses, and FSN 012120
             members of the Army Medical Specialist
             Corps


    14       Enlisted members, Army, on full-time       21(*) 2010-01-1100-ZB24M400
             active duty                                 S12120


             Death gratuity payments to beneficiaries of 21(*) 2010-01-1100 6C21000 (EOR 4200)
             Army enlisted personnel.                      FSN 012120


             Death gratuity payments to beneficiaries of 21(*) 2010-01-1100-6C30000 (EOR 4200)
             cadets of the United States Military          FSN 12120
             Academy
1202                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



  PAY     DESCRIPTION          APPROPRIATION        OBJECT TYPE AUTHORIZED COST
GROUP                                               CLASS        ACCOUNTING CODE
                                                                  ACTIVITY
                                                                   (AAA)


    1     Navy Officers on 17(*)1453.221A-11600-0    011    2I     000000    71110
          full-time active         68566
          duty.                   2D-71110


    3     Navy Enlisted on 17(*)1453.222A-12600-0     11    2I     000000    71130
          full-time active         68566
          duty.                   2D-71130


   10     Marine Corps        AA 17(*)1105-.2701     011    2I     000027    71110
          Officers on           117-11691-067443
          full-time active
          duty.                   2I SPLPMT
                                 010SPPT77907
                                      (* FY)


   13     Marine Corps        AA 17(*)1105-.2702     011    2I     000027    71130
          Enlisted on          117-12691-067443
          full-time active
          duty.                    2I SPLPMT
                                 013SPPT77909
                                      (* FY)


          Coast Guard (all)         69X0201


* Insert applicable fiscal year (FY) code.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              1203


Figure 77.1. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO Authorized Payments for Casual Payments.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PC03/06 OR APC05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


      26-       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT
                R--ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK

       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-45      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


     46-48      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


     53-54      RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
1204                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       57-60   PAYROLL NUMBER


        66     RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE


               NOTE:
               A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
               CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
               THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    1205


Figure 77.2. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct FSO-Authorized Partial Pay.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PK03/06 OR APK05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      YYMMDD OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAYMENT VOUCHER


      26-       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT
                R--ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK

       31       OVERRIDE (CENTRAL SITE USE ONLY)


     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-45      AMOUNT PAID TO MEMBER


     46-48      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


     53-54      RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE
1206                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


CHARACTER                             DESCRIPTION
 POSITION


       57-60   PAYROLL NUMBER


        66     RESERVED FOR DFAS-DE USE


               NOTE:
               A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
               CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
               THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       1207


Figure 77.3. Format to Report/Cancel or Correct Payment Voucher Control Total.


 CHARACTER                                    DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0PZ03/06 OR APZ05 (ONE TRAILER RECORD)


     20-25      YYMMDD OF VOUCHER DATE


      26-       GOVERNMENT AGENCY CODE:
                A--AIR FORCE
                B—ARMY
                C—NAVY
                D—MARINES
                G--COAST GUARD
                M--STATE DEPARTMENT
                R--ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE


     27-30      ACCOUNTABLE ADSN--ADSN OF ACCOUNTABLE FSO IF DIFFERENT
                FROM INPUT FSO; OTHERWISE, BLANK


     32-39      PAYMENT VOUCHER NUMBER


     40-50      VOUCHER TOTAL AMOUNT--DOLLARS AND CENTS TOTAL OF 510 AND
                530 VOUCHER AMOUNT


     55-58      PAYROLL NUMBER


     59-61      CLEARING ACCOUNT ID:
                510—OFFICER
                530—ENLISTED


                NOTE:
                A CORRECT (ACTION INDICATOR 05) IS TWO-CARD INPUT WITH THE A
                CARD CONTAINING THE NEW CORRECT DATA. THE 1 CARD CONTAINS
                THE PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED DATA TO BE CORRECTED.
1208                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              Chapter 78

               PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS AND CORRECTIONS OF GRADE

78.1. Description. Grade change transactions are shown on the MMPA as FID MD. AFPC is the only
source of input for these transactions.

78.2. De Facto Promotions (Officer/Enlisted). When a member is promoted erroneously, a revocation
order may state that the member served in a de facto status during the period of the erroneous promotion.
De Facto orders (for personnel reasons) validate any official acts performed by the member in the errone-
ous grade. The FSO will make a determination using the guidelines below, as to whether the member is
entitled to pay and allowances at the higher grade for this period of time before submitting a correction
request to DFAS-DE. A member may retain pay and allowances received as the result of an erroneous
promotion:
   78.2.1. If the member performed the duties of that position in good faith, and under the color of
   authority.
   78.2.2. If the promotion was not statutorily prohibited (for example, a 2Lt may not be promoted to the
   next higher grade until the officer has completed 18 months of service, because of the Defense Officer
   Personnel Management Act (DOPMA)). If the determination cannot be made locally as to entitlement
   to pay and allowances, forward all appeals to DFAS-DE. If the appeal is denied, advise the member
   of his or her right to remission or waiver per Chapter 69.
   78.2.3. XL03 Management Notices. XL03 management notices are sent whenever an MD05 pro-
   cesses. The FSO verifies that all impacted entitlements are properly updated.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1209


                                               Chapter 79

                       EMERGENCY AND DEPLOYMENT PROCEDURES

Section 79A—Emergency Evacuation.

79.1. Description. At times of emergency resulting from natural catastrophe, war, and other disasters,
and during deployment operations, FSOs are often required to make payments to members or their depen-
dents. DFAS-DER 7010-1, provides guidance on designation of support bases to perform accounting and
finance functions during periods of emergency conditions and AFI 10-213 provides guidance on conduct-
ing operations under emergency conditions. Emergency payroll production and other central site proce-
dures under emergency conditions are contained in a DFAS-DE instruction currently being finalized.

79.2. Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   79.2.1. Adult dependent - dependent as defined in the DoDFMR, Volume 7A, glossary of terms,
   except those indicated in 79.2.2. below.
   79.2.2. Minor dependent - child 16 years of age or younger who is dependent upon and lives with the
   member.
   79.2.3. Designated representative for minor dependent - a person eligible for evacuation and named,
   by a member who has one or more minor dependents but no adult dependent, to care for the minor
   dependents during evacuation.

79.3. Substantiating Documents. The following documents are required during evacuations and other
emergency conditions.
   79.3.1. DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay and Allowances - all members
   with dependents must immediately complete DD Form 1337 upon entering an overseas theater (does
   not apply to Alaska or Hawaii). In addition, members in the overseas theater must complete a DD
   Form 1337 upon acquiring a dependent. (See Figure 79.1. and Figure 79.2.)
   79.3.2. DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher, and/or DD Form 1351-4, Voucher or Claim
   for Dependent Travel and Dislocation or Trailer Allowance - completed to receive payment for travel
   and reimbursable expenses if entitled.
   79.3.3. DD Form 115, Military Payroll Money List and/or DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher - used
   by FSO to make evacuation payments.

79.4. Responsibilities:
   79.4.1. Member completes an original copy of DD Form 1337, designating a specific amount of
   emergency payment (up to 2 months' gross basic pay -- deductions not considered) to be paid. If no
   advance is authorized, enter "NONE" in the space provided for amount. Member signs the form.
   Enter the date and signature of designated dependent or representative for minor dependents autho-
   rized to receive emergency payment (see paragraph 79.2.3. above) at time of presentation of DD Form
   1337 to FSO for payment. Give the form to the FSO.
NOTE: DD Form 1337 is also used to designate the individual to whom evacuation allowances, autho-
rized in JFTR, Volume I, chapter 6, may be paid.
1210                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   79.4.2. When an evacuation has been ordered, dependents or member request payment for evacuation
   allowances and complete DD Form 1351-2 and/or DD Form 1351-4, to receive payment for travel and
   reimbursable expenses is entitled.

79.5. FSO Actions. (See Table 79.1.) Make emergency payments in available currency which will be
most advantageous to dependents. For emergency payments to dependents of Army, Navy, Marine Corps,
and Coast Guard personnel, see Chapter 77. Pay dependents of Air Force members:
   79.5.1. Evacuation payment. DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 32, contains authority for the advance
   pay upon evacuation of military dependents. The conditions and amounts payable are contained in
   table 32-1. These advances are repaid per table 32-2. Use DD Form 1337 as the controlling document
   for all evacuation payments. Do not make emergency allowance payments without it. See Table
   79.1. for action to take if DD Form 1337 is lost, stolen, or destroyed. Use DD Form 115 and/or DD
   Form 117 to make payment. Report payment as PA transaction per Figure 35.4. Use DD Form
   1351-4 for payment of per diem for dependents while at safe haven. See DFAS DER 7010-3 for prep-
   aration of DD Form 1351-4.
   79.5.2. Amount of Payments. Pay total amount designated on DD Form 1337 in one lump sum or in
   installments (normally not more than 2). Pay installment requested by dependents or member unless
   prescribed amounts have been established by the major command. Enter payments in the space pro-
   vided on DD Form 1337 and ensure that the total of all installment payments does not exceed total
   amount authorized.
   79.5.3. Disposition of DD Form 1337. See Table 79.2.
   79.5.4. Waiver of Right of Recovery. The FSO, upon receiving a copy of letter, with attachments
   from commander:
       79.5.4.1. Reviews pay transaction data in application and verifies that amounts shown as paid
       agree with the MMPA and DTR data. Determines that amount for which waiver is requested does
       not exceed 1 month's basic pay. If amounts shown are incorrect, note on application and return to
       member's commander for correction.
       79.5.4.2. If appropriate, prepares messages to DFAS-DE/FJPS for their input to suspend recovery
       of not more than 1 month's basic pay advanced as emergency evacuation payment as of date appli-
       cation is received from member's commander. See Chapter 69 for JDC screen.
       79.5.4.3. File in the management file a suspense copy of: 'Application for waiver of recovery of
       $ (amount) under 37 USC 1006(c) filed on (date).'
       79.5.4.4. Endorses application to DFAS-DE stating that amounts shown have been verified with
       DTR.
       79.5.4.5. If member is discharged or released from active duty before receipt of waiver notifica-
       tion from DFASDE, recover amount of emergency advance payments, to the fullest extent possi-
       ble, from amounts due member on separation. This applies except when member immediately
       reenlists. In such cases, suspend recovery action until DFAS-DE reply is received (see Chapter
       53).
   79.5.5. Upon receipt of notification from DFAS-DE:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1211


       79.5.5.1. If application for waiver is approved, annotates the suspense copy: "Waiver of recovery
       under 37 USC, 1006(c) granted by SAF in amount of $, letter dated."
       79.5.5.2. When application for waiver is disapproved, annotates the suspense copy: "Waiver of
       recovery under 37 USC, 1006(c) disapproved by SAF per DFAS-DE letter dated."
       79.5.5.3. Advises member of SAF action and files copy of reply with suspense copy. Input trans-
       actions are not required.

79.6. Special Provisions:
   79.6.1. Waiver of Right of Recovery:
       79.6.1.1. Description. The Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) may waive recovery of not more than
       1 months' basic pay advanced to member's dependents under 37 USC 1006(c). Request submitted
       by members for waiver under this authority are adjudicated on a case-by-case basis. Where evac-
       uation and dislocation allowances are paid as a result of emergency evacuation, waiver application
       must indicate that these allowances were insufficient to pay unusual expenses of the sudden evac-
       uation. This includes reasonable expenses incurred for rental of furniture and an automobile as a
       result of delayed arrival of these items. Usually, purchase of these items as a result of evacuation
       is not regarded as sufficient reason for waiver of the 1 month's advance pay, since the individual
       has permanent possession and use of them. Unusual circumstances where the evacuation causes
       financial hardship should be submitted if evidence indicates that recovery of full amount advanced
       is contrary to equity and good conscience under 37 USC 1006(c).
       79.6.1.2. Killed or missing in action. When a member is killed or reported missing in action inci-
       dent to the emergency condition which caused the ordered evacuation of dependents, consider
       waiver of recovery of not more than 1 month's basic pay, advanced as an emergency allowance,
       without request.
       79.6.1.3. Limitation. Only 1 month's basic pay, at the rate for the member's pay grade at the time
       the emergency evacuation payment was authorized, or the unpaid balance may be waived. Any
       amount withheld from the member's pay, for application against the advance of pay, is considered
       recovered.
       79.6.1.4. Notification of Rights. Member's servicing FSO advises member as soon as possible
       after such AFO makes payment or receives notification from DFAS-DE that payment was made
       by another FSO. Application for waiver may be initiated by the member or the member's com-
       mander.
       79.6.1.5. Remission. Disapproval of an enlisted member's request for waiver does not affect the
       member's right to apply for remission under the provisions of Chapter 69.
   79.6.2. Application of Waiver of Recovery:
       79.6.2.1. Preparation, documentation, and submission. Application, prepared by member or
       member's commander, is in letter form and must include:
          79.6.2.1.1. Member's name, grade, and SSN.
          79.6.2.1.2. Total amount advanced for emergency evacuation purposes, amount previously
          recovered, and amount for which the waiver is requested (not to exceed 1 month's basic pay to
          which the member was entitled at the time of the advance).
1212                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


          79.6.2.1.3. Date of expiration of member's current enlistment, date of release from active duty,
          or anticipated date of retirement.
          79.6.2.1.4. Number of dependents and location at time of evacuation order.
          79.6.2.1.5. Date evacuated and location to which dependents were evacuated.
          79.6.2.1.6. Amount of evacuation allowance paid and inclusive period.
          79.6.2.1.7. Amount of dislocation allowance paid.
          79.6.2.1.8. Identification of extraordinary expenses connected with the evacuation. Include
          amounts spent and periods in which expenses were incurred:
              79.6.2.1.8.1. Education of children.
              79.6.2.1.8.2. Rent or lodging.
              79.6.2.1.8.3. Utilities.
              79.6.2.1.8.4. Food.
              79.6.2.1.8.5. Car (gas, oil).
              79.6.2.1.8.6. Other transportation.
              79.6.2.1.8.7. Laundry and dry cleaning.
              79.6.2.1.8.8. Expenses as a result of non-availability of service facilities (doctor, dentist,
              hospital, etc.).
              79.6.2.1.8.9. Loss of personal or private property for which member was not otherwise
              compensated.
              79.6.2.1.8.10. Expenses of purchasing household essentials such as cooking utensils or
              bedding.
              79.6.2.1.8.11. Itemization and amounts expended for purchase of additional clothing as a
              result of the evacuation.
              79.6.2.1.8.12. Expenses for rental of furniture or an automobile as a result of delayed
              arrival of these items.
              79.6.2.1.8.13. Any other expenses caused by the unusual circumstances of this evacuation.
          79.6.2.1.9. A financial statement attached to application for waiver. Prepare financial state-
          ment to show normal living expenses connected with maintenance of member's household for
          period immediately before the evacuation. Use format in Chapter 73.

79.7. DFAS-DE Actions. Upon receipt of application for waiver of right of recovery, DFAS-DE:
   79.7.1. evaluates application for waiver and sends to SAF for final action;
   79.7.2. prepares input to delete debt, if waived;
   79.7.3. resumes collection action if not waived;
   79.7.4. notifies member's servicing FSO.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1213


Section 79B—Deployment.

79.8. Deployment Briefing. The servicing FSO must brief all members on alert for deployment duty,
and all potential deployment personnel, on deployment procedures (commanders of GSUs perform this
function for their personnel).
   79.8.1. Advise members that they should have a copy of their latest LES with them at the time of the
   briefing, processing through the FSO, and the period of deployment.
   79.8.2. Inform members that US Treasury checks will not be forwarded to an emergency area but that
   casual or partial payments may be available.
   79.8.3. Advise members to provide adequate support for their dependents while on deployment. Sup-
   port can be achieved in one of these ways:
      79.8.3.1. Direct deposit of regular mid-month and end-of-month pay to a joint account. Members
      should be cautioned about difficulty in cashing personal checks in foreign countries at other than
      US Government installations.
      79.8.3.2. Dependent support allotment.
      79.8.3.3. Class X allotment where time is too short to start normal dependent support allotment.

79.9. Payments Before or During Deployment:
   79.9.1. Advance Travel. Members may elect to receive advance per diem in amounts authorized per
   procedures and conditions prescribed by major commands and governed by JFTR, Volume I, and
   DFAS-DER 7010-3.
   79.9.2. Advance Pay. Personnel may be authorized to receive an advance in an amount not to exceed
   3 months' basic pay and allowances, less deductions. Payments are to be made on request only, with
   no blanket payments authorized. When regular payment procedures do not meet immediate need of
   member, use casual, partial, and advance pay procedures as appropriate. See DoDFMR, Volume 7A,
   chapter 32, for conditions under which payments can be made and the repayment requirements for
   advances. Report payments to DFAS-DE as soon as possible. FSOs ensure that partial payments do
   not exceed net entitlements to avoid quasi-advances being established on member's MMPA. See
   Chapter 35 for processing requirements.
   79.9.3. Partial or Casual Payments. When making partial or casual payments to local payees, the
   deployed disbursing agent will pay the lesser of the following:
      79.9.3.1. The maximum amount authorized by the area or exercise commanders.
      79.9.3.2. For local payees with their latest LESs or where agents have inquiry capability, an
      amount not greater than that accrued through date of payment. Where no inquiry capability exists,
      question the member about any recent changes which may not be reflected on the LES.
      79.9.3.3. For local payees without their LESs where no inquiry capability exists, an amount not to
      exceed 75 percent of the member's base pay prorated on a daily basis. Question the member about
      recent changes. Reduce the 75 percent by any new deductions.

79.10. FSO Actions:
1214                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   79.10.1. Servicing FSO:
       79.10.1.1. Applies TDY procedures except all management files are maintained by the servicing
       FSO. Only in extenuating circumstances, or when command of host base and command of TDY
       base mutually agree that it will be advantageous for management files to be administered by FSO
       servicing the deployed unit, will files be forwarded (hand-carried by the unit commander) to the
       TDY station.
       79.10.1.2. When management files are kept by the servicing FSO, give any pay-affecting docu-
       ments, originating at TDY base, to the designated unit commander after the transaction is pro-
       cessed. The unit commander is required to maintain these documents in a file. When the
       deployed unit returns to home station, the unit commander gives this file to the base FSO for filing
       of appropriate documents.
       79.10.1.3. For members electing to be paid by TDY FSO:
          79.10.1.3.1. Identifies all members making this election.
          79.10.1.3.2. Processes a start TDY ADSN (LD01) and change paying ADSN (LB04) transac-
          tion. (See Chapter 42.)
          79.10.1.3.3. Processes an LD04 and an LB04 transaction when member returns from TDY.
          This action causes payment to revert to the home station.
   79.10.2. TDY FSO:
       79.10.2.1. Makes necessary changes in allotment amounts during period of deployment. If a
       change is warranted because of a change in normal pay or compelling personal reasons, TDY sta-
       tion prepares DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop, or Change an Allotment, and processes
       the change. Provide a copy of the allotment forms to the unit commander. See Chapter 57 for
       DD Form 2558 preparation instructions.
       79.10.2.2. Processes transactions to start and stop entitlements accruing to member at TDY sta-
       tion. When TDY ADSN is established on member's MMPA (by an LD04 transaction input by
       home station) any later TDY FSO to which member is diverted processes an LD04 transaction to
       change TDY ADSN. See Attachment 18 for Format-IDs allowable for processing by TDY FSO.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              1215


Figure 79.1. DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay and Allowance.
1216                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Figure 79.2. Instructions for Use of DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay
and Allowance.

     INSTRUCTIONS TO DESIGNATED DEPENDENT OR REPRESENTATIVE FOR USE
       OF DD FORM 1337 (AUTHORIZATION/DESIGNATION FOR EMERGENCY PAY
                              AND ALLOWANCE)

        1. The Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay and Allowance is a means of providing
funds direct to you in the event of an emergency evacuation. It is an important document and should be
kept at all times with your passport and other important papers.

        2. To obtain payment of any of the evacuation allowances on this DD Form 1337, present it,
together with proper identification, to any military disbursing officer, either overseas or in the United
States.

        3. Payment of the amount of base pay (if any) authorized in this DD Form 1337 as an advance of
pay may be obtained in installments (normally not more than two) or in one lump sum, as you request.
The total amount of this base pay cannot exceed the amount designated by your sponsoring member. The
advance of pay is not a gratuity and will be deducted in full from the sponsoring member's pay unless the
Secretary of the Service concerned waives recovery of 1 month's portion when the recovery of the full
amount would work a hardship, would be against equity and good conscience, or against the public inter-
est. A sponsor who wishes to request a waiver of recovery of 1 month's basic pay should consult the com-
manding officer. If the sponsor does not wish to authorize an advance of basic pay, sponsor inserts NONE
in the space provided for the amount - $______________________.

        4. If you have been receiving a military allotment of pay, and your evacuation is temporary to a
safe haven location, your allotment checks will be forwarded to you at the safe haven area. If you have
been evacuated to a designated place, as specified by your sponsor, at a location in the United States
(including Alaska and Hawaii) or a territory or possession of the United States, it is YOUR RESPONSI-
BILITY to forward your new address immediately to the office which issues your allotment checks. This
will ensure prompt receipt of future checks.

        5. If DD Form 1337 is lost before the evacuation, you or your sponsor must report the loss, theft,
or destruction immediately to the commander or personnel officer, and a new DD Form 1337 will be
issued to you.

        6. If you lost the DD Form 1337 during evacuation, report the loss, theft, or destruction to the
military disbursing officer from whom you request payment. Be prepared to state the circumstances of
the loss, the amount of advance pay authorized in the DD Form 1337, and the amount of any previous
payments you have received of each type.

                                THIS IS AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT
                                  KEEP IT WITH YOUR PASSPORT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              1217


Table 79.1. Preparation and Correction of DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for
Emergency Pay and Allowances.
                          A                                               B
R
U
L
E     When                                       the FSO
    1 DD Form 1137 is initially prepared         ensures that member has prepared and signed the
                                                 form correctly (see note 4); certifies original;
                                                 delivers original to member or, if member is
                                                 absent, to dependent named together with a
                                                 locally reproduced copy of instructions for use
                                                 of DD Form 1337 (figure 15-2).
    2 Amount designated is more than             follows procedure in rule 1.
      maximum allowed
    3 a member is reassigned to a new overseas   obtains original DD Form 1337 from member or
      station where dependents are authorized    dependent and enters new duty station in
      to accompany member and initial phase is   appropriate block, returns original to member or
      in effect                                  dependent (see note 1).
    4 member is reassigned as in rule 3 except   obtains original DD Form 1337 from member or
      initial phase is not in effect             dependent; writes "Canceled" across face of
                                                 form (see note 1)
    5 member is reassigned to another overseas obtains original DD Form 1337 from dependent
      activity (restricted area) where         before departure; writes "Canceled" across face
      dependents are not permitted to travel   of the form; and forwards canceled original to
                                               FSO at member's new duty station (see note 2).
    6 member is reassigned to United States or obtains original DD Form 1337 from member or
      dependents return to United States under dependent, before dependent's departure; writes
      provisions of JTR, chapter 7, part C     "Canceled" across the face of form.
    7 member completes new DD Form 1337 to follows procedure in rule 1, and cancels old
      change designation (See note 3)      forms per rule 4.
    8 DD Form 1337 is lost during evacuation     has the family members execute an affidavit
      or family members have arrived at the      containing facts about the non-availability of the
      safe haven FSO or a CONUS location         DD Form 1337; prepares a new DD Form 1337
      without a DD Form 1337                     and attaches the affidavit to the original (note 5).

NOTES:
            1. Responsibility of FSO at gaining station.
            2. Responsibility of FSO at losing station.
1218                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       3. Keep changes to a minimum, and permit only when major changes occur in status of
          dependents or amount available for designation of payment to dependents. Member sub-
          mits old original DD Form 1337 to FSO when he or she completes a new form.
       4. Date and signature of primary dependent, designated dependent, or representative for
          minor dependents authorized to receive emergency payment(s) is accomplished at time of
          presentation of DD Form 1337 to the FSO for payments.
       5. The affidavit should contain: (a) name, rank, and SSN of member; (b) name of the senior
          family member and relationship to member; (c) name, relationship, and age of all other
          family members evacuated; (d) reason DD Form 1337 is not available; and (e) state the
          amount of advance pay authorized on the DD 1337 and the amount of any previous evacu-
          ation payments received. This affidavit must be attested by an officer or paying agent and
          will serve as the supporting document for any future payments.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     1219


Table 79.2. Disposition of DD Form 1337.
                        A                    B                            C
R
U
L
E       If the FSO is            and makes                Then
    1 servicing FSO              installment payment      return DD Form 1337 to dependent
                                                          for use in obtaining additional
                                                          payments.
    2 paying FSO or safe haven   full payment             attach finalized DD Form 1337 to
      FSO                                                 original voucher representing full
                                                          or final payment.
    3                            final payment
    4                            no payment               obtain original DD Form 1337
                                                          from dependent and destroy.

NOTE: A dependent who does not request payment during evacuation, or is paid a first installment and
does not request final payment, should surrender DD Form 1337 to the Air Force base nearest the safe
haven area after dependent is established in that area.
1220                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               Chapter 80

                  JUMPS PAY SERVICE FOR AIR NATIONAL GUARD (ANG)
                     AND AIR FORCE RESERVE (USAFR) PERSONNEL

80.1. Description. Members of the Air Force Reserve Forces ordered to certain types of active duty for
definite periods are paid by JUMPS. They are:
   80.1.1. The ANG and USAFR officers and airmen ordered to voluntary extended active duty with the
   Regular Air Force for definite periods, not to exceed 4 years, with specific dates of separation. These
   members must occupy authorized unit manning document positions in the Regular Air Force and are
   referred to as statutory tour officers and airmen under 10 U.S.C. 175, 265, 678, 3015, 8021, 8033,
   8038 and 849, and 32 U.S.C. 708 authorizations.
   80.1.2. ANG or USAFR officers and airmen on active duty tours and performing the following duties:
       80.1.2.1. ANG and USAFR recruiters.
       80.1.2.2. ANG and USAFR administrative support officers.
       80.1.2.3. ANG members performing support alert duties.
       80.1.2.4. ANG and USAFR air technician on test active duty.

80.2. Establishing Accounts. See chapter 24 of DFAS-DEM 7073-3, and Chapter 39 of this volume,
for the specific guidance on:
   80.2.1. Accessions.
   80.2.2. Base-level input transactions.
   80.2.3. DFAS-DE responsibilities.

80.3. Notification of Duty Performance for Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) Personnel.
The following instructions are for reporting IMA duty performance to the servicing Reserve Payroll
Office (RPO) for payment processing. The purpose of this system is to transmit IMA pay data to the RPO
via the electronic case control system (ECCS) mail application. The IMA will note the servicing RPO on
the pay document or the FSO may access the JUMPS-RF file to obtain the information from the adminis-
trative portion of the member's MMPA (first screen in CICS).
   80.3.1. General Information:
       80.3.1.1. The ANG and the USAFR provide first line backup for the Air Force in the event of war,
       national emergency, or disaster. Their mission in peacetime is readiness. The IMA is an integral
       part of the total force and is assigned to a specific position within the active force which would be
       assumed upon mobilization.
       80.3.1.2. The Base Individual Mobilization Augmentee Administrator (BIMAA) is the base level
       personnel expert for IMAs. The BIMAA works for the Chief, MPF, and is the link with the Major
       Command Reserve Affairs Office and HQ Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC). The function of
       the BIMAA is to assist IMAs with personnel matters and actions. It is recommended the FSO
       point of contact work closely with the BIMAA and the base level unit. The formation of a work-
       ing group to initiate this program is strongly encouraged.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                1221


       80.3.1.3. The active duty FSOs report performance of active duty tours (AD) and inactive duty
       training periods (IDTs) for IMAs performing at or near their bases. This pay data is reported via
       ECCS using the "Statement of Tour of Duty" screen or the "IAD performance confirmation"
       screen.
   80.3.2. Active duty performance reporting:
       80.3.2.1. The AF Form 458, Statement of Tour of Duty, is the primary source document for pay
       and retirement point credit. It may be a separate form or may be included at the bottom of the
       machine-generated active duty order, AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty
       Training/Active Duty Tour. This form and supporting documents must be properly completed. A
       separate AF Form 458 must be completed for each active duty tour performed. The AF Form 458
       will continue to be used with all manually produced orders. Return incomplete or inaccurate
       forms to the training activity specified in block 2 of AF Form 458 or block 19 of AF Form 938.
       80.3.2.2. The IMA is authorized advance certification per AFMAN 36-8001. The AF Form 458
       may be submitted as early as the first day of duty. For a properly authorized advance certification,
       the following statement must be included in the remarks section: "I certify that the above member
       reported for duty at (date and time reported). I will notify the servicing RPO by message if the
       member does not complete the tour as stated." The certifying official must send a message within
       24 hours of the date such duty is terminated.
       80.3.2.3. Before entering into ECCS, verify the following for completeness: order number, name,
       SSN, performance dates and times, as well as arrivals and departures, mode of travel and also
       whether government quarters are used. There are two signatures required on each AF Form 458;
       the member's and the certifying official's. The time and date of reporting may be anytime within
       7 days, before or after, of the actual start date stated in the orders; however, the duration of the tour
       may not exceed the total number of days authorized in the orders.
   80.3.3. Inactive duty performance reporting:
       80.3.3.1. IDTs can be performed for pay or non-pay. For the purpose of ECCS, process only those
       for pay (block 15 of the AF Form 40A, Authorization for Individual Inactive Duty Training). IDT
       must be authorized in advance (date in block 8 on or before the first date of duty) by the supervisor
       using the AF Form 40A, section I. The AF Form 40A may be reproduced if extra copies are
       needed for verifying scheduled participation for the civilian employer or for reservations at billet-
       ing; however, the signatures on the document must be originals or certified true copies.
       80.3.3.2. IMAs are paid one day's basic pay for each IDT of at least 4 hours duration. If the IDT
       is for 8 hours or more, they will receive 2 days' basic pay. IMAs cannot be paid for more than two
       periods in any one calendar day (24 hours).
       80.3.3.3. Authorizing official for the AF Form 40A is:
           80.3.3.3.1. The commander or chief of the activity to which the member is assigned or
           attached.
           80.3.3.3.2. The unit commander, for IMAs attached to a Reserve unit.
NOTE: This authority may be delegated in writing to a specific military or civilian member of the activ-
ity.
1222                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       80.3.3.4. The certification of AF Form 40A requires three signatures; the member's, that of the
       official who authorized the training, and that of the person supervising the member and certifying
       the training was performed as authorized. The completed AF Form 40A serves two purposes: It
       documents training and acts as a pay voucher. It must be complete and accurate before duty can
       be reported for payment. Close attention must be given to the date blocks (6, 8, 18, and 19) on the
       AF Form 40A.
       80.3.3.5. If the forms are not properly completed, return them to the training unit or activity that
       is specified in block 10 of the AF Form 40A.
   80.3.4. ECCS formats are listed in the J Forms File as "Statement of Tour of Duty" and "IAD Perfor-
   mance Confirmation".
   80.3.5. Supporting documents must be mailed with a transmittal noting performance reported via
   ECCS to the servicing RPO.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              1223


Figure 80.1. Format to Report Payment of ARPAS Partial Pay.


 CHARACTER                                   DESCRIPTION
  POSITION


      1-5       0DW03


      6-14      SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER


     15-19      FIRST 5 LETTERS OF MEMBER'S LAST NAME


     20-25      VOUCHER DATE: YYMMDD


     32-37      SPECIFIC INDEBTEDNESS AMOUNT


       38       INDEBTEDNESS TYPE: 5 - PARTIAL PAYMENT
                                    7 - LACKLAND BMT PAYMENT


     39-44      ACCOUNTING PROCESSING CODE - FROM SUBTABLE 15


     47-54      VOUCHER PARTIAL PAYMENT NUMBER. DO NOT LEAVE BLANK. FIRST
                POSITION MUST BE P.


     55-60      DSSN/ADSN MAKING THE PAYMENT. ZERO-FILL TO THE RIGHT.
                CANNOT BE BLANK


     61-63      PAY AUTHORIZATION CONTROL NUMBER. DO NOT LEAVE BLANK


     64-65      COMPONENT OF PAY: A6


     66-80      COMMON DATA
1224                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               Chapter 81

                                      VOIDABLE ENLISTMENT

81.1. Description. A fraudulent contract of enlistment or induction is not void but is voidable at the
option of the government (DoDFMR, Volume 7A, chapter 4). When the government becomes aware of
the fraud, it may void the contract or waive objection and allow the contract to stand. If an enlistment is
initially determined void, the member is separated.

81.2. Responsibilities. The MPF maintaining the member's field personnel record is responsible for sub-
mission of voidable enlistment data to DFAS-DE. Required input is produced as a by-product of the per-
sonnel system (MILPDS) update.

81.3. Effect on MMPA:
   81.3.1. Enlistment Initially Determined Void. Member is separated (see Chapter 52 for separation
   procedures).
   81.3.2. Fraudulent Enlistment Pending. All pay and allowances and leave accruals are suspended
   pending either separation or waiver of the objections. Allotments are stopped at the end of the prior
   month. All pay due is suspended (MMPA in T-status, reason 1).
   81.3.3. Voidable Enlistment Waived. If member's account was suspended, member is put in an
   on-station status. If a different status exists, submit input transactions per applicable chapter. All pay
   and allowances, deductions and leave accruals are reinstated, back to date of suspension, and any
   amount in held pay, due to status, is released. Submit input transactions per Chapter 57 and Chapter
   58 to restart any allotments.

81.4. DFAS-DE Output:
   81.4.1. DTR. Processed transactions appear in section 6 of servicing ADSN's DTR (Chapter 2).
   Note all input actions (from DTR) concerning void or voidable enlistment in management case file.
   Enter date member's pay was suspended due to fraudulent enlistment and date waiver of fraud was
   determined, if applicable.
   81.4.2. Pay Authorization:
       81.4.2.1. Fraudulent enlistment pending. Zero-pay authorization is created.
       81.4.2.2. Voidable enlistment waived. If member's account was suspended, DJMS creates a new
       pay authorization.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1225


                                               Chapter 82

                                       PRIVACY ACT OF 1974

82.1. Description. AFI 37-132 outlines the policies and procedures governing the collection, safeguard-
ing, maintenance, public notice, use, access, amendment, and dissemination of personal information in
JUMPS. In case of conflict, AFI 37-132 takes precedence over any existing Air Force directive dealing in
whole or in part with the personal privacy and rights of individuals regarding their personal records,
except for disclosures of personal information as authorized by the Freedom of Information Act and
implemented by AFI 37-131. Familiarity with these directives and compliance with the policies and pro-
cedures in them is mandatory for all personnel involved in JUMPS operations.

82.2. Access by Individuals to Their Records. Chapter 4 of AFI 37-132 contains specific policies and
procedures governing requests by members for JUMPS records on themselves. Although disclosures to
members of their own records fall within the category of "agency official use disclosure exception" and
need not be accounted for, FSOs should note the annual reports requirements in AFI 37-132, section 9.6.
Records sufficient to provide the necessary estimate, required for these reports, should be maintained.

82.3. Disclosures of Personal Information To Other Agencies And Individuals. Chapter 9 of AFI
37-132 lists the specific conditions under which disclosure may be made. Also, disclosures may be made
to the organizations or individuals listed in the "routine use" provisions of the JUMPS system notice pub-
lished in the Federal Register. These disclosures do not require a written request by, or the prior written
consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains. They are:
   82.3.1. Officials and employees of any DoD component who need the record in the performance of
   their duties, and who use the record for the purpose(s) for which it is maintained.
   82.3.2. Internal Revenue Service for tax matters.
   82.3.3. Social Security Administration for FICA reports and adjustments.
   82.3.4. Department of Veterans Affairs for insurance.
   82.3.5. General Accounting Office for audits, opinions, and action on claims.
   82.3.6. State and local governments for tax and welfare information.
   82.3.7. United States and state courts for civil litigation and criminal prosecution purposes.
   82.3.8. Members of Congress for complaints from constituents and for inquiries not generated by
   constituents.
   82.3.9. Insurance companies for allotments made to them by military members.
   82.3.10. Financial institutions for deposits (checks-to-banks) and payments, including computer ser-
   vice and other accounting services when they act as authorized agents of financial organizations spec-
   ified by the member to receive monies due the member.
   82.3.11. Law enforcement agencies such as (but not limited to) Office of Special Investigations,
   USAF; Federal Bureau of Investigation; city and state authorities for violations of law, for investiga-
   tion, and possible criminal prosecution; civil court action or regulatory processes.
   82.3.12. Disclosures made under the Freedom of Information Act.
1226                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   82.3.13. Disclosures to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution, civil litigation, or for
   investigatory purposes.
   82.3.14. American Red Cross.
   82.3.15. Air Force Aid Society.

82.4. Collection of Personal Information From Individuals:
   82.4.1. AFI 37-132 lists the specific conditions under which information may be collected from indi-
   viduals. Individuals who are asked to supply information about themselves will be advised of:
       82.4.1.1. The Federal statute or executive order authorizing the solicitation of the information.
       82.4.1.2. The principal purpose(s) for which it is to be used.
       82.4.1.3. The routine uses to be made of it.
       82.4.1.4. Whether furnishing the information is mandatory or voluntary.
       82.4.1.5. The effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of it.
   82.4.2. AFR 0-9 contains an identified list of all forms affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. A sepa-
   rate Privacy Act Statement (identified by the same form number followed by PA) must be used with
   the basic form. Departmental forms covered by a blanket form to serve as a uniform Privacy Act
   Statement are listed in AFR 0-9, section F.

82.5. Accounting Of Disclosures:
   82.5.1. AFI 37-132, section 9.6, contains generalized procedures for accounting of disclosures. Spe-
   cifically, FSOs locally devise a form (or use AF Form 771, Accounting of Disclosures, if more conve-
   nient) containing this information in the stated sequence:
       82.5.1.1. Member's last name, middle initial, first name.
       82.5.1.2. SSN.
       82.5.1.3. Date of disclosure.
       82.5.1.4. Nature and purpose of each disclosure.
       82.5.1.5. Name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure is made.
   82.5.2. The forms must be completed in duplicate. The original (with member's written permission,
   if applicable) is kept in a permanent file, in alpha sequence, and stored in the military pay area. The
   duplicate copy is filed in the member's management case file.
   82.5.3. There is no accounting requirement for recurring transmittal of pay, allotment, and other
   deductions from a member's pay to recipient designated in writing by the individual, such as checks to
   financial institutions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1227


                                               Chapter 83

                      LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE PROGRAM (LTCIP)

83.1. Description. Long term care insurance is a congressionally mandated program established to pro-
vide long term care insurance for military members and their families. The first premium deduction from
pay is effective October 1, 2002 for military members. Long term care insurance is not a government
insurance. It is a private long term care insurance offered to military members and their family members
by the office of personnel management and their long term care (LTC) partners (which consists of John
Hancock and Metropolitan Life). Procedures for enrollment, eligibility, and premium billing options are
available from LTC partners.

83.2. Source of Input. LTC Partners is the contracted provider for long-term care insurance. LTC Part-
ners is the contracted provider for long-term care insurance. LTC partners processes all actions for pre-
mium billing from pay via an AI allotment to company code N904413. There is no FSO input. LTC
partners handles all rejects or inquiries related to the program. Instruct all Air Force military members to
call long term care partners at 1-800-582-3337 with any questions or for new enrollments. The web site
for LTC Partners is: http://www.ltcfeds.com.
1228                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               Chapter 84

                             COMMAND RESPONSIBILITY PAY (CRP)

84.1. Description. Command responsibility pay (CRP) is for officers serving in positions, designated by
SAF, of unusual responsibility and critical in nature to the Air Force. Officers serving in these designated
positions must be in pay grade 0-6 or below to be entitled to this special pay. CRP is scheduled for termi-
nation 30 Sep 07 or when the member is no longer entitled, whichever comes first.

84.2. Responsibility. The MPF or the member’s CSS is responsible for determination of entitlement to
CRP and for processing of transactions needed to pay CRP to Commanders. The transactions are input to
MILPDS and flow to DJMS-AC, posting to the MMPA as FID 07.
   84.2.1. MILPDS Input. Input generated by MILPDS is the only acceptable method to authorize (start)
   or terminate (stop) CRP. CRP corrections and cancellations are also generated from MILPDS input.
   These transactions (FID 07) are created by the MPF and processed through MILPDS.

84.3. Case Establishment, Substantiating Documentation and Processing Procedures. The only two
acceptable methods for initiating CRP input to DJMS are via MILPDS or the case management system
(CMS). Accordingly, DFAS does not accept e-mail, telephone or walk-in CRP requests.
   84.3.1. MILPDS Input. Input generated by MILPDS is the only acceptable method to authorize
   (start) or terminate (stop) CRP. CRP corrections and cancellations are also generated from MILPDS
   input. These transactions (FID 07) are created by the MPF, processed through MILPDS, compiled on
   a CRP spreadsheet and manually processed each week by DFAS. The CRP spreadsheet serves as the
   substantiating document for DFAS action. NOTE: The MPF does not re-input a transaction if one
   has already been created and MILPDS reflects the proper information (see paragraph 84.3.2.1.
   below).
   84.3.2. CMS. CMS is used for all other CRP issues. Cases are opened by the customer (FSO, MPF,
   AFPC, etc.) and sent to the command responsibility pay box. Established cases must fall into one of
   the following categories:
       84.3.2.1. After MILPDS input, DJMS still does not reflect the same data as MILPDS. These
       cases are typically opened by the MPF, but may include the FSO and AFPC.
           84.3.2.1.1. Prior to establishing a CMS case, the customer must wait 10 business days from
           the date of initial MPF input to allow completion of normal MILPDS transaction processing
           (see paragraph 84.3.1. above).
           84.3.2.1.2. There must be a rejected MILPDS transaction available for view within
           DJMS-processed transactions. NOTE: the transaction will have a reject code of RAK-trans
           recycled because of temporary suspension of program.
           84.3.2.1.3. The rejected transaction will serve as the substantiating document for DFAS
           action.
           84.3.2.1.4. DFAS refers the case to the member’s servicing MPF if an appropriate MILPDS
           transaction does not exist (see paragraph 84.3.2.1.2.). The MPF refers the case back to DFAS,
           advising DFAS of specific action(s), if any, taken. If the MPF makes input, DFAS will process
           the transaction(s) according to paragraph 84.3.1. above and close the CMS case.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1229


       84.3.2.2. Current CRP entitlement prevents processing of other DJMS transactions. These cases
       are typically opened by the FSO or DFAS-PMJCAC, but may include the MPF and AFPC.
           84.3.2.2.1. Temporary Changes. These are changes requested by the customer to allow addi-
           tional DJMS processing. Temporary changes cause no loss of entitlement and return the mem-
           ber’s CRP to the same status it was in prior to the changes. (Example: CRP erroneously
           started prior to PCS arrival transaction.) DFAS will temporarily stop the CRP, process the
           affected transaction, resume CRP, and close the CMS case. NOTE: Requests for temporary
           changes to allow promotion processing are not acceptable. Promotions must be input and pro-
           cessed in accordance with paragraph 84.3.2.3. below.
           84.3.2.2.2. Permanent Changes. Permanent changes are requests to terminate CRP to allow
           PCS departure and separation processing.
                84.3.2.2.2.1. There must be a rejected MILPDS transaction available for view within
                DJMS-processed transactions.
                84.3.2.2.2.2. The rejected transaction will serve as the substantiating document for DFAS
                action.
                84.3.2.2.2.3. DFAS refers the case to the servicing MPF if an appropriate MILPDS trans-
                action does not exist (see paragraph 84.3.2.2.2.1.). The MPF refers the case back to DFAS,
                advising DFAS of specific action(s), if any, taken. If the MPF makes input, DFAS will
                process the transaction(s) according to paragraph 84.3.1. above and close the CMS case.
       84.3.2.3. Promotion Transaction Rejects and Recycles. A CMS case is opened by DFAS for each
       reject. DFAS will temporarily stop the CRP, process the affected transaction, resume CRP, and
       close the CMS case.
       84.3.2.4. Additional Information Required. A CMS case is opened by DFAS to request informa-
       tion required to complete processing of a transaction compiled within the CRP spreadsheet. Typ-
       ically, this is the result of duplicate, multiple, or incompatible MILPDS transactions. DFAS sends
       these cases to the MPF for validation/explanation. The MPF refers the case back to DFAS, advis-
       ing DFAS of specific action, if any, required.

84.4. Inquiries. General CRP policy issues/questions should follow normal policy procedures/protocol
(i.e. local FSO/MPF to MAJCOM, and then to AFAFO (policy) and/or AFPC). Issues should be resolved
at the lowest level. Specific (individual) issues/concerns should also be directed to the local FSO or MPF
for resolution. Again, if the local offices are unable to resolve the issue, normal protocol should be fol-
lowed.

84.5. Deleted
   84.5.1. Deleted
       84.5.1.1. Deleted
       84.5.1.2. Deleted
   84.5.2. Deleted

84.6. Adopted Forms, was removed from Chapter 84 and moved to the end of Attachment 1.
1230                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


84.7. Forms Prescribed, was removed from Chapter 84 and moved to the end of Attachment 1.



                                           JOHN G. VONGLIS, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                           Financial Management and Comptroller
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   1231


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions, 22 July 1994
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 2 February 2001
AFI 31-205, The Air Force Corrections System, 7 April 2004
AFI 32-6004, Furnishings Management, 3 March 2006
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 1 June 1998
AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional Continuing
Education), 11 July 2001
AFI 36-2603, Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records, 1 March 1996
AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, 14 November 2003
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, 21 November 2001
AFI 36-2906, Personal Financial Responsibility, 1 January 1998
AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services, 25 July 05
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 20 October 2005
AFI 36-3004, Aviator Continuation Pay (ACP) Program, 24 February 2000
AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances for Air Force Personnel, 1 September 1998
AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements, 8 September 2006
AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention, Retirement and Separation, 2 February 2006
AFI 41-120, Medical Resource Operations, 18 October 2005
AFI 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, 7 November 2003
AFI 51-501, Tort Claims, 15 December 2005
AFI 65-202, Administration of a Base Financial Management Quality Assurance Program,
16 November 2000
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 July 2006
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 36-8001, Reserve Personnel Participation and Training Procedures, 22 January 2004
AFMAN 65-116 V2, Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) Unit Procedures Excluding FSO, April
2006
AFMAN 65-116 V3, Defense Joint Military Pay System - Reserve Component (DJMS-RC),
DFAS-DE 7000.4-R, Accounting for Obligations
1232                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


DFAS-DE 7010.1-R, General Accounting and Finance Systems at Base Level, 15 February 1991
DFAS-DE 7010.2-R, Commercial Transactions at Base Level
DFAS-DE 7010.3-R, Travel Transactions at Base Level
DFAS-DER 177-102, Commercial Transactions at Base Level
DoDFMR, Volume 5, Disbursing Policy and Procedures, August 1999
DODFMR, Volume 7A, Military Pay Policy and Procedures - Active Duty and Reserve Pay, February
1999
DoDFMR, Volume 7B, Military Pay Policy and Procedures for Retired Pay, September 1999
DoDFMR, Volume 7C, Special Military Pay/Personnel Programs and Operating Procedures, June 1998
DoDI 1338-18, Armed Forces Clothing Monetary Allowance Procedures, 7 January 1998
JFTR, Joint Federal Travel Regulation
JTR, Joint Travel Regulation
May 15, 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ACCS—Automated Case Control System
ACIP—Aviator Continuation Incentive Pay
ACP—Aviator Continuation Pay
ADSN—Accounting and Disbursing Station Number
AFAS—Air Force Aid Society
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AI—Action Indicator
APDS—Advanced Personnel Data System
AWOL—Absent Without Leave
BAQ—Basic Allowance for Quarters
BAS—Basic Allowance for Subsistence
BITS—Base Information Transfer System.
COLA—Cost of Living Allowance
CONUS—Continental US, lower 48, not including Alaska or Hawaii
CMAB—Clothing Maintenance Allowance - Basic
CMAI—Clothing Maintenance Allowance - Initial
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       1233


CMAS—Clothing Maintenance Allowance - Standard
CZTE—Combat Zone Tax Exclusion
DAO—Defense Accounting Office or Officer
DDLDS—Date Departed Last Duty Station
DDP—Dependent Dental Program
DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
DFAS-DE—Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Denver Center
DFAS-IN—Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Indianapolis Center
DIREP—Difficulty Reporting System
DJMS—Defense Joint Military Pay System
DJMS-AC—Defense Joint Military Pay System - Active Component
DJMS-RC—Defense Joint Military Pay System - Reserve Component
DoDFMR—Department of Defense Financial Management - Regulation, formerly DoDPM
DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center
DOE—Date of Enlistment
DOPMA—Defense Officer Personnel Management Act
DOS—Date of Separation
DROR—Daily Register of Rejects
DROT—Daily Register of Transactions
DTL—Document Transmittal Listing
DTR—Daily Transaction Record
DVA—Department of Veterans' Affairs
EFTS—Electronic Funds Transfer System
EOM—End of Month
ESCCP—Engineering and Scientific Career Continuation Pay
ETS—Expiration Term of Service
FDP—Foreign Duty Pay
FICA—Federal Insurance Contribution Act (Social Security Tax)
FID—Format ID
FITW—Federal Income Tax Withholding
FMFIA—Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act
FMO—Flight Management Office
1234                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FO—Financial Organization
FSA—Family Separation Allowance
FSO—Financial Services Office or Officer
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HDIP—Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay
HFP—Hostile Fire Pay
HMO—Housing Management Office or Officer
IAS—Immediate Access Storage
IDP—Imminent Danger Pay
IRS—Internal Revenue Service
ISI—Input Station Identifier
IVHA—Interim Variable Housing Allowance (VHA without offset)
JBIT—Central Site Unit Address
JDC—JUMPS Data Collection
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations
JLES—Central Site LES Address File
JOPS—Joint Service Software
JPPSO—Joint Personal Property Shipping Office
JUMPS—Joint Uniform Military Pay System
LES—Leave and Earnings Statement
MAFR—Merged Accountability and Fund Reporting
MAJCOM—Major Command
MER—Month-End Restructure
MGIB—Montgomery GI Bill
MIA—Missing In Action
MM—Mid Month
MMPA—Master Military Pay Account
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MPO—Military Pay Order
MSP—Multi-Year Special Pay
MTF—Military Medical Treatment Facility
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentalities
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                      1235


NOC—Notification of Change
NPA—Net Pay Advice
OCONUS—Outside the Continental US; includes Alaska and Hawaii
OHA—Overseas Housing Allowance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OTS—Officer Training School
PAS—Personnel Accounting Symbol
PCN—Product Control Number
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PDS—Permanent Duty Station
PFR—Personal Financial Record
POA—Power of Attorney
PRA—Pay Record Accessibility
PSC—Postal Service Center
PSMC—Personal Statement of Military Compensation
QE—Quality Examinator
RIF—Reduction in Force
RMS—Report Management System
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SDAP—Special Duty Assignment Pay
SDP—Savings Deposit Program
SITW—State Income Tax Withholding
SMA—Subject Matter Areas
SOMPO—Summary of Military Pay Obligations
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
SSB—Special Separation Benefit
SSN—Social Security Number
SWF—Separation Work File
TAFMSD—Total Active Federal Military Service Date
TAMP—Transition Assistance Management Program
TASO—Terminal Area Security Officer
TDY—Temporary Duty
1236                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


TLA—Temporary Lodging Allowance
TLE—Temporary Lodging Expense
VEAP—Veterans' Educational Assistance Program
VGLI—Veteran's Group Life Insurance
VHA—Variable Housing Allowance
VSI—Voluntary Separation Incentive


Adopted Forms.


AF Form 40A, Authorization for Individual Inactive Duty Training
AF Form 48, Source Document Reject Control Slip
AF Form 118, Refund of Tuition Assistance - Education Services Program
AF Form 165, General Power of Attorney
AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report
AF Form 458, Statement of Tour of Duty
AF Form 618, Medical Board Report
AF Form 656, Clothing Request and Receipt
AF Form 657, Personal Clothing Records - Female Airman (Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard)
AF Form 658, Personal Clothing Records - Male Airman (Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard)
AF Form 771, Accounting of Disclosures
AF Form 831, Special Power of Attorney
AF Form 901, Reenlistment Eligibility Annex to DD Form 4
AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour
AF Form 985, Report of Travel Time/Leave (JUMPS)
AF Form 1227, Authority for Tuition Assistance - Education Services Program
AF Form 1613, Statement of Service
AF Form 1881, Hostile Fire Pay Certification and MPO
AF Form 1887, Request and Authorization for Aeronautical Orders
AF Form 1969, Officer Uniform Allowance Certification
AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change
AF Form 3125, General Purpose
AF Form 3070, Record of Nonjudicial Punishment Proceedings
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      1237


AF Form 3071, Record of Recommended Non-judicial Punishment Proceedings
AF Form 3540, Do-It Yourself (DITY) Move Certification
DD Form 4, Enlistment/Reenlistment Document - Armed Forces of the United States
DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data
DD Form 173/2, Joint Message Form (1-1 (Black Ink)), (1-2 (Red Ink))
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss
DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty
DD Form 362, Statement of Charges/Cash Collection Voucher
DD Form 504, Request and Receipt for Health and Comfort Supplies
DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
DD Form 1155, Order for Supplies or Services/Request for Quotations
DD Form 1299, Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property
DD Form 1300, Report of Casualty
DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher
DD Form 1351-4, Voucher or Claim for Dependent Travel and Dislocation or Trailer Allowance
DD Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence-Certification
DD Form 1588, Record of Travel Payment
DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel
DD Form 2090, Government Property Lost or Damaged (GPLD) Survey Certificate
DD Form 1588, Record of Travel Payment
DD Form 2278, Do-It-Yourself Move and Counseling Checklist
DD Form 2366, Montgomery G.I. Bill Act of 1984 (MGIB)
DD Form 2494, Tricare – Active Duty Family Member (FMIP) Dental Plan Enrollment Election
OF Form 1017, Journal Voucher
PD Form 3062, Claim for Relief on Account of Loss, Theft or Destruction of United States Savings Bond
After Valid Issue but Prior to Receipt by Owner, Co-owner, or Beneficiary
SF 502, Medical Record – Narrative Summary
SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal
SF 1047, Public Voucher for Refunds
SF 1164, Claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business
SF 1080, Voucher for Transfers Between Appropriations and/or Funds
SF 1081, Voucher and Schedule of Withdrawals and Credits
1238                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


SF 1096, Schedule of Voucher Deduction
SF 1098, Schedule of Canceled or Undelivered Checks
SF 1219, Statement of Accountability
SS Form 5, Application for a Social Security Number
TD Form 668-W, Statement of Personal Exemptions and Filing Status
TD Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income
TD Form 1099-R, Distributions
TD Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement


Forms Prescribed.


AF Form 220, Request Authorization and Pay Order Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS)
AF Form 265, AFO Payment Authorization (JUMPS)
AF Form 350, Separation Pay Worksheet
AF Form 528, Dependency Discrepancy Report
AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic Allowance for Quarters
(BAQ), or Dependency Redetermination
AF Form 987, Recertification of Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ), Variable Housing Allowance
(VHA)
AF Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization
AF Form 1039, Request to Receive and/or Extend Repayment of an Advance Housing Allowance
AF Form 1121, Payment Suppression Register (JUMPS)
AF Form 1209, Document Transmittal (JUMPS)
AF Form 1357, Request for Temporary Lodging Allowance
AF Form 1373, MPO Document Control Log Transmittal
AF Form 1486, Unit Leave Control Log
AF Form 1745, Address Change Form
AF Form 1781, Remission Application
AF Form 2070, JUMPS Pay Accessibility Roster
AF Form 2451, Financial Statement - Remission of Indebtedness (LRA)
AF Form 3502, Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Variable Housing Allowance (VHA)
DD Form 114, Military Pay Order
DD Form 115, Military Payroll Money List
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    1239


DD Form 117, Military Pay Voucher
DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization
DD Form 397, Claims Certification and Voucher for Death Gratuity Payment
DD Form 1337, Authorization/Designation for Emergency Pay and Allowance
DD Form 1351-6, Multiple Payments List
DD Form 1475, Basic Allowance for Subsistence Certification
DD Form 1561, Statement to Substantiate Payment of Family Separation Allowance
DD Form 2058, State of Legal Residence Certificate
DD Form 2058-1, State Income Tax Exemption Test Certificate
DD Form 2367, Individual Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) Report
DD Form 2558, Authorization to Start, Stop or Change an Allotment
DD Form 2559, Savings Bond Allotment Authorization/Active Duty or Retired Pay
DD Form 2560, Advance Pay Certification/Authorization
DD Form 2572, Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Package Transfer Actions
DFAS-DE Form 131, Dependency Statement - Ward of a Court
DFAS DE Form 705, Certificate for Income Tax Adjustment
DFAS Form 702, Leave and Earnings Statement (LES)
DFAS Form 703, Net Pay Advice (NPA)
DFAS-DE Form 1856, Statement of Understanding Basic Allowance for Quarters - Dependents
DFAS-DE Form 1863, Dependency Determinations Control Log
DFAS-DE Form 1865, Dependency Statement - Child Born Out of Wedlock Under Age 21
DFAS-DE Form 1866, Dependency Statement - Incapacitated Child Over Age 21
DFAS-DE Form 1867, Dependency Statement - Full-Time Student 21 - 22 Years of Age
DFAS-DE Form 1868, Dependency Statement - Parent
SBD-2104, Authorization for purchase and request for change United States Series EE Savings Bonds
SF 1174, Claim for Unpaid Compensation of Deceased Member of the Uniformed Service
SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form
TD Form W-2C, Corrected Wage and Tax Statement
TD Form W-4, Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate
TD Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate
TD Form 2159, Payroll Deduction Agreement
1240                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              Attachment 2

                     JFTR/JTR LOCATION CODES, PER DIEM RATES AND
                        DIRECTORY OF GOVERNMENT FACILITIES

A2.1. JFTR Location Code Directory. Furnished to DJMS servicing finance offices on microfiche.
The microfiche contains the JFTR location codes for all areas which are authorized overseas station
allowance per JFTR, Volume I.
   A2.1.1. Sequence. The JFTR location codes are listed by country in alphabetic sequence with the cit-
   ies or other subdivisions in alphabetic sequence within each country. The five character
   JFTR-LOCTN code (2 alpha followed by 3 numeric digits) assigned to each area is valid for interim
   housing, housing allowance and cost-of-living allowance.
   A2.1.2. Tables. The tables containing the JFTR locations for overseas station allowance, COLA
   index, MIHA and the currency exchange rates are available under CICSJ3-MSO (a focus function).
       A2.1.2.1. Table 63 contains currency exchange rates. The currency rate is used to convert the rent
       amount to US dollars if need be. The currency exchange rate is by Country Code.
       A2.1.2.2. Table 64 contains the rates for MIHA. The table has the current rate plus many prior
       rates (over 20). The rates are for enlisted or officer.
       A2.1.2.3. Table 65 contains the current rate plus nine prior rates for OHA and COLA.
           A2.1.2.3.1. Maximum allowable ceiling for housing - by JTR location and grade;
           A2.1.2.3.2. Utility rates for officer and enlisted;
           A2.1.2.3.3. Unaccompanied percentage for officer/enlisted;
           A2.1.2.3.4. COLA index for officer and enlisted.
   A2.1.3. Disposition. Dispose of the microfiche received per instructions in AFI 37-133, Volume II.

A2.2. JFTR/JTR Per Diem Rates and Directory of Government Facilities (DF). DFAS-DE electron-
ically transmits changes to per diem rates and availability of government dining facilities monthly.
Changes are transmitted to all base level finance offices via JDC lines and used by travel sections to
update the Per Diem Rates Maintenance System (PDRMS). Changes apply to military travel allowances
listed in the JFTR, Volume I, Appendix B and D, civilian travel allowances listed in the JTR, Volume II,
Appendix A and E, and availability of government dining facilities contained in AFPAM 34-602, Direc-
tory of Government Quarters and Dining Facilities.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1241


                                             Attachment 3

                     ON-LINE DJMS SYSTEMS AVAILABLE FOR ACCESS
The following is a list of commands for available on-line DJMS systems and a brief explanation of what
they access.


           CICSH3/J3 ACCESS


 CWTO Message to Network Control (Air Force Only)
      Enables user on-line contact with network control.


   JBIT    BITS Organization Table (Air Force Only)
           View or update access to on-line BITS organization table.


  JBTA     Off-line Reporting Output Product Destination Change Menu
           Allows access to other ADSNs’ off-line reporting control products (for
           contingency operations).


  JBTR     Off-line Reporting File Transfer
           Used after Off-line Reporting File Transfer to execute the appropriate file
           search.


  JBTO     Off-line Reporting ADSN Output Product Menu
           Access to off-line reporting control products by default ADSN.

  JCCM     Base Inquiry Request - Central Site Automated Case Control System
           (ACCS)
           Displays open ACCS cases being worked by appropriate DFAS center
           processing lines.


  JFRC     Re-certification System
           Re-certification for BAQ, COLA, FSA, OHA and VHA.


  JJAA     JUMPS MMPA Inquiries
           On-line Master Military Pay Account (MMPA) inquiry on individual
           members.
           Contains detailed data from member's current year pay record plus all
1242                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         previous years back to 1977. Also, allows access to the JUMPS MMPA
         Special Inquiries shown below:


         VSI/SSB Computation: Calculates VSI/SSB value => current date or <=
         current date plus 10 days.



         DJMS One-Third Calculation: Calculates maximum monthly deduction
         for debt collection.


         What-If System for COLA: Calculates COLA entitlement for future JFTR
         duty locations.


         What-If System for OHA: Calculates OHA entitlement for future JFTR
         duty locations.


         What-If System for VHA: Calculates VHA entitlement for future JFTR
         duty locations.


         Processed Transaction Inquiry: Displays transactions after processed in a
         DJMS update.


  JJPP   Allows users to acquire printers to CICS, without calling Network Control.


  JLAA   5 Year Tax History System
         Allows local or appropriate DFAS center reissue of TD Forms W-2 and
         W-2C.


  JLES   JUMPS On-line LES Inquiry Main Menu
         Menu access to LES history/address display and LES archive print system.


         LES History File Request: Access by individual or group SSN to current
         or previous 12 LESs.


         LES Address File Display: Access by individual SSN to LES address file.


  JLNA   Net Pay Advice (NPA) Remarks System (Air Force Only)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                            1243


         Allows FSO to input local pay related remarks on the NPA.


  JLTR   NPA/LES Print Request Function
         Produces NPA and LES file to print data locally instead of at appropriate
         DFAS center. Used only by a few overseas sites and requires a DFAS
         center developed PC-based program to produce prints.


 JOLV    JUMPS File Transfer Report
         Used after JDC III file transfer to release file to that day's update. The
         screen allows the user to print or correct SSN and name mismatches before
         release to the update.


  JOPS   JUMPS On-line Processing System
         Used for input of JDC transactions. User may also print, view, correct or
         delete transactions.


 JORA    View/Print DJMS Management Report
         Allows access to the on-line report for timeliness.


 JORB    DJMS Management Report (DSSN Override)


 JOZA    JUMPS Error Codes
         Provides literal translation for JUMPS error codes.


 JPAM    What-If System for Separation
         Calculates separation entitlement or reenlistment bonus


  JPBB   Input Payment Request.
         The military pay clerk will use this application to enter the
         payment request for a centrally paid member who elects to
         have the payment sent to his bank through Electronic Funds
         Transfer (EFT). This application can also be used to view the
         reject file that is generated from this process.


 JPBM    View the Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) File.
1244                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


  JPBX   Input/Confirm Payment Request.
         The FSO or his designee will use this application to confirm the
         payment request that has been input by a military pay clerk. The
         FSO or designee can, in some cases, do the input and confirmation
         if the situation warrants it. The reject file of payment requests may
         Also be viewed using this application.


  JPSM   What-If System for Port Separation
         Calculates port separation entitlement


  JQEV   Quality Examination Menu
         Allows print, view, correction and deletion of transactions. It also displays
         all cycles sent to DFAS central site and lets user release cycles
         Into DJMS updates.


  JTLM   Temporary Lodging Calculation Report


  JTLT   Temporary Lodging File Transfer
         Used after TLA is file transferred to release file into the DJMS update.


  JUPD   Request Update Results for Installation’s own ADSN
         Used to select all or individual reports from current update or previous four
         updates for an installation’s own ADSN.


  JVSN   Request Update Results for Another Installation’s ADSN
         Used to select all or individual reports from current update or previous four
         updates for other than an installation’s own ADSN.


 JWMM On-line Inquiry of DJMS Tables
      Allows on-line viewing of DJMS tables used in DJMS-AC and DJMS-RC
      processing.


 LOCA    Worldwide Locator System (Air Force Only)
         On-line locator function by SSN or name for all individuals loaded on
         DFAS mainframe.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                         1245


 MAIL    ECCS Mail System
         Accesses electronic mail system.


  MSO    Military Pay On-line Inquiry Main Menu
         Menu access to JUMPS/JUMPS-RF inquiry system.


 PARM    JUMPS-RF Master Menu (Also PRAA)
         Menu access to JUMPS-RF functions.


  ZFIX   CICS System Repair
         Activates a terminal that is currently not functioning.
1246                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            Attachment 4

                                  ADVANCE PAY CATEGORIES


        DATA CODES                                     EXPLANATIONS


A                               PCS Advance Pay - Authorized on permanent change of station.


B                               OHA Advance Pay


C                               BAS Advance Pay - Upon reassignment, or when stationed within
                                the United States (except Alaska and Hawaii).


D                               Entry (BMTs) - Authorized on induction or enlistment to report to
                                training or induction center.


F                               Distant Station - Authorized when assigned to distant station
                                where pay and allowances cannot be paid regularly.


G                               VHA/BAQ Advance Pay - Advance pay for housing in CONUS,
                                Alaska, or Hawaii

H                               Extended Active Duty - Authorized when called to extended
                                active duty.


J                               Break in Service - Authorized for permanent change of station on
                                reenlistment after break in service.


K                               Emergency Evacuation - Authorized for emergency evacuation of
                                dependents as ordered by competent authority.


L                               Advance Pay – Cadets


S                               Overseas Security Deposits - Can be deferred for length of time
                                member occupies housing at that location.

The next three categories are for Navy only and provided only for those who access Navy pay records.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                1247



      DATA CODES                            EXPLANATIONS


M                      Advance Clothing and Equipment Allowance (ACE) -
                       Midshipmen only.


N                      Entrance Deposit Loan - Midshipmen only.


P                      Deployed Vessel (Active Navy only).
1248                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                      Attachment 5

                      VETERANS ADMINISTRATION REGIONAL OFFICES


Alabama


         VA Regional Office (242)
         345 Perry Hill road
         Montgomery AL 36109


Alaska


         VA Regional Office (242)
         2925 DeBarr Rd
         Anchorage AK 99508-2989


Arizona


         VA Regional Office (242)
         3225 North Central Avenue
         Phoenix AZ 85012-2493


Arkansas


         VA Regional Office (242)
         Bldg 65 Ft Roots
         P.O. Box 1280
         North Little Rock AR 72115
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007           1249


California


       VA Regional Office (242)
       Federal Building
       11000 Wilshire Blvd
       Los Angeles CA 90024-3676


       VA Regional Office (242)
       2022 Camino Del Rio North
       San Diego CA 92108-1576


       VA Regional Office (242)
       1301 Clay St, Rm 1300 North
       Oakland CA 94612


Colorado


       VA Regional Office (242)
       155 Van Gordon St
       Denver CO 80225-0001


Connecticut


       VA Regional Office (242)
       450 Main Street
       Hartford CT 06103-3077
Delaware


       VA Center Office (242)
       1601 Kirkwood Highway
       Wilmington DE 19805-4988
1250                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


District of Columbia


          VA Regional Office (242)
          1120 Vermont Ave, N.W.
          Washington DC 20421


Florida


          VA Regional Office (242)
          144 1st Ave S.
          St Petersburg FL 33701


Georgia


          VA Regional Office (242)
          730 Peachtree Street
          Atlanta GA 30365-6701


Hawaii


          VA Regional Office (242)
          P.O. Box 50188
          Honolulu HI 96850


Idaho


          VA Regional Office (242)
          805 W. Franklin St
          Boise ID 83702
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                 1251


Illinois


           VA Regional Office (242)
           P.O. Box 8136
           Chicago IL 60680-8136
Indiana


           VA Regional Office (242)
           575 North Pennsylvania Street
           Indianapolis IN 46204-1581


Iowa


           VA Regional Office (242)
           210 Walnut Street
           Des Moines IA 50309-2199


Kansas


           VA Center (242)
           5500 E. Kellogg
           Wichita KS 67218


Kentucky


           VA Regional Office (242)
           545 S. Third St
           Louisville KY 40202-2261
1252                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Louisiana


        VA Regional Office (242)
        701 Loyola Avenue
        New Orleans LA 70113-1931


Maine


        VA Regional Office
        1 VA Center
        Togus ME 04330


Maryland


        VA Regional Office (242)
        Federal Building
        31 Hopkins Plaza
        Baltimore MD 21201-2825


Massachusetts


        VA Regional Office (242)
        John F. Kennedy Federal Bldg
        Government Center
        Boston MA 02203-0307


Michigan


        VA Regional Office (242)
        Patrick V. McNamara Federal Bldg
        477 Michigan Avenue
        Detroit MI 48226-2591
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                 1253



Minnesota


       VA Center (242)
       Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Bldg
       1 Federal Dr
       St Paul MN 55111-4050


Mississippi


       VA Center (242)
       100 West Capitol Street
       Jackson MS 39269-0199


Missouri


       VA Regional Office (242)
       400 South 18th St.
       St Louis MO 63103-2674


Montana


       VA Center (242)
       Fort Harrison MT 59636-1500


Nebraska


       VA Regional Office (242)
       5631 S. 48th St.
       Lincoln NE 68516
1254                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Nevada


       VA Regional Office (242)
       1201 Terminal Way
       Reno NV 89520-0107


New Hampshire


       VA Regional Office (242)
       Norris Cotton Federal Building
       275 Chestnut Street
       Manchester NH 03101-2489


New Jersey


       VA Regional Office (242)
       20 Washington Plaza
       Newark NJ 07102-3174


New Mexico


       VA Regional Office (242)
       Dennis Chavez Federal Building
       500 Gold Avenue
       Albuquerque NM 87102-0098
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                  1255


New York


       VA Regional Office (242)
       Federal Building
       111 West Huron Street
       Buffalo NY 14202-2368
       VA Regional Office (242)
       245 W. Houston St
       New York NY 10014

North Carolina


       VA Regional Office (242)
       Federal Building
       251 North Main Street
       Winston-Salem NC 27155-0001


North Dakota


       VA Center (242)
       2101 Elm St.
       Fargo ND 58102-4972


Ohio


       VA Regional Office (242)
       Anthony J. Celebrezze Federal Bldg
       1240 East Ninth Street
       Cleveland OH 44199-2071
1256                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Oklahoma


         VA Regional Office (242)
         Federal Building
         125 South Main Street
         Muskogee OK 74401-7025


Oregon


         VA Regional Office (242)
         Federal Building
         1220 S.W. 3rd Avenue
         Portland OR 97204-2886


Pennsylvania


         VA Center
         P.O. Box 8079
         Philadelphia PA 19101-8079


         VA Regional Office (242)
         1000 Liberty Avenue
         Pittsburgh PA 15222-4091

Philippines


         VA Regional Office
         1131 Roxas Blvd
         Manila 1000
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007        1257


Puerto Rico


      VA Regional Office
      GPO Box 364867
      San Juan PR 00936-4867


Rhode Island


      VA Regional Office (242)
      380 Westminster Mall
      Providence RI 02903-3244


South Carolina


      VA Regional Office
      1801 Assembly Street
      Columbia SC 29201-2401


South Dakota


      VA Regional Office
      P.O. Box 5046
      Sioux Falls SD 57117-5046


Tennessee


      VA Center (242)
      110 Ninth Avenue, South
      Nashville TN 37203-3867
1258                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Texas


        VA Regional Office (242)
        6900 Almeda Rd.
        Houston TX 77030


        VA Regional Office (242)
        One Veterans Plaza
        701 Clay Avenue
        Waco TX 76799-0001


Utah


        VA Regional Office (242)
        P.O. Box 11500
        Federal Bldg
        125 South State Street
        Salt Lake City UT 84147


Vermont


        VA Regional Office
        N. Hartland Rd.
        White River Junction VT 05009


Virginia


        VA Regional Office (242)
        210 Franklin Road SW
        Roanoke VA 24011-2204
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          1259


Washington


       VA Regional Office (242)
       Federal Building
       915 Second Avenue
       Seattle WA 98174-1060


West Virginia


       VA Regional Office
       640 4th Avenue
       Huntington WV 25701-1392


Wisconsin


       VA Regional Office (242)
       5000 W. National Ave. Bldg 6
       Milwaukee WI 53295


Wyoming


       VA Center (242)
       2360 East Pershing Blvd
       Cheyenne WY 82001-5392


NOTE: ZIP + 4 not available in all cases per United States Postal Service (USPS).
1260                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                  Attachment 6

                    TAXING AUTHORITY, CITY AND STATE


       Data Codes   Data Items            Explanations


          001       Alabama               Department of Revenue
                                          Income Tax Division
                                          Withholding Tax Section
                                          P O Box 327488
                                          Montgomery AL 36132


          002       Alaska                Not Required


          004       Arizona               Department of Revenue
                                          Withholding Division
                                          1600 W Monroe
                                          Phoenix AZ 85007


          005       Arkansas              Department of Finance and Administration
                                          Revenue Division
                                          PO Box 3628
                                          Little Rock AR 72203-3628


          006       California            Employment Development Department
                                          800 Capitol Mall
                                          Sacramento CA 95814


          008       Colorado              Department of Revenue
                                          State Capitol Annex
                                          1375 Sherman Street
                                          Denver CO 80261-0001


          009       Connecticut           Department of Revenue Services
                                          92 Farmington Avenue
                                          Hartford CT 06105
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    1261


     Data Codes    Data Items             Explanations



        010        Delaware               Division of Revenue
                                          820 N French Street
                                          Wilmington DE 19899-8995


        011        District of Columbia   Department of Finance and Revenue
                                          441 4th Street NW, Room 550
                                          Washington DC 20001


        012        Florida                Not Required


        013        Georgia                Department of Revenue
                                          Income Tax Division
                                          Withholding Unit
                                          Trinity-Washington Building
                                          P O Box 38067
                                          Atlanta GA 30334


        015        Hawaii                 Department of Taxation
                                          Income Tax Division
                                          PO Box 259
                                          Honolulu HI 96809


        016        Idaho                  State Tax Commission
                                          800 Park Plaza N
                                          P O Box 36
                                          Boise ID 83722-2301


        017        Illinois               Department of Revenue
                                          101 W Jefferson Street
                                          Springfield IL 62794


        018        Indiana                Department of Revenue
                                          Withholding Tax Section
1262                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       Data Codes   Data Items   Explanations


                                 Indiana Government Center
                                 North, Room 105
                                 100 N Senate Avenue
                                 Indianapolis IN 46204-2253


          019       Iowa         Department of Revenue and
                                 Finance
                                 Withholding Tax Processing
                                 Hoover State Office Building
                                 P O Box 10411
                                 Des Moines IA 50306-0411


          020       Kansas       Department of Revenue
                                 Division of Taxation
                                 Income and Inheritance Tax
                                 Bureau
                                 Robert B.Docking State Office
                                 Building
                                 Topeka KS 66612


          021       Kentucky     Revenue Cabinet
                                 Tax Policy Section
                                 Capital Annex Building
                                 Frankfort KY 40620


          022       Louisiana    Secretary of Revenue
                                 Department of Revenue
                                  and Taxation
                                 Withholding Division
                                 300 Ardenwood
                                 PO Box 9017
                                 Baton Rouge LA 70821-9017


          023       Maine        Bureau of Taxation
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                       1263


     Data Codes    Data Items      Explanations


                                   Income Tax Division
                                   State Office Bldg
                                   Augusta ME 04333


        024        Maryland        Comptroller of the Treasury
                                   Revenue Admin Division
                                   100 Carroll St
                                   Annapolis MD 21411


        025        Massachusetts   Department of Revenue
                                   Leverett Saltonstall Bldg
                                   100 Cambridge Street
                                   Boston MA 02204


        026        Michigan        Department of Treasury
                                   Sales, Use and Withholding
                                   Division
                                   Treasury Building
                                   430 W Allegan
                                   Lansing MI 48922


        027        Minnesota       Department of Revenue
                                   MW 5555
                                   P O Box 66117
                                   Ten River Park Plaza
                                   St. Paul MN 55166-0005


        028        Mississippi     State Tax Commission
                                   Income Tax Division
                                   PO Box 960
                                   Jackson MS 39205


        029        Missouri        Department of Revenue
                                   Withholding Tax Section
1264                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       Data Codes   Data Items      Explanations


                                    Truman State Office Bldg
                                    PO Box 3333
                                    Jefferson City MO 65105-3333


          030       Montana         Department of Revenue
                                    Business Tax Section
                                    Mitchell Building
                                    P O Box 5835
                                    Helena MT 59604-5835



          031       Nebraska        Department of Revenue
                                    State Office Bldg
                                    Box 94818
                                    Lincoln NE 68509-4818


          032       Nevada          Not required.


          033       New Hampshire   Not Required.


          034       New Jersey      Department of Treasury
                                    Division of Taxation
                                    50 Barrack St
                                    CN 240
                                    Trenton NJ 08646


          035       New Mexico      Revenue Processing Division
                                    Taxation and Revenue Dept
                                    PO Box 630
                                    Santa Fe NM 87504-0630


          036       New York        Department of Taxation
                                    and Finance
                                    Income Tax Bureau
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                      1265


     Data Codes    Data Items       Explanations


                                    Withholding Tax Unit
                                    Albany NY 12227-0125


        037        North Carolina   Department of Revenue
                                    PO Box 25000
                                    Raleigh NC 27640-0045


        038        North Dakota     State Tax Commissioner
                                    600 E Boulevard Avenue
                                    State Capitol Building
                                    Bismarck ND 58505-0554


        039        Ohio             Department of Taxation
                                    Income Tax Division
                                    P O Box 2476
                                    Columbus OH 43266-0076


        040        Oklahoma         Oklahoma Tax Commission
                                    Withholding Tax Division
                                    Oklahoma City OK 73194


        041        Oregon           Department of Revenue
                                    955 Center Street NE
                                    Salem OR 97310


        042        Pennsylvania     Department of Revenue
                                    Department 280414
                                    Harrisburg PA 17128-0414


        044        Rhode Island     Division of Taxation
                                    One Capital Hill
                                    Providence RI 02908


        045        South Carolina   Department of Revenue and
1266                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       Data Codes   Data Items      Explanations


                                    Taxation
                                    Income Tax Division
                                    PO Box 125
                                    Columbia SC 29214-0125


          046       South Dakota    Not required


          047       Tennessee       Not required


          048       Texas           Not required


          049       Utah            State Tax Commission
                                    210 North 1950 West
                                    Salt Lake City UT 84134


          050       Vermont         Department of Taxation
                                    P O Box 547
                                    Montpelier VT 05609


          051       Virginia        Department of Taxation
                                    Division of Income Tax
                                    Withholding
                                    PO Box 1115
                                    Richmond VA 23208-1115


          053       Washington      Not Required.


          054       West Virginia   Not Required.


          055       Wisconsin       Department of Revenue
                                    PO Box 8902
                                    Madison WI 53708-8933


          056       Wyoming         Not required
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                             1267


       Data Codes         Data Items                 Explanations



           097            Not Listed                 Member is foreign national
                                                     cadet or midshipman.


           098            Undesignated               Member must designate a
                                                     legal residence within 30 days.


           099            Not Listed                 Member is legal resident of
                                                     another country


NOTE: ZIP + 4 not available in all cases per USPS.
1268                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                     Attachment 7

                        MISCELLANEOUS, INDEBTEDNESS TYPE


Data Items                     Explanations                            Data Codes


Arrears in Money Accounts      Indebtedness to the United States           A
                               incurred by an accountable member
                               for failure to account for funds
                               entrusted to him or her (DS)


Bankruptcy Acts Debts          Indebtedness adjudicated under              B
                               Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Act
                               (Public Law 95-598) under which a
                               court order has been issued per a
                               voluntary request of a member. (DS)


Clothing Issue Charge          Indebtedness to the United States for       C
                               clothing issues. (DS)


SF 1219 Receivables            Indebtedness to the FSO for double          D
                               payments (substitute check and
                               original both cashed by member),
                               dishonored checks, and check issue
                               overdrafts. (DS)


Hospital Bill                  Indebtedness to the United States for       E
                               unpaid hospital bills for medical
                               services. (DS)


Base Exchange                  Indebtedness to the base exchange           F
                               (used by AAFES/NEXCARD). (DS)


Temporary Lodging Allowance    Indebtedness for overpayments of            G
(TLA)                          TLA that was not paid via the
                               DJMS-AC TLA subsystem. (DS)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                            1269


Data Items                      Explanations                             Data Codes


TSP Catch-Up                    A member must be in pay status and           H
                                must be contributing, either the
                                maximum TSP contribution
                                percentage of basic pay, or an
                                amount which will result in his or her
                                reaching the IRS deferral limit by the
                                end of the relevant year. The
                                member must be at least 50 years old
                                in the year the catch-up contributions
                                are made.


Base Housing                    Indebtedness for base housing                J
                                appropriated funds. (Use code "M"
                                for base housing non-appropriated
                                fund debts.) (DS)


Telephone and Utility Bills     Indebtedness to the United States for        K
                                failure to pay telephone and utility
                                charges. (DS)


Uncollected Check, Commissary   Indebtedness of a member of the Air          L
                                Force to a commissary for an
                                uncollected check. (DS)


Non-Appropriated Fund           Indebtedness for non-appropriated            M
Indebtedness                    fund activities and Navy and Marine
                                Corps Exchanges. See code F for
                                AAFES debts. (DS)


Tax Levy                        Indebtedness established by the              N
                                Internal Revenue Service by a notice
                                of levy. (DS)


Repay Travel Advance or Repay   Indebtedness to the United States for        P
Travel Costs                    advance or excess travel allowances
                                or otherwise unauthorized cost of
                                transportation for a member or
                                dependents. (DS)
1270                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Data Items                            Explanations                            Data Codes


GPLD/ROS                              Indebtedness for government                 Q
                                      property lost or damaged/report of
                                      survey (DS)


Household Goods--Excess Cost for Indebtedness (when other than the                R
Weight or House Trailer Excess Cost military pay appropriation is cited) to
                                    the United States for excess weight in
                                    shipment of household goods or
                                    excess costs of moving a house
                                    trailer. (DS)


Stipend, All                          Indebtedness to the United States for       S
                                      compensation received from state,
                                      county, municipal, or privately
                                      owned hospitals by a medical officer
                                      for medical services performed there,
                                      including stipend debts for Air Force
                                      Reserve officers now on active duty.
                                      (DS)


Salary Offset                         Indebtedness for salary offsets (DS)        T


Tuition Assistance                    Indebtedness to the United States for       U
                                      repayment of tuition assistance or
                                      defaulted student loan. (DS)

Miscellaneous                         Indebtedness for all other types not        V
                                      covered in data codes 1 through 4 and
                                      A through U. (DS)


Meal Collection                       Indebtedness for meals (DS)                 9
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1271


                                            Attachment 8

                          ALLOTMENT CLASS, PAY AND FLASH CODES

                       (ALOTMT-CLASS-PAY) (ALOTMT-FLASH-CODE)

A8.1. ALOTMT-CLASS-PAY is the data item that identifies the general purpose of the allotment and is
the second position of the allotment format ID. Rules for processing allotments are established based on
the allotment class.


DATA ITEMS                           EXPLANATIONS                             DATA CODES


Bond Allotment                       Purchase of United States                       B
                                     Savings Bonds.


Charity Allotment                    Donations to charity drives.                    C


Allotments to a spouse,              To provide allotments for spouse,               D
former spouse, or other              former spouse, children or other
dependents                           relatives not legally designated
                                     as dependents.


Charitable allotment to              Voluntary contribution to Air                   F
The Air Force Assistance             Force Aid Society.
Fund (AFAF)

Home Loan Allotment                  Repayment of home loans.                        H


Commercial Insurance                 Payment of commercial life                       I
Premium Allotment                    insurance premium.


Relief and Aid Repayment             Repay Navy Relief Society, Army                 L
Allotment                            Emergency Relief, Air Force Aid
                                     Society or American Red Cross.


Government Insurance                 Payment of National Service or                  N
Premium Allotment                    United States Government Life
1272                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


DATA ITEMS                            EXPLANATIONS                             DATA CODES


                                      Insurance Premium.


Individual Bank Account               Payment to banks or associations             S
Allotment                             for credit to checking or savings
                                      account of allotter.


Contributions to the                  Members' contributions to their              S
Veterans' Education                   own education.
Assistance Program
(VEAP)


United States Government              Payment of indebtedness to the               T
Indebtedness Allotment                United States.


Dependent Emergency                   Allotment to dependents under                X
Support Allotment                     emergency conditions only.

A8.2. ALOTMT-FLASH-CODE is used to stop allotments from processing.


EXPLANATION                                                             CODE


Indicates an active allotment account.                                    0


Indicates that a dependent allotment was                                  1
administratively
started and prevents a second class D allotment
transaction
from processing.


Indicates the member is separating as a                                   4
non-retiree.
Flag is set on first processing day of the month
of
separation.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                1273


EXPLANATION                                        CODE
Indicates the member is retiring. Flag is set on     5
the
10th calendar day of the month member is
retiring.
Allotments in effect are transferred to member's
retired account.
1274                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                             Attachment 9

                           CLOTHING ALLOWANCE, EXTRA TYPE


                                                                           DATA
                    DATA ITEMS and EXPLANATIONS                           CODES


Reserved                                                                   A


Maternity Uniform (Issue In-Kind prior to 1 June 1998)                      B


Reserved                                                                    C


Security Police--Combat Boots (Changed 10/1/85)                            D


Basic Military Training Instructors (AETC)                                  E


89 MAW Security Personnel                                                   F


Basic Military Training Instructors (USAF Prep School)
                                                                           G
Wing/Group Sergeant Major (USAF Academy Office of Commandant of Cadets)
                                                                           H
HQ AFCC/XORH (Hammer Ace) (Effective 1/1/93)                               J


Outstanding Airman of the Year                                             K


Recruiters                                                                  L


Security Police, Pentagon (Assigned to HQ USAF/CC)                         M


MAJCOM Security/Elite Guards                                               N


NCO PME Instructor                                                          P


Security Police--Gate Guard                                                Q
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  1275


                                                                                     DATA
                    DATA ITEMS and EXPLANATIONS                                     CODES



Bands:                                                                                R
 USAF Bands
 Air Force Academy Band
 Numbered Unit Air Force


Special Organizations or Functions Assigned to the Following Organizations or         S
Functions:
 (1) Enlisted Flight Crew on Scheduled Passenger Flights
 (2) Air Team USMLM Templehof Cen Aprt GE
 (3) USAF Orientation Group
 (4) A Single Designated Honor Guard Representing Each Major Command
 Except the USAF Honor Guard


Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force                                                Z


Maternity Uniform/Clothes (Pay Entitlement after 31 May 1998)                         8


Radio Maintenance (uniforms) - (restricted to personnel assigned to USAFA)            9


NOTE: The following data items and explanations require input to the Case
Management System (CMS) to report/cancel or correct supplementary clothing
allowances.
      (1) Duty as the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force Staff,
      (2) Members assigned to a Military Entrance Processing Station (MEPS),
      (3) On active duty and the individual’s condition requires the wearing of a
maternity uniform when the individual is provided, as Government issue,
maternity working uniforms (e.g. hospital workers), and
      (4) Duty as a Military Training Leader (Technical Training Schools)
1276                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              Attachment 10

                         COMPUTER PROCESSING CONTROL CODES

                                              (CNTRL-CODE)


CNTRL-CODE. This code indicates whether an entry is open, closed, canceled, or a non-pay entry. It is
essential you check these codes when determining what entitlements a member was due for any period of
time.


   CODE      DESCRIPTION


       0     Open entry in MMPA.


       1     Open MMPA entry suspended for indebtedness.


       2     Closed entry that affects pay.


       3     Entry used to correct an overpayment in a prior pay period. Used only when DFAS-DE
             makes the correction. (Note 1.)


       4     Entry used to correct an underpayment in a prior pay period. Used only when DFAS-DE
             makes correction. (Note 1.)


       5     MMPA entry used to cancel a prior transaction that results in recoupment of an entitlement
             that has been paid. Original computer processing code is changed to 5.


       6     Closed MMPA entry which was corrected and does not affect pay. For audit purposes only.


       9     Identifies a period of time that member did not have this MMPA entry in effect due to status.
             (Notes 2 and 3.)


NOTES:


1. Computer processing control codes 3 and 4 identify a corrective adjustment action. When months of
closure is no longer current, these entries are present for audit purposes only. To determine amount of
payment in a prior pay period, consider only entries with computer processing 0, 2, or 9 having dates
within the period being computed.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1277



2. When a member enters a status that does not allow an entitlement to pay, the entitlement is handled as
follows. If status is:


        a. Reported, the computer puts a closed entry for each affected entitlement on the MMPA. This
entry is treated as a period of non-entitlement and is subtracted from the entitlement to determine the
amount the member is due. These entries are commonly referred to as 9 entries and contain the following
information:


               (1) FORMAT ID of the entitlement.


               (2) ENTRY-CLSD-DT of the update the report transaction processed.


               (3) CNTRL-CODE 9.


               (4) ACTN, computer generated action indicator with last digit of "3" for the status that is
being reported.


               (5) START, equal to start date of the status.


               (6) STOP, equal to stop date of the status.


               (7) MNTLY-RATE or DAILY-RATE the rate at which the period of non-entitlement is
computed.


        b. START--the computer puts an open 9 entry on the record and suspenses the open entitlement
entry by building a closed entry with an Update Cycle Number of 42 (indicating the entry to be restored
at the end of the non-pay status). The open 9 entry is the same as the closed 9 entry in paragraph a above
except:


               (1) No entry closed data code is present.


               (2) ACTN, computer generated action indicator with last digit of "1" for the status that is
open.
1278                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


               (3) No stop date is present.


       c. STOP--the computer closes the 9 entry on the record and restores the entitlement entry by
removing the closed entry with an Update Cycle Number of 42. The closed 9 entry is the same as the
closed 9 report entry except:


               (1) The ENTRY-CLSD-DT is the update in which the transaction processed and the entry
closed.


               (2) ACTN, computer generated action indicator with last digit of "2" for the status being
stopped.


               (3) STOP is the actual date of the discontinuance of the status.


3. A 9 entry is also used to pay leave rations to enlisted personnel for leave. In this case, a closed 9 entry
is put on the record for each leave reported. This entry gives member leave rations and acts as a period of
non-entitlement to any open or closed BAS entry.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1279


                                           Attachment 11

                                      ENTRY OPEN DATA (EOD)

                                         (ENTRY-OPEN-DT)

A11.1. The ENTRY-OPEN-DT is an 11 position packed code that was created to identify when an
MMPA entry was originally created or when the latest change to an MMPA entry occurred. All MMPA
fixed and variable open entries will contain an EOD.
   A11.1.1. The EOD field contains the following data:


           Position 1-6         Processing Date (YYMMDD).


           Position 7-8         Update Cycle Number. In addition to the normal update
                                number, three special JUMPS update indicators were
                                created and are used as follows:
                                97 - identifies all entries that were converted in Phase 1.
                                98 - identifies all entries created by month-end restructure
                                (MER).
                                99 - identifies entries that were created by mass rate.


           Position 9-10        Processing Month.


           Position 11          Prior to mid-month flag (1) and after mid-month flag (2).

A11.2. An example of an EOD is as follows: a 3501 is input on calendar date 8 March 1989, processing
date is 9 March 1989, update number 03-10, processing month March 1989 (03), and after mid-month
cutoff. The EOD appeared on the MMPA as: 89030910032.

A11.3. For conversion purposes for Phase 1, if the MMPA entry was in the fixed or variable open areas,
the EOD for the entries converted on the MMPA contain the following:


           Position 1-6         Processing date of conversion.


           Position 7-8         97.


           Position 9-10        04.


           Position 11          1.
1280                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           Attachment 12

                                  ENTRY CLOSED DATA (ECD)

                                        (ENTRY-CLSD-DT)

A12.1. The ENTRY-CLSD-DT is an 11 position packed code that was created to identify when an
MMPA entry was closed. All MMPA current month closed and history entries will contain an EOD and
ECD. When an MMPA entry closes, the original EOD will be retained and an ECD will be built based on
the date/update/flag the MMPA went into history.
   A12.1.1. The ECD fields contain the following data:


           Position 1-6         Processing Date (YYMMDD).

           Position 7-8         Update Cycle Number. In addition to the normal update
                                number, three special DJMS update indicators were created
                                and are used as follows:
                                97 - identifies all entries that were converted in Phase 1.
                                98 - identifies all entries created by month-end-restructure
                                (MER).
                                99 - identifies entries that were created by mass rate.


           Position 9-10        Processing Month.


           Position 11          Prior to mid month flag (1) and after mid month flag (2).

A12.2. An example of an ECD is as follows: a 3502 is input on calendar day 10 April 1989, processing
date is 10 April 1989, update number 04-11, processing month April 1989 (04), and after mid month cut-
off. The ECD appeared on the MMPA as: 89041011042.

A12.3. For conversion purposes for Phase 1, if MMPA entry was in the history area, the ECD for the
entries converted on the MMPA contained zeros and the ECD contained the following:


           Position 1-6         Processing date of conversion (YYMMDD).


           Position 7-8         08, or the update number that was converted from the
                                second position of the closure process code. For example,
                                MMPA had a closure processed code of BF; this was
                                converted to 06.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                           1281


        Position 9-10   The processing month was converted from the first position
                        of the closure processed code. For example: MMPA had a
                        closure processed code of KC; this was converted to 11.


        Position 11     1.
1282                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                          Attachment 13

                     COMPUTER OPEN STATUS ENTRIES, NUMBER OF
                           (CMPTR-OPEN-STAT-ENTRY-NR)

                                               AND

                               STATUS DETERMINANT CODES
                                    (STATS-DETRMNT)

A13.1. CMPTR-OPEN-STAT-ENTRY-NR. This code is used to identify the number of open status
entries that are in the MMPA and to identify a bad condition of an MMPA. This code is part of the SX
entry.


  DATA CODE       DATA ITEM                   EXPLANATION


       1 thru 5   Number open status entries The number identifies the number of open status
                                             entries in the MMPA.


          6       Frozen MMPA                 Identifies MMPA as frozen so only payment
                                              transactions and DFAS-DE unique transactions
                                              can
                                              be processed against the MMPA.


          7       Garbled (Bad) MMPA          Identifies MMPA that has had data dropped or
                                              garbled. Only format ID 98 transactions can be
                                              processed against a garbled MMPA.


          8       Out-of-Balance MMPA         Identifies an MMPA in which the details do not
                                              add up to the totals.


          0       Delete MMPA                 Identifies an MMPA that can be inquired against
                                              but not processed against.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   1283


A13.2. STATS-DETRMNT. This code is used to identify member's status for pay purposes.


  DATA CODE      DATA ENTRY                EXPLANATION


       A         On station                Member physically located at and performing
                                           duty
                                           at permanent duty station or temporary duty
                                           station.


       B         Leave                     Member may be on Terminal (P), Appellate
                                           (R),
                                           or Excess (A) leave. Result of an SB01
                                           transaction.


       H         Permanent Change of       Member on orders to move from one
                 Station                   permanent
                                           duty station to another permanent duty station.


        J        Absent Without Leave      Member absent from place of duty without
                                           permission or authorization and without the
                                           intention of deserting.


       K         Confined                  Member imprisoned by civil or military
                                           authorities.
                                           For confinement types see Attachment 13.

       M         Missing                   Member officially declared to be missing,
                                           missing
                                           in action, under the Missing Person Act,
                                           interned
                                           in a foreign country, captured, beleaguered,
                                           besieged by hostile force, or detained in a
                                           foreign
                                           country against his or her will.


       P         Deserted                  Member administratively declared a deserter or
                                           convicted of desertion by court martial.
1284                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


  DATA CODE       DATA ENTRY                   EXPLANATION



        T         Suspended Status             Member's status is suspended because there is
                                               doubt whether his/her military status is valid or
                                               member is in the process of being separated but
                                               has not been put in a separated status.


        U         Mentally Incompetent         Member has been officially declared mentally
                                               incompetent.


        V         Separated                    Member is separated from the Air Force.


NOTE: A data code Z identifies a new social security number for a member. The Z will be computer
generated at the time the member's SSN changes and is entered into the pseudo status entry of the mem-
ber's auxiliary MMPA. The Z is followed by the new SVC-MBR-SSAN. The auxiliary MMPA is used to
relate the member's old and new social security number.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                 1285


                                     Attachment 14

                           CONFINEMENT TYPE CODES


  DATA CODE     DATA ITEM                            EXPLANATION


       1        Confinement by Civil Authorities     Confinement by United States or
                                                     foreign civil authorities.



       2        Confinement for Civil Authorities as Confinement by military or civil
                a Witness                            authorities as a civil witness.

       3        Military Confinement Awaiting        Confinement by military authorities
                Investigation or Court-Martial       awaiting investigation or trial by
                                                     court- martial.


       4        Military Confinement, Sentenced      Confinement by military authorities
                                                     while serving a court-martial
                                                     sentence.


       5        Military Confinement for Foreign     Confinement by military authorities
                Civil Offense Pending Charge or      for a foreign civil offense before
                Indictment                           charge or indictment.


       6        Military Confinement for Foreign     Confinement by military authorities
                Civil Offense – Indicted             for a foreign civil offense after
                                                     having been charged or indicted by
                                                     the foreign country.
1286                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           Attachment 15

       FEDERAL INCOME TAX WITHHOLDING (FITW) FOR WAGES PAID BEGINNING
                     IN JANUARY OF CALENDAR YEAR 2006.
                  SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE (FICA), AND
             ADVANCED EARNED INCOME CREDIT (EIC) PAYMENT RATES
                    (BASED ON MONTHLY PAYROLL PERIOD)


FITW


A. Withholding allowance--subtract $275.00 for each exemption claimed by the member.


B. If member is single or head of household, and


      WAGES ARE                   THEN THE AMOUNT OF INCOME TAX TO BE WITHHELD IS
  OVER BUT     NOT                        THE            PLUS          TIMES THE
                       OVER                 SUM OF              RATE                   EXCESS
                                                                                        OVER


       $0                  $221                    $0               0%                        $0
     $221                  $833                    $0              10%                      $221
     $833                $2,687                $61.20              15%                      $833
   $2,687                $6,104               $339.30              25%                    $2,687
   $6,104               $13,054             $1,193.55              28%                    $6,104
  $13,054               $28,200             $3,139.55              33%                   $13,054
  $28,200            AND OVER               $8,137.73              35%                   $28,200
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1287



C. If member is married, and


       WAGES ARE                   THEN THE AMOUNT OF INCOME TAX TO BE WITHHELD IS
  OVER  BUT      NOT                        THE           PLUS          TIMES THE
                        OVER                  SUM OF                 RATE                  EXCESS
                                                                                            OVER


        $0                 $667                      $0                   0%                        $0
      $667               $1,908                      $0                  10%                      $667
    $1,908               $5,670                 $124.10                  15%                    $1,908
    $5,670              $10,575                 $688.40                  25%                    $5,670
   $10,575              $16,288               $1,914.65                  28%                   $10,575
   $16,288              $28,629               $3,514.29                  33%                   $16,288
   $28,629           AND OVER                 $7,586.82                  35%                   $28,629


FICA


Taxable wage base for Old Age Survivors and Disability Insurance (a.k.a. Social Security or FICA) is
$94,200 at a withholding rate of 6.2%. Additionally, all Medicare income is taxed at the rate of 1.45%.
The combined rate for FICA and Medicare is 7.65%.


EIC


EIC is based on gross wages, and does not require the deduction for withholding allowances. Advance
EIC payments apply only to employees eligible for the credit. Eligibility requirements are shown on
Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate. For 2005, maximum wage amount is
$32,001 and maximum advance EIC payment is $1,648. The following tables are the percentage method
used by DJMS to compute advance EIC payments:
1288                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


A. If member is single, or married without the spouse filing a form W-5:


AMOUNT OF WAGES BEFORE                                       AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IS:
DEDUCTING WITHHOLDING
ALLOWANCES:
        OVER     BUT NOT OVER


                 0                     $673                  20.40% OF WAGES
              $673                   $1,234                  $137
            $1,234               $99,999.99                  $137 LESS 9.588% OF WAGES IN
                                                                  EXCESS OF $1,234




B.     If member is married, and both spouses file a form W-5:


AMOUNT OF WAGES BEFORE                                       AMOUNT OF PAYMENT IS:
DEDUCTING WITHHOLDING
ALLOWANCES:
        OVER     BUT NOT OVER


                 0                     $336                  20.40% OF WAGES
              $336                     $700                  $69
              $700               $99,999.99                  $69 LESS 9.588% OF WAGES IN
                                                                 EXCESS OF $700




NOTE: FITW information is also available for inquiry through DJMS on-line access as Table 073. FICA
(Social Security and Medicare) information is also available for inquiry through DJMS on-line Table 072,
EIC Information is available for inquiry through DJMS on-line Table 094.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                    1289


                                    Attachment 15B


                   GENERAL STATE INCOME TAX INFORMATION


                                                                One-Time
                              State             Military       Entitlement
                             Income            Pay Taxed        Tax Rate
       State      Code         Tax                               (Note 3)


Alabama(AL)        01         YES                    YES           3%


Alaska(AK)         02         NO                     NO            0%


                   03    NOT USED


Arizona(AZ)        04         YES             YES (Note 6)   SAME % AS SITW


Arkansas(AR)       05         YES                    YES           7%


California(CA)     06         YES              YES(Note 1)     6% (Note 3)


                   07    NOT USED


Colorado(CO)       08         YES                    YES          4.6%

Connecticut(CT)    09         YES             YES (Note 2)        4.5%


Delaware(DE)       10         YES                    YES          5.6%


District of        11         YES                    YES           4%
 Columbia(DC)


Florida(FL)        12         NO                     NO            0%


Georgia(GA)        13         YES                    YES           4%
1290                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                        One-Time
                              State     Military       Entitlement
                             Income    Pay Taxed        Tax Rate
        State       Code       Tax                       (Note 3)



                     14    NOT USED


Hawaii(HI)           15       YES        YES               4%


Idaho(ID)            16       YES     YES (Note 1)     7.8% (Note 3)


Illinois(IL)         17       YES         NO               0%


Indiana(IN)          18       YES        YES               3.4%


Iowa(IA)             19       YES        YES               6%


Kansas (KS)          20       YES        YES               5%


Kentucky (KY)        21       YES        YES               4%


Louisiana(LA)        22       YES        YES               3%


Maine(ME)            23       YES        YES               5%


Maryland(MD)         24       YES        YES               4.8%


Massachusetts(MA)    25       YES        YES               5.3%


Michigan(MI)         26       YES         NO               0%


Minnesota(MN)        27       YES     NO (Note 1)          6.3%


Mississippi(MS)      28       YES        YES               4%
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           1291


                                                      One-Time
                              State     Military     Entitlement
                             Income    Pay Taxed      Tax Rate
      State        Code        Tax                     (Note 3)


Missouri(MO)        29        YES     YES (Note 2)    6%(Note 3)


Montana(MT)         30        YES     YES (Note 5)       0%


Nebraska(NE)        31        YES        YES             5%


Nevada(NV)          32        NO          NO             0%


New                 33        NO          NO             0%
Hampshire(NH)


New Jersey(NJ)      34        YES     YES (Note 2)    2% (Note 3


New Mexico(NM)      35        YES        YES             8.2%


New York(NY)        36        YES     YES (Note 2)   7.4% (Note 3)


No. Carolina(NC)    37        YES        YES             6%


North Dakota(ND)    38        YES     YES (Note 6)       3.9%

Ohio(OH)            39        YES     YES (Note 7)       3.5%


Oklahoma(OK)        40        YES        YES             7%


Oregon(OR)          41        YES     NO (Note 2)    9% (Note 3)


Pennsylvania(PA)    42        YES     YES (Note 1)   2.8% (Note 3)


Puerto Rico (PR)    43        YES     YES (Note 4)       20%
1292                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                           One-Time
                                 State     Military       Entitlement
                                Income    Pay Taxed        Tax Rate
       State          Code        Tax                       (Note 3)


Rhode Island (RI)      44        YES        YES              7.1%


South Carolina (SC)    45        YES        YES               7%



South Dakota(SD)       46        NO          NO               0%


Tennessee(TN)          47        NO          NO               0%


Texas(TX)              48        NO          NO               0%


Utah(UT)               49        YES        YES              6.5%


Vermont(VT)            50        YES     YES (Note 1)        6.5%


Virginia(VA)           51        YES        YES               4%


                       52     NOT USED


Washington(WA)         53        NO          NO               0%


West Virginia(WV)      54        YES     YES (Note 5)         0%


Wisconsin(WI)          55        YES        YES              4.6%


Wyoming(WY)            56        NO          NO               0%


                      57-96   NOT USED
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1293


                                                                                One-Time
                                     State                Military             Entitlement
                                    Income               Pay Taxed              Tax Rate
       State          Code            Tax                                        (Note 3)


Foreign                97
National Cadet


Member has not         98
designated their
state if legal
residence


Foreign                99
country resident



NOTES:
  1. The military pay of a member who is NOT residing in his or her state of legal residence is not
     taxed. There are no deductions for state income tax withholding (SITW) from the member's pay.
   2. The military pay of a member from CT, MO, NY, NJ, or OR, who meet the conditions of the
      "Three-Prong Test", is not taxed. The member must certify within 30 days of his or her PCS
      arrival (New York or New Jersey only) to prevent deductions of SITW from his or her pay. Mem-
      bers claiming MO, NJ, NY, or OR need only complete the DD Form 2058-1, and members claim-
      ing Connecticut need to complete the CT-W4 one time, to prevent withholding of SITW.
   3. If a member is not residing in his or her state of legal residence and no deduction is currently
      being made for SITW from the normal monthly pay, no SITW is deducted from one-time entitle-
      ments. This applies to members outlined in notes 1 and 2.
   4. The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, Public Law No. 105-34, amended 5 U.S.C. § 5517 to autho-
      rized the Department of the Treasury and Puerto Rico to enter into a tax withholding agreement.
      The agreement was executed November 17, 1997, and is effective January 1, 1998. Military
      members who claim the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico as their state of legal residence will have
      taxes withheld as follows:
       a. No federal income tax, only state income tax withheld, when duty station is outside the United
          States (U.S.). Tax will be computed based on tax rate table.
       b. Federal income tax, with no state income tax, will be withheld when duty station is within the
          United States.
       c. Members stationed within Puerto Rico will have only state income tax withheld.
1294                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   5. Montana and West Virginia tax withholding only applies to guard and reserve members. Active
      duty member’s pay is not subject to taxation.
   6. The state of Arizona and North Dakota compute SITW as a percentage of federal income tax
      withholding (FITW) for regular payroll. Arizona uses the percentage chosen by the member for
      SITW for one time withholding and North Dakota uses 14% of FITW for one time withholding
      (this equates to approximately 3.9%)
   7. Members who claim the state of Ohio as their state of legal residence, maintain at least one abode
      outside the state during the entire tax year, maintain no permanent place of abode in Ohio during
      the tax year, and do not have more than 120 contact periods in the state during the tax year can
      claim exempt from SITW. A contact period is defined as an overnight trip away from the mem-
      ber’s abode outside Ohio, if the member spends at lease a portion of two consecutive days in Ohio
      while away overnight.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1295


                                               ALABAMA
                                            State Code: 01
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                     Amendment Date: 1 Mar 1992
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 3 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct.


      a. For single: $166.67 or 20 percent of the current month federal taxable wages, whichever is less.
For married: $333.33 or 20 percent of current federal taxable wages, whichever is less.


       b. Current month FITW deduction.


       c. Exemptions (Monthly)


         Married or single with 0 exemptions =      $   0
         Single with 1 exemption =                  $125
         Married with 1 exemption =                 $250
         Dependents other than spouse (ea) =        $ 25


Note: Single with more than 1 exemption = $125 + 25 for each exemption over 1. Married with more
than 1 exemption = $250 + $25 for each exemption over 1.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction using the following table based on result from step 2.
1296                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                 SINGLE


              If the amount of the                    Then the amount of tax to withhold is:
                     wages are:


       Over                 But Not Over                                        Of Excess Over
          $ 0.00                $ 41.67                          0%                        $ 0.00
             41.67                208.33                         2%                         41.67
            208.33                250.00                         4%                        208.33
            250.00              and over                         5%                        250.00


                                                 MARRIED


               If the amount of the                       Then the amount of tax to withhold is:
                      wages are:


       Over                       But Not Over                                  Of Excess Over
          $ 0.00                      $ 83.33                     0%                       $ 0.00
             83.33                      416.66                    2%                        83.33
            416.66                      500.00                    4%                       416.66
            500.00                    and over                    5%                       500.00
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                1297


                                              ALASKA
                                         State Code: 02


State income tax law excludes military pay.
1298                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                             ARIZONA
                                           State Code: 04
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Feb 1991
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                          One-time entitlements are taxed at percentage of
                         Federal withholding elected by member for SITW


One time entitlements are taxed at percentage elected for SITW.


Withholding from military members is mandatory effective in September 1993.


        a. Members with gross annual incomes of $15,000 or more may have Arizona tax withheld at
either 18%, 21%, 23%, 29%, or 34% of federal withholding.


        b. Members with gross annual incomes of less than $15,000 may have Arizona tax withheld at
either 10%, 18%, 21%, 23%, 29% or 34% of federal withholding.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1299


                                             ARKANSAS
                                            State Code: 05
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1981
                                      Amendment Date: 1 Jan 1999
                               One-time entitlements taxed at 7 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages x 12 = annual taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct.


       a. Military exclusion of $6,000


       b. Standard Deduction of $2,000.


Step 3. Compute the gross annual SITW deduction from table based on amount computed in step 2
above.


                                             SITW TABLE


               If the amount of the                           Then the amount of tax is:
                     wages is:
       Over                 But Not Over                                            Of Excess Over
          $ 0.00                $ 3,000                       $0.00 + 1.0%                 $ 0.00
             3,000                 6,000                      30.00 + 2.5%                   3,000
             6,000                 9,000                     105.00 + 3.5%                   6,000
             9,000                15,000                     210.00 + 4.5%                   9,000
            15,000                25,000                     480.00 + 6.0%                  15,000
            25,000              and over                   1,080.00 + 7.0%                  25,000


Step 4. Reduce the gross tax computed above in step 3 by the following tax credit. This result is the net
annual SITW deduction.
1300                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Personal Tax Credits:


       Multiply the number of exemptions times $20.00 = personal tax credit.


       Subtract the personal tax credit amount from the Gross Tax.


Step 5. Divide the result from step 4 the net annual SITW by 12. The result is the monthly SITW deduc-
tion.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1301


                                            CALIFORNIA
                                          STATE CODE: 06
                                   Implementation Date: 1 Feb 1978
                                     Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                              One-time entitlements are taxed at 6 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. If monthly federal taxable wage is less than $818 for single members, or less than $818 for mar-
ried members claiming less than 2 exemptions, or less than $1,631 for married members claiming 2 or
more exemptions, no tax will be withheld. If these limits are exceeded, go to step 3.


Step 3. Deduct the standard deduction:
              Single - $247
              Married claiming less than 2 exemptions - $247
              Married claiming 2 or more exemptions - $493


Step 4. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on the result from step 3.


                                               SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 480                           $ 0.00 + 1.0%                $ 0
               480              1,136                             4.80 + 2.0%                 480
             1,136              1,792                           17.92 + 4.0%                1,136
             1,792              2,488                           44.16 + 6.0%                1,792
             2,488              3,144                           85.92 + 8.0%                2.488
             3,144           and over                          138.40 + 9.3%                3,144
1302                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                       Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                 Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 960                             $0.00 + 1.0%                $ 0
               960              2,272                              9.60 + 2.0%                 960
             2,272              3,584                            35.84 + 4.0%                2,272
             3,584              4,976                            88.32 + 6.0%                3,584
             4,976              6,288                           171.84 + 8.0%                4,976
             6,288           and over                           276.80 + 9.3%                6,288


Step 5. Deduct from the result of step 4 the following additional credit for exemptions. The result is the
monthly SITW deduction.


                   EXEMPTIONS CLAIMED                             AMOUNT


                                  0                                  $0.00
                                  1                                   6.58
                                  2                                  13.17
                                  3                                  19.75
                                  4                                  26.33
                                  5                                  32.92
                                  6                                  39.50
                                  7                                  46.08
                                  8                                  52.67
                                  9                                  59.25
                                 10                                  65.83


NOTE: If exemptions are greater than 10, multiply $6.25 times number of exemptions over 10 and add
to the exemption amount for 10 exemptions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1303


                                            COLORADO
                                           State Code: 08
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Aug 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2001
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 4.6 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $237.50.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table based on the result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 138                           $0.00 + 0.00%                $ 0
               138           and over                           0.00 + 4.63%                 138


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 513                           $0.00 + 0.00%                $ 0
               513           and over                           0.00 + 4.63%                 513
1304                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           CONNECTICUT
                                           STATE CODE: 09
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jan 1992
                                     Amendment Date: 1 Jul 2000
                            One time entitlements are taxed at 4.5 percent


Step 1. Multiply the current month federal taxable wages x 12 = annual taxable wages.


Step 2. Determine member’s filing status; Single or Married.


Step 3. Take the annual federal wages (result of step 1) minus exemption allowed in Table A.


Step 4. Compute initial annual withholding amount:


        Single: Take annualized taxable income (result of step 3) and multiply by 0.03 if amount is less
than or equal to $10,000. If the amount (result of step 3) is greater than $10,000, multiply 0.045 by the
excess over $10,000 and add $300. This equals annualized withholding.


        Married: Take annualized taxable income (result of step 3) and multiply by 0.03 if amount is less
than or equal to $20,000. If the amount (result to step 3) is greater than $20,000, multiply 0.045 by the
excess over $20,000 and add $600. This equals annualized withholding.


Step 5. Take annual salary and filing status (step 1 and step 2) to determine credit percentage allowed in
Table B.


Step 6. Multiply annualized withholding (step 4) by 1 minus credit percentage (step 5).


Step 7. Divide step 6 result by 12, this will equal your monthly withholdings. (See the following pages)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     1305


                               EXEMPTIONS: TABLE - A


          FILING STATUS - SINGLE                 FILING STATUS - MARRIED


    Annual Salary           Exemption        Annual Salary         Exemption


 More         Less Than                   More         Less Than
 Than         or Equal to                 Than     Or Equal to
      0 -       24,500        12,250           0 -   48,000          24,000
 24,500 -       25,500        11,250      48,000 -   49,000          23,000
 25,500 -       26,500        10,250      49,000 -   50,000          22,000
 26,500   -    27,500          9,250      50,000   -    51,000       21,000
 27,500   -    28,500          8,250      51,000   -    52,000       20,000
 28,500   -    29,500          7,250      52,000   -    53,000       19,000
 29,500   -    30,500          6,250      53,000   -    54,000       18,000
 30,500   -    31,500          5,250      54,000   -    55,000       17,000
 31,500   -    32,500          4,250      55,000   -    56,000       16,000
 32,500   -    33,500          3,250      56,000   -    57,000       15,000
 33,500   -    34,500          2,250      57,000   -    58,000       14,000
 34,500   -    35,500          1,250      58,000   -    59,000       13,000
 35,500   -    36,500            250      59,000   -    60,000       12,000
 36,500       and above            0      60,000   -    61,000       11,000
                                          61,000   -    62,000       10,000
                                          62,000   -    63,000        9,000
                                          63,000   -    64,000        8,000
                                          64,000   -    65,000        7,000
                                          65,000   -    66,000        6,000
                                          66,000   -    67,000        5,000
                                          67,000   -    68,000        4,000
                                          68,000   -    69,000        3,000
                                          69,000   -    70,000        2,000
                                          70,000   -    71,000        1,000
                                          71,000   -   And above          0
1306                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                               CREDIT PERCENTAGE: TABLE - B


         FILING STATUS - SINGLE               FILING STATUS - MARRIED


       Annual Salary      Credit %                  Annual Salary       Credit %


  More        Less Than                            More    Less Than
   Than  Or Equal To                                Than  Or Equal to
 $12,250  $15,300             75%                 $24,000  $30,000          75%
  15,300   15,800             70%                  30,000   30,500          70%
  15,800   16,300             65%                  30,500   31,000          65%
  16,300   16,800             60%                  31,000   31,500          60%
  16,800   17,300             55%                  31,500   32,000          55%
  17,300   17,800             50%                  32,000   32,500          50%
  17,800   18,300             45%                  32,500   33,000          45%
  18,300   18,800             40%                  33,000   33,500          40%
  18,800   20,400             35%                  33,500   40,000          35%
  20,400   20,900             30%                  40,000   40,500          30%
  20,900   21,400             25%                  40,500   41,000          25%
  21,400   21,900             20%                  41,000   41,500          20%
  21,900   25,500             15%                  41,500   50,000          15%
  25,500   26,000             14%                  50,000   50,500          14%
  26,000   26,500             13%                  50,500   51,000          13%
  26,500   27,000             12%                  51,000   51,500          12%
  27,000   27,500             11%                  51,500   52,000          11%
  27,500   49,000             10%                  52,000   96,000          10%
  49,000   49,500              9%                  96,000   96,500           9%
  49,500   50,000              8%                  96,500   97,000           8%
  50,000   50,500              7%                  97,000   97,500           7%
  50,500   51,000              6%                  97,500   98,000           6%
  51,000   51,500              5%                  98,000   98,500           5%
  51,500   52,000              4%                  98,500   99,000           4%
  52,000   52,500              3%                  99,000   99,500           3%
  52,500   53,000              2%                  99,500  100,000           2%
  53,000   53,500              1%                 100,000  100,500           1%
  53,500  and over             0%                 100,500  and over          0%
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1307


                                            DELAWARE
                                           State Code: 10
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jan 1993
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2000
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 5.6 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages and multiply by 12.


Step 2. Deduct applicable amount for standard deduction:


              Single - $3,250
              Married - $6,500


              The result is taxable annual wages.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table based on results from step 2.


                                            SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 2,000                           $0.00 + 0.00%               $ 0
             2,000              5,000                            0.00 + 2.20%               2,000
             5,000             10,000                           66.00 + 3.90%               5,000
            10,000             20,000                          261.00 + 4.80%              10,000
            20,000             25,000                          741.00 + 5.20%              20,000
            25,000             60,000                        1,001.00 + 5.55%              25,000
            60,000           and over                        2,943.50 + 5.95%              60,000


Step 4. Multiply the number of personal exemptions by $110.00.


Step 5. Subtract the total amount for personal exemptions (Step 4) from the computed tax (Step 3).


Step 6. Divide results from Step 5 by 12. The result is the monthly SITW deduction.
1308                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                    DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
                                           State Code: 11
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Aug 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2001
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct the number of exemptions times $114.17. The result is monthly wages.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table based on the result from step 2.


                                           SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00              $ 166.66                           $0.00 + 0.0%             $ 0.00
            166.66              833.33                            0.00 + 5.0%              166.66
            833.33           2,500.00                           33.33 + 7.5%               833.33
         2,500.00             and over                         150.00 + 9.0%             2,500.00
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                    1309


                              FLORIDA
                             State Code: 12


No state income tax.
1310                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                             GEORGIA
                                           State Code: 13
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                     Amendment Date: 1 Jan 1999
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct:


       a. Standard deduction:


              -- Married = $250.00
              -- Single = $191.50


       b. Exemptions:


              $225 times the number of exemptions claimed


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00               $ 62.50                              $0.00 + 1%            $ 0.00
             62.50             187.00                               0.62 + 2%               62.50
            187.00             312.00                               3.12 + 3%              187.00
            312.00             437.00                               6.87 + 4%              312.00
            437.00             583.00                              11.87 + 5%              437.00
            583.00           and over                              19.17 + 6%              583.00
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               1311


                                       MARRIED


      If the amount of the wages is:             Then the tax to withhold is:
     Over          But Not Over                                       Of Excess Over
       $ 0.00               $ 83.00                     $0.00 + 1%            $ 0.00
           83.00             250.00                      0.83 + 2%               83.00
          250.00             417.00                      4.17 + 3%              250.00
          417.00             583.00                      9.17 + 4%              417.00
          583.00             833.00                     15.83 + 5%              583.00
          833.00           and over                     28.33 + 6%              833.00
1312                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              HAWAII
                                           State Code: 15
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month Federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct the number of exemptions claimed times $86.65.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table based on the result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 167                           $0.00 + 1.40%                $ 0
               167                333                           2.34 + 3.20%                  167
               333                667                           7.65 + 5.50%                  333
               667              1,000                          26.02 + 6.40%                  667
             1,000              1,333                          47.33 + 6.80%                1,000
             1,333              1,667                          69.97 + 7.20%                1,333
             1,667           and over                          94.02 + 7.60%                1,667


                                            MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 333                           $0.00 + 1.40%                $ 0
               333                667                           4.66 + 3.20%                  333
               667              1,333                          15.35 + 5.50%                  667
             1,333              2,000                          51.98 + 6.40%                1,333
             2,000              2,667                          94.67 + 6.80%                2,000
             2,667              3,333                         140.03 + 7.20%                2,667
             3,333           and over                         187.98 + 7.60%                3,333
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1313


                                               IDAHO
                                           State Code: 16
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2001
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 7.8 percent


Step 1. Take the current month Federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $241.67.


Step 3. Compute the monthly deduction from the appropriate table based on result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 1               $ 138                            $0.00 + 0.0%                $ 0
               138                226                             0.00 + 1.6%                 138
               226                314                             1.00 + 3.6%                 226
               314                402                             5.00 + 4.1%                 314
               402                490                             8.00 + 5.1%                 402
               490                578                           13.00 + 6.1%                  490
               578                798                           18.00 + 7.1%                  578
               798              1,898                           34.00 + 7.4%                  798
             1,898           and over                          115.00 + 7.8%                1,898
1314                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                         MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:             Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                       Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 517                   $0.00 + 0.0%                $ 0
               517                693                    0.00 + 1.6%                 517
               693                869                    3.00 + 3.6%                 693
               869              1,045                    9.00 + 4.1%                 869
             1,045              1,221                  16.00 + 5.1%                1,045
             1,221              1,397                  25.00 + 6.1%                1,221
             1,397              1,837                  36.00 + 7.1%                1,397
             1,837              4,038                  67.00 + 7.4%                1,837
             4,038           and over                 230.00 + 7.8%                4,038
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                1315


                                              ILLINOIS
                                         State Code: 17


State Income tax law excludes military pay.
1316                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                             INDIANA
                                           State Code: 18
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Aug 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 May 1988
                             One-time entitlements taxed at 3.4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct.


       a. Military exclusion of $166.67.


       b. Number of exemptions claimed times $83.34.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction by taking the result of step 2 times 3.4%.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1317


                                                  IOWA
                                             State Code: 19
                                    Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                      Amendment Date: 1 Jul 1998
                              One-time entitlements are taxed at 6 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages times 12.


Step 2.


          a. Deduct the current month FITW deduction times 12. The result is taxable wages.


          b. Deduct $1,500 if claiming 0 or 1 exemption; or $3,600 if claiming 2 or more exemptions.


Step 3. Compute the yearly SITW deduction from the following table based on the result from step 2.


                                              SITW TABLE


           If the amount of the wages is:                     Then the tax to withhold is:
          Over          But Not Over                                               Of Excess Over
                $ 0              $ 1,100                          $0.00 + 0.36%               $ 0
                1,100              2,150                           3.96 + 0.72%               1,100
                2,150              4,300                          11.52 + 2.43%               2,150
                4,300              9,750                          63.77 + 4.86%               4,300
                9,750             16,250                         328.64 + 6.53%               9,750
               16,250             22,000                         753.09 + 6.98%              16,250
               22,000             33,000                       1,154.44 + 7.52%              22,000
               33,000             49,000                       1,981.64 + 8.42%              33,000
               49,000           and over                       3,328.84 + 8.98%              49,000


Step 4. Divide the result by 12. This is the monthly SITW deduction.
1318                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              KANSAS
                                           State Code: 20
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 1999
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 5 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct the number of exemptions claimed times $187.50.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the following table based on results from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 250                           $0.00 + 0.00%                $ 0
               250              1,500                           0.00 + 3.50%                  250
             1,500              2,750                          43.75 + 6.25%                1,500
             2,750           and over                         121.88 + 6.45%                2,750


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 500                           $0.00 + 0.00%                $ 0
               500              3,000                           0.00 + 3.50%                  500
             3,000              5,500                          87.50 + 6.25%                3,000
             5,500           and over                         243.75 + 6.45%                5,500
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1319


                                            KENTUCKY
                                            State Code: 21
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                    Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2001
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages x 12.


Step 2. Deduct: Dollar exclusion of $1,750.00.


Step 3. Compute the annual SITW from table based on the results from step 2.


                                            SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                       Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                 Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 3,000                             $ 0.00 + 2%                $ 0
             3,000              4,000                               60.00 + 3%               3,000
             4,000              5,000                               90.00 + 4%               4,000
             5,000              8,000                             130.00 + 5%                5,000
             8,000           and over                             280.00 + 6%                8,000


Step 4. From the result of step 3 deduct an additional amount of $20 for each Tax Credit claimed.


Step 5. Divide the results from step 4 by 12. This is the monthly SITW deduction.
1320                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            LOUISIANA
                                           State Code: 22
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Sep 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Dec 1984
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 3 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct:


   Single - $375.00 plus $83.33 for each exemption.


   Married - $750.00 plus $83.33 for each exemption over 1.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table based on the result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00              $ 416.67                                       2%           $ 0.00
            416.67            and over                             $8.33 + 3%              416.67


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00            $ 1,250.00                                       2%           $ 0.00
         1,250.00            and over                            $25.00 + 3%             1,250.00
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1321


                                                MAINE
                                            State Code: 23
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Nov 1977
                                    Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 5 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages times 12.

Step 2. Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $2,850.

Step 3. Compute the annual SITW deduction from the appropriate table, based on result from step 2.


                                               SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                       Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                 Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 1,850                           $ 0.00 + 0.0%                $ 0
             1,850              6,050                              0.00 + 2.0%               1,850
             5,050             10,200                            84.00 + 4.5%                6,050
            10,200             18,550                           271.00 + 7.0%               10,200
            18,550           and over                           856.00 + 8.5%               18,550


                                              MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                       Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                 Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 5,000                            $ 0.00 + 0.0%               $ 0
             5,000             13,400                              0.00 + 2.0%               5,000
            13,400             21,700                            168.00 + 4.5%              13,400
            21,700             38,400                            542.00 + 7.0%              21,700
            38,400           and over                          1,711.00 + 8.5%              38,400


Step 4. If the amount derived from Step 3 is $40 or less, change the withholding amount to zero. If the
amount derived from Step 3 is more than $40, proceed to Step 5.


Step 5. Divide the tax amount computed in Step 3 by 12 and round to nearest dollar. This is the monthly
SITW deduction.
1322                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           MARYLAND
                                          State Code: 24
                                Implementation Date: 1 Aug 1977
                                  Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2001
                          One-time entitlements are taxed at 4.8 percent


Step 1. Determine current month Federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct:


       a. 15 percent of current month Federal taxable wages (minimum $125.00; maximum $167.00)


       b. Exemptions claimed times $175.00.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the following table based on the result from step 2.


                                           SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                     Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                               Of Excess Over
             $ 0                $ 83                         $ 0.00 + 2.00%                $ 0
                83                167                          1.66 + 3.00%                  83
               167                250                          4.18 + 4.00%                 167
               250           and over                          7.50 + 4.80%                 250
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    1323


                                        MASSACHUSETTS
                                           State Code: 25
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Aug 1977
                                    Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 5.3 percent


Step 1. Determine current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct:


         a. Current FICA deduction. (Maximum $166.67.)


         b. One exemption = $367.


         c. Two or more exemptions = $83 per exemption plus $284.


          d. Spouse counts as “4” exemptions. Example: an employee who claims only himself and his
wife is treated as having “5” exemptions (i.e., 5 X 83 + 284 = $699.00).


Step 3. Multiply result from step 2 x .053 to obtain the monthly SITW deduction.


NOTE: Do not withhold from employees who claim one or more exemptions if their monthly wages are
less than $667.00.


NOTE: Do not withhold from employees who validly claim exemption from withholding on U.S. Form
W-4.
1324                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                          MICHIGAN
                                         State Code: 26


State income tax law excludes military pay.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1325


                                            MINNESOTA
                                           State Code: 27
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Nov 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 6.3 percent


Step 1. Take the current month Federal taxable wages and multiply by 12.


Step 2. Multiply the number of exemptions claimed times $3,000.


Step 3. Compute the annual SITW deduction from the table below based on the results from step 2.


                                               SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
          $      0            $ 1,700                       $ 0.00 + 0.00%               $      0
             1,700             20,410                            0.00 + 5.35%               1,700
            20,410             63,160                        1,001.00 + 7.05%              20,410
            63,160           And over                        4,015.00 + 7.85%              63,160


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 4,850                          $ 0.00 + 0.00%               $ 0
             4,850             32,200                            0.00 + 5.35%               4,850
            32,200            113,510                        1,463.00 + 7.05%              32,200
          113,510            and over                        7,196.00 + 7.85%            113,510


Step 4. Divide the result of step 3 by 12. Round to the nearest dollar. This is the monthly SITW deduc-
tion.
1326                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                             MISSISSIPPI
                                            State Code: 28
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jun 1978
                                    Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2000
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages x 12 = annual taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct:


       a. $2,300 if single or $4,600 if married.


       b. Exemptions:


              Single with 0 or 1 exemption = $6,000
              Single with more than 1 exemption = $6,000 plus $1,500 for each exemption over 1


              Married with 0, 1, or 2 exemptions = $12,000
              Married with more than 2 exemptions = $12,000 plus $1,500 for each exemption over 2


Step 3. Compute the annual SITW deduction from the table based on the result from step 2.


                                             SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                       Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                 Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 5,000                             $ 0.00 + 3%                $ 0
             5,000             10,000                             150.00 + 4%                5,000
            10,000           and over                             350.00 + 5%               10,000


Step 4. Divide result from step 3 by 12. The result is the monthly SITW deduction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1327


                                             MISSOURI
                                         STATE CODE: 29
                                   Implementation Date: 1 Jan 1993
                                    Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                            One time entitlements are taxed at 6 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct:
       a. Standard deduction
              - Single - $391.67
              - Married - $654.17
       b. Exemptions
              - Single - $100 for each exemption.
              - Married - $100 for each exemption.
       c. Federal income tax withholding (FITW)
              - Single - lesser of FITW for pay period or $416.67
              - Married - lesser of FITW for pay period or $833.33


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table below based on the results from Step 2 and
round up and down to the next whole dollar.


        If the amount of the wages is:                     Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                               Of Excess Over
             $ 0                $ 84                          $ 0.00 + 1.5%                $ 0
                84                168                            1.26 + 2.0%                 84
               168                252                            2.94 + 2.5%                168
               252                336                            5.04 + 3.0%                252
               336                420                            7.56 + 3.5%                336
               420                504                          10.50 + 4.0%                 420
               504                588                          13.86 + 4.5%                 504
               588                672                          17.64 + 5.0%                 588
               672                756                          21.84 + 5.5%                 672
               756           and over                          26.46 + 6.0%                 756
1328                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



                                            MONTANA
                                           State Code: 30
                                Implementation Date: 30 Apr 1986
                                  Amendment Date: 28 Oct 1994
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 0 percent


NOTE: This table applies only to guard and reserve members, and does not apply to active duty
members.


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct $141.67 times number of exemptions claimed.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW from the table below based on the result from step 2.


                                           SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 686                           $ 0.00 + 2.6%                $ 0
               686              1,521                           17.83 + 4.4%                  686
             1,521              3,333                           54.57 + 6.1%                1,521
             3,333           and over                          165.13 + 6.5%                3,333
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1329


                                            NEBRASKA
                                           State Code: 31
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 1998
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 5 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.

Step 2. Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $124.17.

Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on the result from step 2.

                                              SINGLE

        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 183                          $ 0.00 + 0.00%                $ 0
               183                367                           0.00 + 2.49%                  183
               367              1,292                           4.58 + 3.47%                  367
             1,292              1,896                          36.68 + 5.32%                1,292
             1,896              2,342                          68.81 + 6.57%                1,896
             2,342              4,508                          98.11 + 6.98%                2,342
             4,508              6,258                         249.30 + 7.22%                4,508
             6,258           and over                         375.65 + 7.36%                6,258


                                             MARRIED

        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 438                          $ 0.00 + 0.00%                $ 0
               438                688                           0.00 + 2.49%                  438
               688              1,867                           6.23 + 3.47%                  688
             1,867              2,950                          47.14 + 5.32%                1,867
             2,950              3,579                         104.76 + 6.57%                2,950
             3,579              4,854                         146.09 + 6.98%                3,579
             4,854              6,271                         235.09 + 7.22%                4,854
             6,271           and over                         337.40 + 7.36%                6,271
1330                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                         NEVADA
                       State Code: 32


No state income tax.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                     1331


                             NEW HAMPSHIRE
                              State Code: 33


No state income tax.
1332                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           NEW JERSEY
                                           State Code: 34
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 1996
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 2 percent


Step 1. Take the current month Federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct the number of exemptions claimed x $83.30.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on the result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 1,666                          $ 0.00 + 1.5%                $ 0
             1,666              2,916                           24.99 + 2.0%                1,666
             2,916              3,333                           49.99 + 3.9%                2,916
             3,333              6,250                           66.25 + 6.1%                3,333
             6,250           and over                          244.19 + 7.0%                6,250


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 1,666                          $ 0.00 + 1.5%                $ 0
             1,666              4,166                           24.99 + 2.0%                1,666
             4,166              5,833                           74.99 + 2.7%                4,166
             5,833              6,666                          120.00 + 3.9%                5,833
             6,666             12,500                          152.49 + 6.1%                6,666
            12,500           and over                          508.36 + 7.0%               12,500
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1333


                                          NEW MEXICO
                                           State Code: 35
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                          One-time entitlements are taxed at 8.2 percent


Step 1. Take the current month Federal taxable wages.

Step 2. Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $241.67.

Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on result from step 2.

                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 138                           $ 0.00 + 0.0%                $ 0
               138                596                             0.00 + 1.7%                 138
               596              1,054                             7.79 + 3.2%                 596
             1,054              1,471                           22.46 + 4.7%                1,054
             1,471              2,304                           42.04 + 6.0%                1,471
             2,304              3,638                           92.04 + 7.1%                2,304
             3,638              5,554                          186.71 + 7.9%                3,638
             5,554           and over                          338.13 + 8.2%                5,554


                                            MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 392                           $ 0.00 + 0.0%                $ 0
               392              1,058                             0.00 + 1.7%                 392
             1,058              1,725                           11.33 + 3.2%                1,058
             1,725              2,392                           32.67 + 4.7%                1,725
             2,392              3,725                           64.00 + 6.0%                2,392
             3,725              5,725                          144.00 + 7.1%                3,725
             5,725              8,725                          286.00 + 7.9%                5,725
             8,725           and over                          523.00 + 8.2%                8,725
1334                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            NEW YORK
                                         STATE CODE: 36
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 1997
                           One time entitlements are taxed at 7.4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct:


 a. Number of exemptions claimed X $83.30.


 b. Deduction allowance: Single     $581.25
                       Married      $622.90


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table based on the result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                    Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                              Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00              $ 667.00                       $ 0.00 + 4.00%              $ 0.00
            667.00              917.00                       26.67 + 4.50%                667.00
            917.00           1,083.00                        37.92 + 5.25%                917.00
         1,083.00            1,667.00                        46.67 + 5.90%              1,083.00
         1,667.00            7,500.00                        81.08 + 6.85%              1,667.00
         7,500.00            8,333.00                       480.67 + 7.64%              7,500.00
         8,333.00           12,500.00                       544.33 + 8.14%              8,333.00
        12,500.00             and over                      883.67 + 7.35%             12,500.00
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                1335


                                       MARRIED


      If the amount of the wages is:             Then the tax to withhold is:
     Over          But Not Over                                       Of Excess Over
       $ 0.00              $ 667.00                $ 0.00 + 4.00%              $ 0.00
          667.00              917.00                26.67 + 4.50%                667.00
          917.00           1,083.00                 37.92 + 5.25%                917.00
       1,083.00            1,667.00                 46.67 + 5.90%              1,083.00
       1,667.00            7,500.00                 81.08 + 6.85%              1,667.00
       7,500.00            8,333.00                480.67 + 7.64%              7,500.00
       8,333.00           12,500.00                544.33 + 8.14%              8,333.00
      12,500.00             and over               883.67 + 7.35%             12,500.00
1336                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           NORTH CAROLINA
                                             State Code: 37
                                   Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                     Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                             One-time entitlements are taxed at 6 percent

Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wage.

Step 2. Deduct:

      Single: If monthly wages are less than $5,000, take the number of exemption times $208.33, or if
monthly wages are greater than or equal to $5,000, take the number of exemptions times $166.67.

        Married: If monthly wages are less than $4,166.67, take the number of exemptions times $208.33,
or if monthly wages are greater than or equal to $4,166.67, take the number of exemptions times $166.67.

Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction based on the tables.


                                               SINGLE


          If the amount of the wages is:                   Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over        But Not Over                                                  Of Excess Over
        $ 0.00          $ 250.00                          0.00%                             $0
          250.00         1,312.50                         6.00%        less               15.00
        1,312.50         5,250.00                         7.00%        less               28.13
        5,250.00       10,250.00                          7.75%        less               67.50
       10,250.00         and over                         8.25%        less              118.75


                                              MARRIED


          If the amount of the wages is:                   Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over        But Not Over                                                  Of Excess Over
        $ 0.00          $ 229.17                          0.00%                             $0
          229.17         1,114.58                         6.00%        less               13.75
        1,114.58         4,395.83                         7.00%        less               24.90
        4,395.83         8,562.50                         7.75%        less               57.86
        8,562.50         and over                         8.25%        less              100.68
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1337


                                         NORTH DAKOTA
                                           State Code: 38
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jan 1988
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 3.9 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Multiply number of allowances by $250.00 and deduct this amount from Step 1.


Step 3. Determine the amount of monthly withholding using the following tables.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00              $ 267.00                          $ 0.00 + 0.00%             $ 0.00
            267.00           2,471.00                            0.00 + 2.10%               267.00
         2,471.00            5,158.00                           46.28 + 3.92%             2,471.00
         5,158.00           11,913.00                          151.61 + 4.34%             5,158.00
        11,913.00           25,729.00                          444.78 + 5.04%            11,913.00
        25,729.00             and over                       1,141.11 + 5.54%            25,729.00


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00              $ 654.00                          $ 0.00 + 0.00%             $ 0.00
            654.00           4,296.00                            0.00 + 2.10%               654.00
         4,296.00            8,558.00                           76.48 + 3.92%             4,296.00
         8,558.00           14,733.00                          243.55 + 4.34%             8,558.00
        14,733.00           25,992.00                          511.55 + 5.04%            14,733.00
        25,992.00             and over                       1,079.00 + 5.54%            25,992.00
1338                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



                                               OHIO
                                           State Code: 39
                             Implementation Date: 1 September 1978
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jun 1987
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 3.5 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct the number of exemptions claimed x $54.17.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table based on the result from step 2.


                                           SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
         $ 0.00              $ 416.66                        $ 0.00 + 0.808%             $ 0.00
            416.66              833.32                         3.37 + 1.615%               416.66
            833.32           1,249.98                         10.10 + 3.230%               833.32
         1,249.98            1,666.64                         23.55 + 4.038%             1,249.98
         1,666.64            3,333.28                         40.38 + 4.845%             1,666.64
         3,333.28            6,666.56                        121.13 + 5.653%             3,333.28
         6,666.56            8,333.20                        309.56 + 6.460%             6,666.56
         8,333.20             and over                       417.22 + 8.075%             8,333.20
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1339


                                           OKLAHOMA
                                           State Code: 40
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Sep 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 7 percent


Determine whether member is single, married/head of household, and the number of exemptions individ-
ual is claiming. Make appropriate calculations based on the following instructions:


                                        SINGLE (ANNUAL)


Take the current month Federal taxable wage times 12.


        a. If gross annual wages are less than or equal to $22,560, calculate TAX TABLE INCOME with
the following steps:


              1. GROSS WAGES - (EXEMPTIONS X $1,000).


             2. SUBTRACT from the number calculated in (1) the larger of $1,000 or 15% GROSS
WAGES, not to exceed $2,000.


              3. Determine the larger of 0 OR [GROSS WAGES - (EXEMPTIONS X $3,000) minus
$4,700].


                     (a) If line 3 is less than $6,000 then multiply by 10%.


                     (b) If line 3 is greater than $6,000 then ((line 3 amount minus $6,000) X 15%) plus
$600.


           4. Subtract the number calculated in (4) from the number calculated in (2). This number
is TAX TABLE INCOME.


              5. Calculate ANNUAL WITHHOLDING AMOUNT from the single tax rate table.
1340                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


             6. After determining annual withholding amount, divide this result by 12 to determine
current month SITW deduction.


       b. If gross wages exceed $22,560 for a single person, calculate tax table income on the first
$22,560.


              1. GROSS WAGES - (EXEMPTIONS X $1,000).


             2. SUBTRACT from the number calculated in (1), the larger of $1,000 OR 15% GROSS
WAGES, not to exceed $2,000.


              3. Determine the larger of 0 OR [$22,560 - (EXEMPTIONS X $3,000) - $4,700].


                      (a) If line 3 is less than $6,000 multiply by 10%.


                      (b) If line 3 is greater than $6,000 then ((line 3 amount minus $6,000) X 15%) plus
$600.


           4. Subtract the number calculated in (4), from the number calculated in (2). This number
is TAX TABLE INCOME.


              5. Calculate annual withholding by performing the following steps:


                     (a) Calculate annual withholding from the single tax rate table using the tax table
income computed in (5).
                      (b) Calculate withholding on remainder of wages = 7.00% X (GROSS WAGES -
$22,560).


                      (c) Total withholding = amount from (6a) + amount from (6b).


             6. After determining annual withholding amount, divide this result by 12 to determine
current month SITW deduction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1341


                                SINGLE TAX RATE TABLE (ANNUAL)


IF TAX TABLE INCOME IS:                         WITHHOLDING AMOUNT IS:


             $ 0     $ 1,000                    $ 0.00 + .5%         over          $ 0
            1,000      2,500                      5.00 + 1%          over         1,000
            2,500      3,750                     20.00 + 2%          over         2,500
            3,750      4,900                     45.00 + 3%          over         3,750
            4,900      6,100                     79.50 + 4%          over         4,900
            6,100      7,500                    127.50 + 5%          over         6,100
            7,500      9,000                    197.50 + 6%          over         7,500
            9,000      10,500                   287.50 + 7%          over         9,000
           10,500      12,500                   392.50 + 8%          over        10,500
           12,500      16,000                   552.50 + 9%          over        12,500
           16,000   and above                  867.50 + 10%          over        16,000


                       MARRIED OR HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD (ANNUAL)


Take the current month Federal taxable wage times 12.


       a. If gross annual wages are less than or equal to $22,560, calculate tax table income by the
following procedure:


                1. GROSS WAGES - (EXEMPTIONS X $1,000).
             2. SUBTRACT from the number calculated in (1) the larger of $1,000 OR 15% x GROSS
WAGES, not to exceed $2,000.


                3. Determine the larger of 0 OR [GROSS WAGES - (EXEMPTIONS X $3,000) minus
$7,850].


                      (a) If line 3 is less than $12,000 then multiply by 10%.


                      (b) If line 3 is greater than 12,000 then ((line 3 amount minus $12,000) X 15%)
plus $1,200.
1342                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



           4. Subtract the number calculated in (4) from the number calculated in (2). This number
is TAX TABLE INCOME.


               5. Calculate ANNUAL WITHHOLDING AMOUNT from the married tax table.


             6. After determining annual withholding amount, divide this result by 12 to determine
current month SITW deduction.


         b. If gross wages exceed $22,560 for a married/head of household, calculate tax table income on
the first $22,560:
               1. GROSS WAGES - (EXEMPTIONS X $1,000).


             2. SUBTRACT from the number calculated in (b1) the larger of $1,000 or 15% X GROSS
WAGES, not to exceed $2,000.


               3. Determine the larger of 0 OR [$22.560 - (EXEMPTIONS X $3,000) minus $7,850].


                      (a) If line 3 is less than $12,000 multiply by 10%.


                      (b) If line 3 is greater than $12,000 than ((line 3 amount minus $12,000) X 15%)
plus $1,200.


           4. Subtract the number calculated in (b4) from the number calculated in (b2). This amount
is TAX TABLE INCOME.


               5. Calculate total withholding by performing the following procedure:


                       (a) Calculate annual withholding from the married tax rate table using the mar-
ried tax table income computed in (b5).


                      (b) TOTAL ANNUAL WITHHOLDING = 7.00% x (GROSS WAGES -
$22,560).


                      (c) Total annual withholding = amount from (6a) + amount from (6b).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    1343



             6. After determining annual withholding amount, divide this result by 12 to determine
current month SITW deduction.


                           MARRIED TAX RATE TABLE (ANNUAL)


IF TAX TABLE INCOME IS:                     WITHHOLDING AMOUNT IS:


          $ 0      $ 2,000                  $ 0.00 + .5%       over          $ 0
         2,000       5,000                    10.00 + 1%       over         2,000
         5,000       7,500                    40.00 + 2%       over         5,000
         7,500       8,900                    90.00 + 3%       over         7,500
         8,900      10,400                   132.00 + 4%       over         8,900
        10,400      12,000                   192.00 + 5%       over        10,400
        12,000      13,250                   272.50 + 6%       over        12,000
        13,250      15,000                   347.00 + 7%       over        13,250
        15,000      18,000                   469.50 + 8%       over        15,000
        18,000   and above                   709.50 + 9%       over        18,000
1344                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              OREGON
                                           State Code: 41
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Nov 1977
                                    Amendment Date: 1 Jul 2002
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 9 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct current month FITW (not to exceed $417).


Step 3. Apply dollar amount from step 2 to table.


                                               SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0                $ 23                             $ 0.00 + 0%                $ 0
                23                662                               0.00 + 7%                 23
               662           and over                              45.00 + 9%                662


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 219                             $ 0.00 + 0%                $ 0
               219              1,323                               0.00 + 7%                 219
             1,323           and over                              77.00 + 9%               1,323


Step 4. Take number of exemptions times $12.17. Deduct this amount from the result of step 3. This is
the monthly SITW deduction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                 1345


                                       PENNSYLVANIA
                                        State Code: 42
                               Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                               Amendment Date: 1 August 1992
                         One-time entitlements are taxed at 2.8 percent


Multiply the current month federal taxable wages by 2.8 percent. The result is the monthly SITW
deduction.
1346                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           PUERTO RICO
                                            State Code: 43
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jan 1998
                                    Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                             One time entitlements are taxed at 20 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct personal exemption as follows:


       a. Single - $108.50


       b. Married - $250.00


Step 3. Deduct the dependent exemptions as follows:


       a. Single: $108.50 times number of dependent exemptions.


       b. Married: Excluding the 1st dependent exemption, multiply number of dependents times
$108.50.


Step 4. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the table below based on the results from Step 3.


        If the amount of the wages is:                       Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over
         $       0          $ 166.50                       6.0 % of wages
            166.50           1,416.50                     9.0% of wages minus $       5.00
          1,416.50           2,500.00                     14.0% of wages minus        75.80
          2,500.00           4,167.00                     27.0% of wages minus       400.80
          4,167.00           and over                     33.0% of wages minus       650.80
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1347


                                         RHODE ISLAND
                                         STATE CODE: 44
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Aug 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One time entitlements are taxed at 7.1 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $250.00.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                    Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                              Of Excess Over
             $ 0                $ 221                        $ 0.00 + 0.00%               $ 0
               221              2,471                          0.00 + 3.75%                 221
             2,471              5,402                         84.38 + 7.00%               2,471
             5,402             11,913                        289.53 + 7.75%               5,420
            11,913             25,729                        794.12 + 9.00%              11,913
            25,729           and over                      2,037.62 + 9.90%              25,729


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                    Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                              Of Excess Over
             $ 0                $ 538                        $ 0.00 + 0.00%               $ 0
               538              4,296                          0.00 + 3.75%                 538
             4,296              9,142                        140.94 + 7.00%               4,296
             9,142             14,733                        480.15 + 7.75%               9,142
            14,733             25,992                        913.50 + 9.00%              14,733
            25,992           and over                      1,926.75 + 9.90%              25,992
1348                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                         SOUTH CAROLINA
                                           State Code: 45
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 1998
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 7 percent


Step 1. Take the current month Federal taxable wages, and multiply by 12.


Step 2. Deduct:


       a. Number of exemptions claimed times $2,300.00.


       b. Additional exemption credit:


              Single or married with 0 exemptions = $0


             Single or married with 1 or more exemptions = $2,600.00, or 10 percent of federal taxable
wages, whichever is less.


Step 3. Compute the annual SITW deduction from the table based on result from step 2.


                                           SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 2,000                            $ 0.00 + 2%                $ 0
             2,000              4,000                              40.00 + 3%               2,000
             4,000              6,000                            100.00 + 4%                4,000
             6,000              8,000                            180.00 + 5%                6,000
             8,000             10,000                            280.00 + 6%                8,000
            10,000           and over                            400.00 + 7%               10,000


Step 4. Divide result from step 3 by 12. This is the monthly SITW deduction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                     1349


                             SOUTH DAKOTA
                              State Code: 46


No state income tax.
1350                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                       TENNESSEE
                       State Code: 47


No state income tax.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                    1351


                                TEXAS
                             State Code: 48


No state income tax.
1352                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                               UTAH
                                           State Code: 49
                                 Implementation Date: 1 July 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 6.5 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Single or Married: Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $150.00.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on result from step 2.


                                              SINGLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 174                             $ 0 + 0.00%                $ 0
               192                264                               0 + 2.30%                192
               264                336                               2 + 3.10%                264
               336                407                               4 + 4.00%                336
               407                479                               7 + 4.90%                407
               479                551                              10 + 5.70%                479
               551           and over                              14 + 6.50%                551


                                             MARRIED


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 192                             $ 0 + 0.00%                $ 0
               192                336                               0 + 2.30%                192
               336                479                               3 + 3.10%                336
               479                623                               8 + 4.00%                479
               623                767                              14 + 4.90%                623
               767                911                              21 + 5.70%                767
               911           and over                              29 + 6.50%                911
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1353


                                             VERMONT
                                           State Code: 50
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Jan 1990
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jan 2002
                           One time entitlements are taxed at 6.5 percent


1. Take the current month Federal taxable wages.

2. Deduct number of exemptions claimed times $250.00.

3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the appropriate table based on result from step 2.

                                               SINGLE

        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0                $ 221                          $ 0.00 + 0.00%               $ 0
               221              2,471                            0.00 + 3.60%                 221
             2,471              5,402                           81.00 + 6.72%               2,471
             5,402             11,913                          277.96 + 7.44%               5,402
            11,913             25,729                          762.38 + 8.64%              11,913
            25,729           and over                        1,956.08 + 9.50%              25,729


                                             MARRIED

        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0                $ 538                          $ 0.00 + 0.00%               $ 0
               538              4,296                            0.00 + 3.60%                 538
             4,296              9,142                          135.29 + 6.72%               4,296
             9,142             14,733                          460.94 + 7.44%               9,142
            14,733             25,992                          876.91 + 8.64%              14,733
            25,992           and over                        1,849.69 + 9.50%              25,992


NOTE: Vermont is a must reside state. Withholding is based on federal taxable wages earned in the State
of Vermont.
1354                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              VIRGINIA
                                            State Code: 51
                                  Implementation Date: 1 Jul 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 17 Mar 1990
                            One-time entitlements are taxed at 4 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages times 12.


Step 2. Deduct:


       a. Standard deduction of $2,500.


       b. Number of exemptions times $800.


Step 3. Compute the annual SITW deduction from the table based on result from step 2.


                                            SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                       Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                 Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 3,000                          $ 0.00 + 2.00%                $ 0
             3,000              5,000                           60.00 + 3.00%                3,000
             5,000             17,000                          120.00 + 5.00%                5,000
            17,000           and over                          720.00 + 5.75%               17,000


Step 4. Divide result from step 3 by 12 to obtain the monthly deduction.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                    1355


                             WASHINGTON
                             State Code: 53


No state income tax.
1356                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                         WEST VIRGINIA
                                           State Code: 54
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Sep 1991


NOTE: This table applies only to guard and reserve members, and does not apply to active duty
members.


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages.


Step 2. Deduct $166.67 times the number of exemptions.


Step 3. Compute the monthly SITW deduction from the following table based on the results from Step 2.


                                           SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                      Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                                Of Excess Over
             $ 0               $ 833                           $ 0.00 + 3.0%                $ 0
               833              2,083                           24.99 + 4.0%                  833
             2,083              3,333                           74.99 + 4.5%                2,083
             3,333              5,000                          131.24 + 6.0%                3,333
             5,000           and over                          231.26 + 6.5%                5,000
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1357


                                            WISCONSIN
                                           State Code: 55
                                 Implementation Date: 1 Aug 1977
                                   Amendment Date: 1 Jul 2000
                           One-time entitlements are taxed at 4.6 percent


Step 1. Take the current month federal taxable wages times 12.


Step 2. Deduct:


       SINGLE


              If step 1 is less than $10,620: deduct $4,000.
              If step 1 is more than $10,620 but less than $43,953: deduct $4,000 minus 12 percent of
excess over $10,620.
              If step 1 equals $43,953 or more: deduct $0.00.


       MARRIED


              If step 1 is less than $14,950: deduct $5,500.
              If step 1 is more than $14,950 but less than $42,450: deduct $5,500 minus 20 percent of
excess over $14,950.
              If step 1 equals $42,450 or more: deduct $0.00.


Step 3. Multiply the number of exemptions claimed by $400 and subtract the result from the amount
determined in Step 2 above.


Step 4. Using the amount obtained in Step 3, compute the annual SITW deduction using the table below.
1358                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           SITW TABLE


        If the amount of the wages is:                    Then the tax to withhold is:
       Over          But Not Over                                              Of Excess Over
             $ 0              $ 7,970                        $ 0.00 + 4.60%               $ 0
             7,970             15,590                        366.62 + 6.15%               7,970
            15,590            115,140                        835.25 + 6.50%              15,590
          115,140            and over                      7,306.00 + 6.75%            115,140


Step 5. Divide the result from step 4 by 12 to obtain the monthly SITW withholding amount.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                    1359


                              WYOMING
                             State Code: 56


No state income tax.
1360                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            Attachment 16

           UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (USPS) OFFICIAL ABBREVIATIONS
                     FOR THE UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES,
                         AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

A16.1. Purpose. This attachment lists the two-position alpha codes recognized by the USPS as the offi-
cial abbreviations for the United States, its territories, and the District of Columbia.

A16.2. Use. Use these official abbreviations in general correspondence, for Defense Military Pay Sys-
tem-Active Component (DJMS-AC) documentation, or in DJMS-AC transactions.

A16.3. State Abbreviations. Authorized state postal abbreviations for the fifty states are:


State                     Abbreviation                   State                     Abbreviation


Alabama                         AL                       Maryland                       MD


Alaska                          AK                       Massachusetts                  MA


Arizona                         AZ                       Michigan                        MI


Arkansas                        AR                       Minnesota                      MN


California                      CA                       Mississippi                    MS


Colorado                        CO                       Missouri                       MO


Connecticut                     CT                       Montana                        MT


Delaware                        DE                       Nebraska                        NE


Florida                         FL                       Nevada                         NV


Georgia                         GA                       New Hampshire                  NH


Hawaii                          HI                       New Jersey                      NJ
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                        1361


State              Abbreviation   State            Abbreviation


Idaho                  ID         New Mexico           NM


Illinois                IL        New York             NY


Indiana                IN         North Carolina       NC


Iowa                   IA         North Dakota         ND


Kansas                 KS         Ohio                 OH


Kentucky               KY         Oklahoma             OK


Louisiana              LA         Oregon               OR


Maine                  ME         Pennsylvania         PA


Rhode Island           RI         Vermont              VT


South Carolina         SC         Virginia             VA


South Dakota           SD         Washington           WA


Tennessee              TN         West Virginia        WV


Texas                  TX         Wisconsin            WI


Utah                   UT         Wyoming              WY
1362                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


A16.4. Other Abbreviations. The official abbreviations for territories of the United States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia are:


Other                     Abbreviation                  Other                      Abbreviation


American Samoa                  AS                      Northern Mariana                MP
                                                        Islands



District of Columbia            DC                      Palau Islands (in Trust         PW
                                                        Territory of the Pacific
                                                        Islands)


Federated States of             FM                      Puerto Rico                     PR
Micronesia


Guam                            GU                      Virgin Islands                  VI


Marshall Islands               MH
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1363


                                            Attachment 17

                                  COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD
This attachment identifies the two-character, alpha codes contained in the DJMS tables for each of the
world's independent states and their dependencies, areas of special sovereignty or quasi-independence,
areas, without sovereign political regimes, not recognized by the US, and outlying areas of the United
States such as islands in dispute.


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                              Data Codes


AFGHANISTAN                                                                               AF


ALBANIA                                                                                   AL
 Blocked country.


ALGERIA                                                                                  AG


AMERICAN SAMOA                                                                           AQ
 United States territory.


ANDORRA                                                                                  AN


ANGOLA                                                                                   AO


ANGUILLA                                                                                  AV
 British dependent territory.


ANTARCTICA                                                                                AY
 The United States does not recognize sovereignty, but territorial limits
 may be noted by listing the claimed and unclaimed sectors: Argentina,
 Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and the United Kingdom.


ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA                                                                      AC


ARGENTINA                                                                                AR
1364                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                              Data Codes


ARMENIA                                                                 AM
 Formerly Armyanskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


ARUBA                                                                   AA
 Part of the Netherlands realm.


ASHMORE AND CARTIER ISLANDS                                             AT
 Australian Territory.


AUSTRALIA                                                               AS
 Includes Macquarie Island.


AUSTRIA                                                                 AU


AZERBAIJAN                                                              AJ
 Formerly Azerbaydzhanskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


BAHAMAS                                                                 BF
 Excludes the TURKS AND CAICOS ISLANDS (TK), a United Kingdom (UK)
colony.


BAHRAIN                                                                 BA

BAKER ISLAND                                                            FQ
 United States territory.


BANGLADESH                                                              BG


BARBADOS                                                                BB


BASSAS DA INDIA                                                         BS
 French possession.


BELARUS                                                                 BO
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  1365


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                        Data Codes


BELGIUM                                                                           BE


BELIZE                                                                            BH


BENIN                                                                             BN


BERMUDA                                                                           BD
 British colony.


BHUTAN                                                                            BT


BOLIVIA                                                                           BL


BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                            BK


BOTSWANA                                                                          BC



BOUVET ISLAND                                                                     BV
 Norwegian territory.


BRAZIL                                                                            BR
 Includes Atol das Rocas, Arquipelago de Fernando de Noronha,
 Ilha da Trinidade, Ilhas Martin Vaz, and Penedos de Sao Pedroe e Sao Paulo.


BRITISH INDIAN OCEAN TERRITORY                                                    IO
 British dependency comprised of Chagos Archipelago.


BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS                                                            VI
 Includes Anegada, Jost Van Dyke, Tortola, and Virgin Gorda.


BRUNEI                                                                            BX
 Became independent January 1, 1984.
1366                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                           Data Codes


BULGARIA                                                                             BU


BURKINA                                                                              UV
 Formerly UPPER VOLTA (UV).


BURMA                                                                                BM


BURUNDI                                                                              BY


CAMBODIA                                                                             CB
 Blocked country. Formerly known as Khmer Republic and Kampuchea.


CAMEROON                                                                             CM


CANADA                                                                               CA


CAPE VERDE                                                                           CV


CAYMAN ISLANDS                                                                       CJ
 British dependency including Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, and Little Cayman.


CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                             CT


CHAD                                                                                 CD


CHILE                                                                                CI
 Includes Isla de Pascua (Easter Island), Islas Juan Fernandez, Isla San Felix,
 and Isla Sala y Gomez.


CHINA                                                                                CH
 Also see TAIWAN (TW).


CHRISTMAS ISLAND                                                                     KT
 Australian dependency in the Indian Ocean.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              1367


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                    Data Codes


CLIPPERTON ISLAND                                                              IP
 French Possession.


COCOS (KEELING) ISLANDS                                                       CK
 Australian dependency.


COLOMBIA                                                                      CO
 Includes Archipielago de San Andreas y Providencia, Isla de Malpelo,
 Roncador Cay, Serrana Bank and Derranilla Bank.


COMOROS                                                                       CN


CONGO                                                                         CF


COOK ISLANDS                                                                  CW
 New Zealand associated state; includes the atolls of Pukapuka (Danger),
 Manahiki, Penrhyn, and Rakahanga. The treaty was ratified by the U.S.
 Senate in June 1993.


CORAL SEA ISLANDS                                                             CR
 Australian external territory.


COSTA RICA                                                                    CS
 Includes Isla del Coco.


COTE D'IVOIRE                                                                 IV
 Formerly called the Ivory Coast.


CROATIA                                                                       HR
 Formerly Hrvatska of Yugoslavia.


CUBA                                                                          CU
 Blocked country.
1368                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                           Data Codes


CYPRUS                                                                               CY


CZECH REPUBLIC                                                                       EZ
 Formerly part of Czechoslavakia.


DENMARK                                                                              DA
 Code DA pertains only to metropolitan Denmark, thereby excluding the
 FAEROE ISLANDS (FO) and GREENLAND (GL), which are overseas
 administrative divisions of Denmark.


DJIBOUTI                                                                             DJ


DOMINICA                                                                             DO
 Became independent on November 3, 1978.


DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                                   DR


ECUADOR                                                                              EC
 Includes Archipielago de Colon (Galapagos Islands).


EGYPT                                                                                EG


EL SALVADOR                                                                          ES


EQUATORIAL GUINEA                                                                    EK
 Comprises Rio Muni and the islands of Bioko (Fernando Po), Annobon,
 Corisco, and Islas de Elovey.


ERITREA                                                                              ER
 Eritrea announced its independence from Ethiopia on April 27, 1993. After this
 announcement, the United States recognized Eritrea as an independent state.


ESTONIA                                                                              EN
 Formerly Estanskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      1369


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                            Data Codes


ETHIOPIA                                                                              ET


EUROPA ISLAND                                                                         EU
 French possession.


FALKLAND ISLANDS (ISLAS MALVINAS)                                                     FK
 British dependency claimed by Argentina. Includes West Falkland and East
Falkland.


FAROE ISLANDS                                                                         FO
 Part of the Danish realm.


FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA                                                        FM
 A Compact of Free Association was signed by the United States and the Federated
 States of Micronesia which entered into full force and effect November 3, 1986.
 Comprised of the former Kosrae, Yap, Ponape, and Truk districts of the TRUST
 TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS (PS).


FIJI                                                                                   FJ
 Includes Viti Levu, Vanua Levu, and Rotuma islands.


FINLAND                                                                                FI

FRANCE                                                                                FR
 Code FR pertains only to metropolitan France, thereby excluding FRENCH
GUIANA (FG),
 FRENCH POLYNESIA (FP), FRENCH SOUTHERN AND ANTARCTIC
LANDS (FS),
 GUADELOUPE (GP), MARTINIQUE (MB), NEW CALEDONIA (NC),
REUNION (RE),
 SAINT PIERRE AND MIQUELON (SB), and WALLIS AND FUTUNA (WF), all
of which are overseas administrative divisions of France.


FRENCH GUIANA                                                                         FG
 Overseas department of France.
1370                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                              Data Codes



FRENCH POLYNESIA                                                                        FP
 Overseas territory of FRANCE (FR). Includes the Society Islands, Iles Tuamotu,
  Iles Marquises Islands, and the Iles Tubuai. Excludes CLEPPERTON ISLAND
(IP).


FRENCH SOUTHERN AND ANTARCTIC LANDS                                                     FS
 Overseas territory of FRANCE (FR). Includes Ile Amsterdam, Ile Saint-Paul, Iles
 Kerguelen and Iles Crozet. Terre Adelie (French-claimed sector of Antarctica) is
 not included in this entity but rather, see ANTARCTICA (AY). The U.S. does not
 recognize sovereignty in Antarctica, therefore Terre Adelie is excluded from this
 entity.


GABON                                                                                   GB


GAMBIA                                                                                  GA


GAZA STRIP                                                                              GZ
 Part of former Palestine mandate. Includes city of Gaza and environs. Bounded
 by the Mediterranean, Egypt, and Israel.


GEORGIA                                                                                 GG
 Formerly Gruzinskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.



GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF                                                            GM
 DJMS processing currently requires the code GE, not GM. GE comprises the
 Federal Republic of Germany, the former German Democratic Republic, and
 Berlin.


GHANA                                                                                   GH


GIBRALTAR                                                                               GI
 British colony.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   1371


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                         Data Codes



GLORIOSO ISLANDS                                                                   GO
 French possession.


GREECE                                                                             GR


GREENLAND                                                                          GL
 Overseas administrative division of DENMARK (DA).


GRENADA                                                                            GJ
 Includes the southern Grenadines.


GUADELOUPE                                                                         GP
 Overseas department of FRANCE (FR). Includes Grande-Terre, Basse-Terre, Iles
 des Saintes, Iles de la Petite Terre, La Desirade, Ile Saint-Barthelemy,
Marie-Galante, and northern Saint-Martin.


GUAM                                                                               GQ
 U.S. territory.


GUATEMALA                                                                          GT


GUERNSEY                                                                           GK
 British crown dependency.


GUINEA                                                                             GV


GUINEA-BISSAU, REPUBLIC OF                                                         PU


GUYANA                                                                             GY


HAITI                                                                              HA
1372                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                             Data Codes


HEARD ISLAND AND MCDONALD ISLANDS                                                      HM
 Australian external territory.


HONDURAS                                                                               HO


HONG KONG                                                                              HK
 British colony.


HOWLAND ISLAND                                                                         HQ
 U.S. territory.


HUNGARY                                                                                HU


ICELAND                                                                                IC


INDIA                                                                                  IN
 Includes the Amindiv, Cannanore, Andaman, and Nicobar Islands, Minicoy
 Island, Daman, Diu, Goa, and Sikkim.


INDONESIA                                                                              ID
 Includes Irian Jaya (West New Guinea) and the former Portuguese overseas
 province of Portuguese overseas province of Portuguese Timor with its exclave of
 Oe-Cusse.


IRAN                                                                                   IR


IRAQ                                                                                    IZ
 Blocked country.


IRELAND                                                                                 EI
 Excludes Northern Ireland.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1373


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                             Data Codes


ISRAEL                                                                                  IS
 Includes area within the armistice lines of 1949 and 1950, and the Israel-Jordan
 and the Israel-Syria demilitarized zones.


ITALY                                                                                   IT


JAMAICA                                                                                JM


JAN MAYEN                                                                              JN
 Insular administrative division of NORWAY (NO).


JAPAN                                                                                  JA
 Includes the Ryukyu, Bonin, and Volcano Islands and the islands of
 Minami-tori-shima, Nishino-Shima, and Okino-tori-shimi.



JARVIS ISLAND                                                                          DQ
 U.S. territory.


JERSEY                                                                                 JE
 British crown dependency.

JOHNSTON ATOLL                                                                         JQ
 U.S. territory.


JORDAN                                                                                 JO


JUAN DE NOVA ISLAND                                                                    JU
 French possession.


KAZAKHSTAN                                                                             KZ
 Formerly Kazakhskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.
1374                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                              Data Codes


KENYA                                                                                   KE


KINGMAN REEF                                                                            KQ
 U.S. territory.


KIRIBATI                                                                                KR
 The Governments of the United States and Kiribati signed a "Treaty of Friendship"
 on September 20, 1979. Under provisions of the treaty, the United States
 relinquishes its claims to the following islands: Birnie, Canton, Enderbury,
 Gardner, Hull, McKean, Phoenix, and Sydney in the Phoenix Islands; and
 Caroline, Christmas, Flint, Malden, Starbuck, and Vostok in the Line Islands. The
 treaty was ratified by the U.S. Senate in June 1983.


KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF                                                  KN
 Blocked country. Also known as "North Korea."


KOREA, REPUBLIC OF                                                                      KS


KUWAIT                                                                                  KU


KYRGYZSTAN                                                                              KG
 Formerly Kirgizskya SSR of the Soviet Union.


LAOS                                                                                    LA


LATVIA                                                                                  LG
 Formerly Latviyskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


LEBANON                                                                                 LE


LESOTHO                                                                                 LT


LIBERIA                                                                                  LI
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                   1375


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)         Data Codes



LIBYA                                              LY
 Blocked country.


LIECHTENSTEIN                                      LS


LITHUANIA                                          LH
 Formerly Litovskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


LUXEMBOURG                                         LU


MACAU                                              MC
 Portuguese administered territory.


MACEDONIA                                          MK
 Formerly Makedonija of Yugoslavia.


MADAGASCAR                                         MA


MALAWI                                             MI


MALAYSIA                                           MY


MALDIVES                                           MV


MALI                                               ML


MALTA                                              MT


MAN, ISLE OF                                       IM
 British Dependency.


MARSHALL ISLANDS                                   RM
.
1376                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                       Data Codes


MARTINIQUE                                                                       MB
 French overseas province


MAURITANIA                                                                       MR



MAURITIUS                                                                        MP
 Includes Rodriques and Diego Garcia islands; Agalega Islands; and Cargados
 Carajos Shoals.


MAYOTTE                                                                          MF
 Territory of France.


MEXICO                                                                           MX


MIDWAY ISLANDS                                                                   MQ
 U.S. territory.


MOLDOVA                                                                          MD
 Formerly Moldova SSR of the Soviet Union.


MONACO                                                                           MN

MONGOLIA                                                                         MG


MONTENEGRO                                                                       MW
 Blocked country. Formerly Crna Gora of Yugoslavia.


MONTSERRAT                                                                       MH
 British colony.


MOROCCO                                                                          MO
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1377


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                               Data Codes


MOZAMBIQUE                                                                               MZ


NAMIBIA                                                                                  WA
 International territory. Formerly South West Africa.


NAURU                                                                                    NR


NAVASSA ISLAND                                                                           BQ
 U.S. territory.


NEPAL                                                                                    NP


NETHERLANDS                                                                              NL
 Excluding Netherlands Antilles. Pertains only to the Netherlands in Europe.


NETHERLANDS ANTILLES                                                                     NT
 Part of the Netherlands realm. Includes Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius and
southern Saint Martin.
NEW CALEDONIA                                                                            NC
 Overseas terrritory of FRANCE (FR). Includes Ile des Pins, Iles Loyaute, Ile
Huon, Iles Belep, Iles Chesterfield and Ile Walpole.


NEW ZEALAND                                                                              NZ
 Includes Stewart Island, Chatham Islands, and Kermadec Islands.


NICARAGUA                                                                                NU
 Includes Islas del Maiz (Corn Islands).


NIGER                                                                                    NG


NIGERIA                                                                                  NI


NIUE                                                                                     NE
 New Zealand territory.
1378                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                            Data Codes



NORFOLK ISLAND                                                                        NF
 Australian external territory.


NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS                                                              CQ
 Commonwealth associated with the UNITED STATES (US).


NORWAY                                                                                NO
  Code NO pertains only to continental Norway, thereby excluding JAN MAYEN
(JN) and SVALBARD (SV), which are insular administrative divisions of Norway.


OMAN                                                                                  MU
 Includes Khuriyra Muriyra.


PAKISTAN                                                                              PK
 Includes Pakistani administered Jammu and Kashmir.


PALMYRA ATOLL                                                                         LQ
 U.S. territory.


PANAMA                                                                                PM
 Includes area formerly known as Canal Zone.

PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                                      PP
 Includes Bismarck Archipelago (Admiralty Islands, New Britain, New Ireland,
 etc.), Louisiade Archipelago, D'Entrecasteaux Islands, northern Solomon Islands
 (Bougainville, Buka Island, etc.), Trobriand Islands and Woodlark Island.




PARACEL ISLANDS                                                                       PF
 Disputed islands in the South China Sea.


PARAGUAY                                                                              PA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              1379


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                    Data Codes



PERU                                                                          PE


PHILIPPINES                                                                   RP


PITCAIRN ISLANDS                                                              PC
 British dependency. Includes Henderson Island, Ducie and Oeno Atolls.


POLAND                                                                        PL
 Includes Danzig and areas of 1937 Germany east of the Oder-Neisse Line.


PORTUGAL                                                                      PO
 Includes the Azores and Madeira Islands.


PUERTO RICO                                                                   RQ
 Commonwealth associated with the UNITED STATES (US).


QATAR                                                                         QA



REUNION                                                                       RE
 Overseas department of FRANCE (FR). Excludes BASSAS DA INDIA (BS),
 EUROPA ISLAND (EU), GLORIOSO ISLANDS (GO) (Iles Glorieuses),
 JUAN DE NOVA ISLAND (JU), and TROMELIN ISLAND (TE).


ROMANIA                                                                       RO


RUSSIA                                                                        RS
 Formerly Rossiyskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


RWANDA                                                                        RW
1380                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                              Data Codes


ST. KITTS AND NEVIS                                                                     SC
 Became independent on September 19, 1983. Formerly ST. CHRISTOPHER
 AND NEVIS (SC)


ST. HELENA                                                                              SH
 British colony. Includes Gough Island, Inaccessible Island, and Nightingale
 Island.


ST. LUCIA                                                                               ST


ST. PIERRE AND MIQUELON                                                                 SB
 French overseas territory.


ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES                                                          VC
 Includes the northern Grenadines.


SAN MARINO                                                                              SM


SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE                                                                   TP


SAUDI ARABIA                                                                            SA


SENEGAL                                                                                 SG


SERBIA                                                                                  SR
 Blocked country. Formerly Srbija of Yugoslavia.


SEYCHELLES                                                                              SE
 Includes Aldabra Islands, Alphonse, Bijoutier, and St. Francois islands, Amirante
Isles, Cosmoledo Group, Farquhar Group, Ile Desroches and St. Pierre Islet.


SIERRA LEONE                                                                            SL


SINGAPORE                                                                               SN
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      1381


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                            Data Codes



SLOVAKIA                                                                              LO
 Formerly part of Czechoslavkia.


SLOVENIA                                                                               SI
 Formerly Slovenija of Yugoslavia.


SOLOMON ISLANDS                                                                       BP
 Includes southern Solomon Islands (primarily Guadalcanal, Malaita, San
 Cristobal, Santa Isabel, and Choiseul) and Santa Cruz Islands. Northern Solomon
 Islands constitute part of PAPUA NEW GUINEA (PP).


SOMALIA                                                                               SO


SOUTH AFRICA                                                                          SF
 Includes Walvis Bay, Marion Island, and Prince Edward Island.


SOUTH GEORGIA AND THE SOUTH SANDWICH ISLANDS                                          SX
 British dependency claimed by Argentina.


SPAIN                                                                                 SP
 Includes the Balearic and Canary Islands.


SPRATLY ISLANDS                                                                       PG
 Disputed islands in the South China Sea.


SRI LANKA                                                                             CE


SUDAN                                                                                 SU


SURINAME                                                                              NS
1382                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                        Data Codes


SVALBARD                                                                          SV
 Includes Spitsbergen and Bjornoya.


SWAZILAND                                                                         WZ


SWEDEN                                                                            SW


SWITZERLAND                                                                       SZ


SYRIA                                                                             SY


TAIWAN                                                                            TW
 Includes island of Taiwan, and P'eng-hu Ch'un-tao (Pescadores).


TAJIKISTAN                                                                         TI
 Formerly Tadzhikskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF                                                      TZ


THAILAND                                                                          TH


TOGO                                                                              TO


TOKELAU                                                                           TL
 New Zealand island territory. Includes Atafu, Fakaofu, and Nukunonu Atolls.


TONGA                                                                             TN


TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                               TD


TROMELIN ISLAND                                                                   TE
 French possession.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                    1383


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                          Data Codes


TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS (PALAU)                                      PS
 U.S. administered. Includes the Caroline and Marshall Island Groups. Excludes
 Northern Mariana Islands.


TUNISIA                                                                             TS


TURKEY                                                                              TU


TURKMENISTAN                                                                        TX
 Formerly Turkmenskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


TURKS AND CAICOS ISLANDS                                                            TK
 British colony.


TUVALU                                                                              TV
 Formerly known as Ellice Islands.


UGANDA                                                                              UG


UKRAINE                                                                             UP
 Formerly Ukrainskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.


UNITED ARAB EMIRATES                                                                TC


UNITED KINGDOM                                                                      UK


UNITED STATES                                                                       US
 Includes the 50 States and the District of Columbia.


URUGUAY                                                                             UY


UZBEKISTAN                                                                          UZ
 Formerly Uzbekskaya SSR of the Soviet Union.
1384                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                         Data Codes


VANUATU                                                                            NH
 Formerly New Hebrides.


VATICAN CITY                                                                       VT


VENEZUELA                                                                          VE


VIETNAM                                                                            VM
 Blocked country.


VIRGIN ISLANDS                                                                     VQ
 U.S. territory.


WAKE ISLAND                                                                        WQ
 U.S. territory.


WALLIS AND FUTUNA                                                                  WF
 Overseas territory of FRANCE (FR). Includes Iles de Horne, Ile Uvea, and Ile
 Alofi.



WEST BANK                                                                          WE
 All of the area west of the Jordan River.


WESTERN SAHARA                                                                     WI
 Formerly Spanish Sahara. Now under de facto control of Morocco.


WESTERN SAMOA                                                                      WS


YEMEN                                                                              YM
 Replaced YEMEN (SANAA) (YE) and YEMEN (ADEN) (YS).


ZAIRE                                                                              CG
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1385


Country Name (Alphabetically presented)                                               Data Codes



ZAMBIA                                                                                    ZA


ZIMBABWE                                                                                   ZI
 Formerly Southern Rhodesia.


NOTE: All name entries with the letter "Q" as the second character of their data codes are outlying areas
of the US.


Data Codes. The following is a list of country codes presented in alphabetical sequence, representing the
geopolitical entities described in the previous paragraph.


 Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


                  AA                     ARUBA
                  AC                     ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA
                  AF                     AFGHANISTAN
                  AG                     ALGERIA
                  AJ                     AZERBAIJAN
                  AL                     ALBANIA
                  AM                     ARMENIA
                  AN                     ANDORRA
                  AO                     ANGOLA
                  AQ                     AMERICAN SAMOA
                  AR                     ARGENTINA
                  AS                     AUSTRALIA
                  AT                     ASHMORE AND CARTIER ISLANDS
                  AU                     AUSTRIA
                  AV                     ANGUILLA
                  AY                     ANTARCTICA
                  BA                     BAHRAIN
                  BB                     BARBADOS
                  BC                     BOTSWANA
1386                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


               BD                 BERMUDA
               BE                 BELGIUM
               BF                 BAHAMAS
               BG                 BANGLADESH
               BH                 BELIZE
               BK                 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
               BL                 BOLIVIA
               BM                 BURMA
               BN                 BENIN
               BO                 BELARUS
               BP                 SOLOMON ISLANDS
               BQ                 NAVASSA ISLAND
               BR                 BRAZIL
               BS                 BASSAS DA INDIA
               BT                 BHUTAN
               BU                 BULGARIA
               BV                 BOUVET ISLAND
               BX                 BRUNEI
               BY                 BURUNDI
               CA                 CANADA
               CB                 CAMBODIA
               CD                 CHAD
               CE                 SRI LANKA
               CF                 CONGO
               CG                 ZAIRE
               CH                 CHINA
               CI                 CHILE
               CJ                 CAYMAN ISLANDS
               CK                 COCOS (KEELING) ISLANDS
               CM                 CAMEROON
               CN                 COMOROS
               CO                 COLOMBIA
               CQ                 NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
               CR                 CORAL SEA ISLANDS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             1387


Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


              CS                 COSTA RICA
              CT                 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
              CU                 CUBA
              CV                 CAPE VERDE
              CW                 COOK ISLANDS
              CY                 CYPRUS
              DA                 DENMARK
              DJ                 DJIBOUTI
              DO                 DOMINICA
              DQ                 JARVIS ISLAND
              DR                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
              EC                 ECUADOR
              EG                 EGYPT
               EI                IRELAND
              EK                 EQUATORIAL GUINEA
              EN                 ESTONIA
              ER                 ERITREA
              ES                 EL SALVADOR
              ET                 ETHIOPIA
              EU                 EUROPA ISLAND
              EZ                 CZECH REPUBLIC
              FG                 FRENCH GUIANA
               FI                FINLAND
              FJ                 FIJI
              FK                 FALKLAND ISLANDS (ISLAS MALVINAS)
              FM                 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
              FO                 FAROE ISLANDS
              FP                 FRENCH POLYNESIA
              FQ                 BAKER ISLAND
              FR                 FRANCE
              FS                 FRENCH SOUTHERN AND ANTARCTIC LANDS
              GA                 GAMBIA, THE
              GB                 GABON
              GG                 GEORGIA
1388                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


               GH                 GHANA
               GI                 GIBRALTAR
               GJ                 GRENADA
               GK                 GUERNSEY
               GL                 GREENLAND
               GM                 GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
               GO                 GLORIOSO ISLANDS
               GP                 GUADELOUPE
               GQ                 GUAM
               GR                 GREECE
               GT                 GUATEMALA
               GV                 GUINEA
               GY                 GUYANA
               GZ                 GAZA STRIP
               HA                 HAITI
               HK                 HONG KONG
               HM                 HEARD ISLAND AND MCDONALD ISLANDS
               HO                 HONDURAS
               HQ                 HOWLAND ISLAND
               HR                 CROATIA
               HU                 HUNGARY
               IC                 ICELAND
               ID                 INDONESIA
               IM                 MAN, ISLE OF
               IN                 INDIA
               IO                 BRITISH INDIAN OCEAN TERRITORY
               IP                 CLIPPERTON ISLAND
               IR                 IRAN
               IS                 ISRAEL
               IT                 ITALY
               IV                 COTE D'IVOIRE
               IZ                 IRAQ
               JA                 JAPAN
               JE                 JERSEY
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                1389


Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


              JM                 JAMAICA
              JN                 JAN MAYEN
              JO                 JORDAN
              JQ                 JOHNSTON ATOLL
              JU                 JUAN DE NOVA ISLAND
              KE                 KENYA
              KG                 KYRGYZSTAN
              KN                 KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUPLIC OF
              KQ                 KINGMAN REEF
              KR                 KIRIBATI
              KS                 KOREA, REPUBLIC OF
              KT                 CHRISTMAS ISLAND
              KU                 KUWAIT
              KZ                 KAZAKHSTAN
              LA                 LAOS
              LE                 LEBANON
              LG                 LATVIA
              LH                 LITHUANIA
              LI                 LIBERIA
              LO                 SLOVAKIA
              LQ                 PALMYRA ATOLL
              LS                 LIECHTENSTEIN
              LT                 LESOTHO
              LU                 LUXEMBOURG
              LY                 LIBYA
              MA                 MADAGASCAR
              MB                 MARTINIQUE
              MC                 MACAU
              MD                 MOLDOVA
              MF                 MAYOTTE
              MG                 MONGOLIA
              MH                 MONTSERRAT
              MI                 MALAWI
              MK                 MACEDONIA
1390                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


               ML                 MALI
               MN                 MONACO
               MO                 MOROCCO
               MP                 MAURITIUS
               MQ                 MIDWAY ISLANDS
               MR                 MAURITANIA
               MT                 MALTA
               MU                 OMAN
               MV                 MALDIVES
               MW                 MONTENEGRO
               MX                 MEXICO
               MY                 MALAYSIA
               MZ                 MOZAMBIQUE
               NC                 NEW CALEDONIA
               NE                 NIUE
               NF                 NORFOLK ISLAND
               NG                 NIGER
               NH                 VANUATU
               NI                 NIGERIA
               NL                 NETHERLANDS
               NO                 NORWAY
               NP                 NEPAL
               NR                 NAURU
               NS                 SURINAME
               NT                 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES
               NU                 NICARAGUA
               NZ                 NEW ZEALAND
               PA                 PARAGUAY
               PC                 PITCAIRN ISLANDS
               PE                 PERU
               PF                 PARACEL ISLANDS
               PG                 SPRATLY ISLANDS
               PK                 PAKISTAN
               PL                 POLAND
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                1391


Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


              PM                 PANAMA
              PO                 PORTUGAL
              PP                 PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
              PS                 TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
                                 (PALAU)
              PU                 GUINEA-BISSAU, REPUBLIC OF
              QA                 QATAR
              RE                 REUNION
              RM                 MARSHALL ISLANDS
              RO                 ROMANIA
              RP                 PHILIPPINES
              RQ                 PUERTO RICO
              RS                 RUSSIA
              RW                 RWANDA
              SA                 SAUDI ARABIA
              SB                 ST. PIERRE AND MIQUELON
              SC                 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
              SE                 SEYCHELLES
              SF                 SOUTH AFRICA
              SG                 SENEGAL
              SH                 ST. HELENA
               SI                SLOVENIA
              SL                 SIERRA LEONE
              SM                 SAN MARINO
              SN                 SINGAPORE
              SO                 SOMALIA
              SP                 SPAIN
              SR                 SERBIA
              ST                 ST. LUCIA
              SU                 SUDAN
              SV                 SVALBARD
              SW                 SWEDEN
              SX                 SOUTH GEORGIA AND SOUTH SANDWICH ISLES
              SY                 SYRIA
1392                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


 Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


               SZ                 SWITZERLAND
               TC                 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
               TD                 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
               TE                 TROMELIN ISLAND
               TH                 THAILAND
                TI                TAJIKISTAN
               TK                 TURKS AND CAICOS ISLANDS
               TL                 TOKELAU
               TN                 TONGA
               TO                 TOGO
               TP                 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
               TS                 TUNISIA
               TU                 TURKEY
               TV                 TUVALU
               TW                 TAIWAN
               TX                 TURKMENISTAN
               TZ                 TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF
               UG                 UGANDA
               UK                 UNITED KINGDOM
               UP                 UKRAINE
               US                 UNITED STATES
               UV                 BURKINA
               UY                 URUGUAY
               UZ                 UZBEKISTAN
               VC                 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
               VE                 VENEZUELA
               VI                 BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS
               VM                 VIETNAM
               VQ                 VIRGIN ISLANDS
               VT                 VATICAN CITY
               WA                 NAMIBIA
               WE                 WEST BANK
               WF                 WALLIS AND FUTUNA
               WI                 WESTERN SAHARA
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                        1393


Alphabetical List of Country Codes Country Name


              WQ                 WAKE ISLAND
              WS                 WESTERN SAMOA
              WZ                 SWAZILAND
              YM                 YEMEN
              ZA                 ZAMBIA
              ZI                 ZIMBABWE
1394                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                             Attachment 18

                                        ACTION INDICATORS

A18.1. Purpose. Action indicator (ACTN-INDCTR) is the data item used to tell the computer programs
the action to be taken on a transaction. Action indicators are put in transactions by the originator or are
computer generated. The computer generated action indicators are the same as the first six regular action
indicators except the first position is alpha. The alpha position identifies the event (PCS, reenlistment,
promotion, etc.) that processed to cause the computer to generate the action. Table A18.1. shows the
action indicator name and code, tells what the action indicator does and gives some general information
about the action indicator. The first position of the computer generated action indicator and the transac-
tion that processed to generate that alpha character are shown and explained in the NOTE following Table
A18.1.

A18.2. This attachment covers usual uses, general information, and notable exceptions. It is very impor-
tant that you check the FORMAT-ID involved to see what special rules and/or processing may be
involved.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1395


Table A18.1. JUMPS Action Indicators.
  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE        FUNCTION         PURPOSE                      GENERAL INFORMATION
     01       Start          Record open           a. Start transactions for most FORMAT IDs will
                             entries in the        process as long as there is no open entry for that
                             MMPA to pay           FORMAT ID on the MMPA, or a closed entry that
                             entitlements,         the transaction start date overlaps. There are some
                             collect               notable exceptions: allotments, indebtedness, and
                             deductions, pay       FSA can have multiple open entries with the same
                             allotments, held      FORMAT ID.
                             pay, and put
                             information in the
                             MMPA such as          b. Entries started by a start transaction remain open
                             TDY ADSN.             until a transaction is received to stop, change,
                                                   correct or cancel the open entry.
     02       Stop           Close open            a. A stop transaction can normally process only
                             entries in the        against open entries in the MMPA with start dates
                             MMPA.                 equal to or less than the stop date.
                             Processing puts a
                             stop date in the
                             entry and moves it    b. The stop date is the date through which the entry
                             to history.           is effective, except for monthly-rated items stopped
                                                   on the last day of February. These pay for a 30-day
                                                   month.
     03       Report         Rules for report      a. Report events like PCS, accessions, separations,
                             transactions vary     etc., that are effective on a special date. Processing
                             according to          results in a complete MMPA update of all affected
                             FORMAT ID             entries, and can result in both starting and stopping
                             (refer to manual      of a number of entries, depending on the event.
                             for details).
                             Generally
                             however, there        b. Report inclusive dates of entitlements or status
                             must be a             events such as leave or AWOL. Processing results
                             transaction for       in a closed history entry and, in the case of status
                             the same              events, a number of closed non-entitlement entries.
                             FORMAT ID for
                             any period
                             covered by the        c. Report actions such as payments, collections,
                             report transaction.   and information such as voucher totals. These
                                                   transactions result only in data being entered in the
                                                   system. In the case of payments or collections,
                                                   adjust the amounts due to the member.
1396                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE     FUNCTION      PURPOSE                     GENERAL INFORMATION
       04   Change     Change data in       a. The start date in a change transaction is the date
                       open MMPA            the new MMPA entry is effective. The old open
                       entries.             entry is stopped the day before the date in the
                       Processing results   change transaction.
                       in a closed entry
                       with the old data
                       and a new open       b. For a change transaction to process, there must
                       entry with the       be an entry on the MMPA with a start date less than
                       new data.            the effective date in the transaction.
                       Processing
                       updates monetary
                       amounts as
                       necessary.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     1397


  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE      FUNCTION        PURPOSE                   GENERAL INFORMATION
    05      Correct     Correct erroneous    a. Correct transactions usually have more
                        data that is in an   restriction and specific instructions concerning their
                        MMPA entry.          use than other transactions. It is very important that
                        Normally             you check the chapter covering the FORMAT ID
                        processing puts      carefully, especially the figures showing the
                        the entry with       transaction input formats and special instructions.
                        incorrect data in
                        history with a
                        processing           b. In general, for correct transactions to process, an
                        control code of 6    entry must be in the MMPA with dates that match
                        and creates a new    the prior date fields of the transaction.
                        entry with the
                        correct data. A
                        notable exception    c. The transaction, as corrected, must pass the same
                        is correction of     edits as if it had been submitted correctly, whether it
                        PCS entries. This    was a start, stop, or report transaction.
                        processing
                        changes the data
                                             d. The correction process can become quite
                        in the open or
                                             complicated when previously processed
                        closed PCS entry
                                             transactions have resulted in stop and start
                        but does not
                                             transactions, and a date the action was incorrect. In
                        create an entry
                                             these cases, transactions must be input in a
                        with the old data.
                                             sequence that does not cause them to reject because
                        Correcting one
                                             they conflict with entries in the MMPA.
                        event normally
                        results in           Example: The start date of an open entry and stop
                        correction of all    date of a closed entry are incorrect.
                        MMPA entries            (1) If the correct date is later (940610 instead of
                        affected by the      940510 for the start date, and the stop date the day
                        event. Where all     before), process a transaction to correct the start
                        entries are not      date of the open entry and then a transaction to
                        correct, the         correct the stop date of the closed entry.
                        transaction is
                        rejected to             (2) If, in the case above the correct date had been
                        DFAS-DE for          earlier (940410 instead of 940510), the stop date of
                        manual actions.      the closed entry would have been corrected first.
                                             Then the start date of the open entry.
1398                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE      FUNCTION      PURPOSE                     GENERAL INFORMATION
                                             e. Where there are several open and closed entries
                                             that are involved in the correction, extra care is
                                             required. If in doubt of the sequence, use a printout
                                             of the MMPA as a worksheet and consider what the
                                             MMPA would look like after each transaction
                                             processes.
       06   Cancel      Completely voids     In many instances, a cancel transaction must match
                        the effects of a     the entry on the MMPA in order to process. In other
                        transaction that     instances, only dates must match. See the figure in
                        should never have    the manual for the input format and special
                        been processed.      instructions.
                        A cancel
                        transaction
                        restores the
                        MMPA to the
                        condition prior to
                        the erroneous
                        transaction. The
                        canceled
                        transaction is
                        shown in history
                        with a computer
                        processing
                        control code of 6.
       07   Increase    Increase the       This action indicator can only be used to increase
                        amount to be paid the amount of an allotment.
                        to an allottee.
                        Processing puts a
                        stop date in the
                        open entry and
                        moves it to
                        history. A new
                        entry is opened
                        with the increased
                        amount.
       08   Decrease    Same as increase
                        except only
                        reduces the
                        amount of an
                        allotment.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  1399


  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE      FUNCTION        PURPOSE                   GENERAL INFORMATION
    09      Inquiry     Request          This action indicator cannot cause a change to any
                        information from entry in the MMPA.
                        member's MMPA.
    10      Reply       Return
                        information from
                        an inquiry to the
                        inquirer.
    11      Pay         Notify the FSO of This action indicator is used in pay authorizations
                        amount to be paid that are computed and sent to the FSO.
                        to a member by
                        the FSO.
    13      Release     To release pay       This action indicator is used to release pay held in
                        and allowances       the HA and HG entry, and under some conditions
                        withheld from        HD entry, to member, and from the HF to the source
                        payment to a         listed in the E713 transactions.
                        member.
                        Processing of this
                        transaction
                        reduces the
                        pay-held-balance
                        and establishes a
                        held pay release
                        entry in the
                        MMPA.
    18      Suspend     Temporarily       Used when a member requests a waiver or applies
                        suspends          for a remission of a debt.
                        collection.
                        Processing puts a
                        code in the open
                        indebtedness
                        entry which
                        causes the
                        computer not to
                        collect from the
                        member's pay for
                        the indebtedness.
1400                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE      FUNCTION      PURPOSE                     GENERAL INFORMATION
       20   Resume      Restarts             Used when the request for a remission or a waiver
                        collection of        has been disapproved.
                        indebtedness
                        from a member's
                        pay after
                        collection action
                        was suspended.
                        Processing
                        resumes
                        collection at the
                        rate in the
                        transaction.
       21   Remit       Forgive all or part Used when the request for a remission or a waiver
                        of a debt balance has been approved.
                        by waiving,
                        remitting, or
                        declaring debt
                        uncollectable.
                        Processing closes
                        open entry and
                        moves it to
                        history with the
                        reason for
                        forgiving the
                        debt.
       26   Delete      Notify DFAS-DE       When this action indicator is used, the FSO must
                        that a one-time      assure that any other transaction relating to the
                        pay authorization    one-time pay authorization is processed on a timely
                        is not being paid.   basis so member will not be over or under paid.
                        Processing causes
                        the money to be
                        placed in the
                        member's pay
                        authorization.
       40   Memo        Memo entries are Used only by DFAS-DE.
                        used to explain
                        actions of events
                        that have impact
                        on the MMPA.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     1401


  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE      FUNCTION          PURPOSE                  GENERAL INFORMATION
    46      Delete          Deletes an entry Used only by DFAS-DE
                            or entries from the
                            variable or history
                            areas of the
                            MMPA. It cannot
                            be used in the
                            fixed area of the
                            MMPA.
    61      Pay             Tells the FSO      See paragraph 52-15.
            Authorization   what the final pay
                            authorization is
                            when a member is
                            being separated.
    63      EEP             Report mid and    Used with FORMAT ID "PU" only.
            Submission      end-of-month
            Report          voucher totals to
                            DFAS-DE for
                            exception
                            payment posting.
    65      EPP Correction Correct mid and    Used with FORMAT ID "PU" only.
                           end-of-month
                           voucher totals
                           reported to
                           DFAS-DE.
    83      Report          Post past periods Use is restricted to DFAS-DE.
                            of entitlement that
                            are outside IAS.
                            Puts a closed
                            report entry on the
                            MMPA.
    86      Cancel          Cancel an MMPA Use is restricted to DFAS-DE.
                            report entry put
                            on the MMPA by
                            an "83" action
                            indicator.
1402                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


  ACTION
INDICATOR
   CODE          FUNCTION           PURPOSE                    GENERAL INFORMATION
       93                        Report regular    Used with FORMAT ID "PZ" only.
                                 mid and
                                 end-of-month
                                 voucher totals
                                 under 100% detail
                                 submission of
                                 regular payrolls
                                 or to clear an
                                 out-of-balance
                                 "PU" transaction.

NOTES:
   If first position of MMPA action indicators is an alpha character, it refers to the FORMAT ID for
status (i.e., SA=A, SB=B, SJ=J, ST=T, etc.), except for C=TC, D=MD, E=EA, V=E3/E4/E5/E6, and
Z=MASS rate changes.
  Bases can use a "3" in the first position of the action indicator with the first six action indicators.
This indicates that member just entered the service and causes the transaction to recycle up to 60 days
waiting for an accession transaction to process and create an MMPA.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1403


                                             Attachment 19

                                    FORMAT IDENTIFICATION
                                        (FORMAT ID)

A19.1. FORMAT ID is the data item used to identify the type of transaction, management notice, entry or
pay authorization in DJMS.

A19.2. This attachment gives a quick insight into how a FORMAT ID is used in DJMS and its effect on
the MMPA if used as a transaction. For each FORMAT ID this attachment provides:
   A19.2.1. FORMAT ID.
   A19.2.2. Description. Provides a brief explanation of the purpose of the entry on the MMPA.
   A19.2.3. Key. Provides any code that is of major importance and, if the code has a major impact on
   how this transaction processes, it describes these variations. A 1 in this column indicates a transaction
   that will process in V status, with action indicator 01, a 2 indicates transactions that will process in V
   status with all action indicators, and a 3 indicates only an action indicator of 04 will process in V sta-
   tus.
   A19.2.4. Use. Provides what this FORMAT ID is used for in DJMS. It will be one or more of the
   following:
       A19.2.4.1. Transaction (Trans)
       A19.2.4.2. MMPA entry (Entry)
       A19.2.4.3. Management Notice (Notice)
       A19.2.4.4. Pay Authorization (Auth)
       A19.2.4.5. Base-Level Transaction (Base)
   A19.2.5. Input. Provides the primary input source. Will be one or more of the following:
       A19.2.5.1. For FSO:
           A19.2.5.1.1. FSO (servicing FSO only)
           A19.2.5.1.2. FSO-T (servicing and TDY FSO)
           A19.2.5.1.3. FSO-A (any FSO)
       A19.2.5.2. MPF
       A19.2.5.3. AFPC
       A19.2.5.4. DFAS-DE
       A19.2.5.5. Computer (Computer generated)
   A19.2.6. Reference. Provides a manual reference for more information about that particular FOR-
   MAT-ID. If no reference is listed, this is the only information on that particular FORMAT-ID found in
   the manual.
1404                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



FORMAT DESCRIPTION            KEY   USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                          SOURCE


   AA   Allotment or Bond           Trans FSO-A                C 57, 58
        Mailing Address


   AB   Bond Allotment              Trans/ FSO-A               C 58
                                    Entry


   AC   Charity Allotment           Trans/ FSO-A               C 57
                                    Entry


   AD   Dependent Support           Trans/ FSO-A               C 57
        Allotment                   Entry


   AF   Air Force Aid               Trans/ FSO-A               C 57
        Allotment                   Entry


   AH   Mortgage Payment            Trans/ FSO-A               C 57
        Allotment                   Entry


   AI   Insurance Allotment         Trans/ FSO-A               C 57
                                    Entry

   AS   Savings Allotment           Trans/ FSO-A               C 57
                                    Entry


   AT   Indebtedness                Trans/ FSO-A               C 57
        Allotment                   Entry


   AV   Number of                   Entry Computer             C 57
        Allotments


   AX   Allotment Stop              Trans Computer             C 57
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 1405


FORMAT DESCRIPTION               KEY   USE            INPUT     REFERENCE
   ID                                             SOURCE



   AZ    Allotment Flash               Entry Computer           C 57
         Code


   BL    Days Paid Accrued             Entry Computer/DFAS-DE
         Leave


   BM    Saved Pay Leave               Entry Computer/DFAS-DE
         Balances


   BS    HFP CZ Leave                  Trans/ FSO-T             C 44
         Balance                       Entry


   BR    Standard Leave                Entry Computer
         Balances


  CC03   Cash Collection for           Trans FSO-A              C 68
         TSP


   C1    Canceled or              2    Trans/ DFAS-DE           C 7, 65
         Undeliverable                 Entry
         Checks - Members
         Pay

   C2    Collection Applied to    2    Trans/ FSO-A             C 65
         Member’s                      Entry
         Indebtedness


   C3    Collection of TLA             Trans FSO-A              C 29, 65
         Overpayments


   C5    Collection or Check      2    Trans/ DFAS-DE           C 57
         Cancellation of               Entry
         Allotments
1406                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION             KEY   USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                            SOURCE


   C9   Collection Voucher           Trans FSO-A                C 76
        Total


   DB   Servicemember’s              Trans/ MPF/Computer        C 63
        Group Life Insurance         Entry
        Premium


   DC   Dependent Dental        2    Trans/ MPF/Computer        C 61
        Plan Premium                 Entry


   DD   Armed Forces                 Entry Computer             C 59
        Retirement Home
        (AFRH)


   DE   MGIB                         Entry Computer             C 64


   DF   Monetary                     Entry Computer
        Punishment


   DG   Indebtedness - GPLD     1    Trans/ FSO-A               C 69, 70
        or Report Survey             Entry


   DH   Rental Fair Value            Entry Computer             C 26


   DN   Meal Collection              Trans/ FSO-A/Computer      C 25
                                     Entry



   DQ   Indebtedness for        1    Trans/ FSO-A/Computer      C 69, 70
        Overpayment of Pay           Entry
        and Allowances
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                 1407


FORMAT DESCRIPTION              KEY   USE            INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                              SOURCE


   DR    Indebtedness for        1    Trans/ FSO-A           C 69, 70
         Excess Weight/               Entry
         Household Goods/
         House Trailer


   DS    Miscellaneous           1    Trans/ FSO-A           C 69, 70, 71, 72
         Indebtedness                 Entry


   DT    Monetary                     Trans DFAS-DE/FSO-A    C 70, 72
         Punishment


   DV    Indebtedness - Repay         Entry Computer         C 69, 70
         Advance


  DW     Indebtedness -               Entry Computer         C 69, 70
         Casual/Partial


   DZ    Indebtedness Entry           Entry Computer
         Code


   D1    TSP                          Trans/ FSO-A           C 68
                                      Entry

   EA    Enlisted/Officer             Trans AFPC             C 39
         Accession


   E0    Update Individual            Trans DFAS-DE
         MMPAs


   E1    BMT/OTS Accession            Trans MPF              C 39


   E2    Service Academy              Trans MPF              C 39
         Accession
1408                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION           KEY   USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                          SOURCE


   E3   Port Separation            Trans MPF                  C 52


   E4   Final Separation           Trans MPF                  C 52


   E5   Final Separation           Trans MPF/DFAS-DE          C 52, 54


   E6   Reenlistment               Trans MPF                  C 53


   E7   Court-Martial              Trans FSO-A                C 67
        Actions


   E8   Non-Judicial               Trans FSO-A                C 67
        Punishment Actions


   FA   FICA Maximum               Entry Computer             C 56


   FB   FITW Quotient              Entry Computer
        Factors


   FC   FICA Withholding           Entry Computer             C 56
        Amount


   FD   FITW Withholding           Trans/ FSO-A               C 56
        Amount                     Entry


   FE   Earned Income              Trans/ FSO-T               C 56
        Credit                     Entry


   FF   FITW Deduction             Trans/ FSO-A               C 56
        Election                   Entry


   FG   Number of FITW             Trans/ FSO-A               C 56
        Exemptions                 Entry
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                             1409


FORMAT DESCRIPTION             KEY   USE            INPUT    REFERENCE
   ID                                           SOURCE



   FH    Medicare                    Entry Computer          C 56


   FJ    FITW                        Trans/ FSO-A/DFAS-DE/   C 56
                                     Entry Computer


   FK    SITW Deduction              Trans/ FSO-A/DFAS-DE/   C 56
                                     Entry Computer


   FL    CZTE Federal                Trans/ FSO-A/DFAS-DE/   C 56
         Taxable Wages               Entry Computer


   FM    FITW Additional             Entry Computer          C 56
         Withholding
         Indicator


   FN    Prior Year FICA,            Trans DFAS-DE           C 56, 7
         Medicare, FITW, and
         SITW


   FP    FITW Wages Earned           Entry Computer          C 56


   FQ    Exemption From              Trans/ FSO-A            C 56
         Withholding                 Entry


   FS    SITW                        Entry Computer          C 56


   FT                                Entry Computer          C 56


   HA    Pay Held-Member’s           Trans/ FSO-A            C 66
         Request                     Entry
1410                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION             KEY   USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                           SOURCE


   HB   Pay                          Trans/ FSO-A               C 66
        Held-Commander’s             Entry
        Request


   HD   Retained Pay                 Entry Computer             C 67
        Balances


   HE   Fines Pending                Entry Computer
        Appellate Review


   HF                                Entry Computer             C 67


   HG   Pay Held -                   Trans/ DFAS-DE             C 66
        Garnishment                  Entry


   HK   Duty Status Change           Entry Computer


   HR   Member Must be               Entry Computer             C7
        Paid in Even Dollars


   HS   Members Request              Entry Computer             C 66
        Balances


   HT   Commanders                   Entry Computer             C 66
        Request Balances



   HV   Duty Status Change           Entry Computer             C 66
        Balances


   HX                                Entry Computer             C 66


   HY   Pay Held Released            Entry Computer             C 66
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               1411


FORMAT DESCRIPTION           KEY   USE            INPUT    REFERENCE
   ID                                            SOURCE


   HZ    MMPA                      Entry Computer          C 66
         Out-of-Balance


   LA    Check Recipient -         Trans/ DFAS-DE
         Individual                Entry


   LB    Paying ADSN               Trans/ FSO-T/Computer   C 7, 41, 42
                                   Entry


   LC    Servicing ADSN            Trans/ FSO/Computer     C 7, 41
                                   Entry


   LD    TDY ADSN                  Trans/ FSO-T            C 42
                                   Entry


   LE    Duty Country or           Trans/ Computer/MPF     C 41
         Non-CONUS State           Entry For LE05 – DFAS


   LF    Future Mailing       3    Entry Computer          C 52
         Address


   LG    MPF Number and            Trans/ MPF              C 41
         Major Command             Entry
         Identity


   LH    Financial                 Trans/ FSO-T/FSO-A      C 38, 60
         Organization to           Entry
         Receive Pay


   LK    Pay Option                Trans Computer          C 60


   MA    Member’s SSN              Trans/ AFPC             C 39
                                   Entry
1412                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION             KEY   USE           INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                              SOURCE



   MC   Member’s Name                Trans/ AFPC/MPF           C 39
                                     Entry


   MD   Member’s Grade               Trans/ AFPC               C 78
                                     Entry


   ME   Member’s Sex Code            Trans/ MPF                C 39
                                     Entry


   MG   Taxing Authority -           Trans/ FSO                C 56
        City/ State                  Entry


   MH   Resident Country or          Trans/ FSO                C 39
        Non-CONUS                    Entry


   MJ   AFPC Match Flag              Entry Computer            C 39, 53


   MK   Control Dates                Entry Computer            C 39



   ML   Officer Confirmation         Trans AFPC
        of Accession



   MM   Airman Confirmation          Trans AFPC
        of Accession


   MN   Separation                   Trans AFPC
        Confirmation
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           1413


FORMAT DESCRIPTION              KEY   USE         INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                            SOURCE


   NA    Privacy Act Flag             Entry/ DFAS-DE
                                      Trans



   NB    Leave Transaction            Entry Computer      C 44
         Pending


   NC    Aviator Continuation         Entry Computer      C 16
         Pay Memo


   NE    ECAF Household               Entry Computer      C 69
         Goods Control


   NL    LES Remark                   Entry Computer      C7


   NM    After Separation             Entry Computer      C 52
         Memorandum


   NN    Rejected                     Entry Computer      C 52, 53
         Reenlistment or
         Separation
         Transaction


   NP    Deletion of MMPA             Entry Computer


   NQ    Separation Payment           Entry Computer      C 52
         to be Applied


   NR    Miscellaneous Leave          Trans DFAS-DE       C 44
         Balance Adjustment


   NT    Separation/Reentry           Entry Computer      C 52, 53
         Projected Settlement
1414                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION            KEY   USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                            SOURCE


   NW   Bad Status                  Entry Computer             C 43
        Transaction


   N0   Projected PCS               Entry Computer             C 41
        Departure


   N1   Advance Leave               Entry Computer             C 44


   N2   BAS Collection              Entry Computer             C 25


   N3   Clothing Allowance          Entry Computer             C 33
        Initial Military


   N4   Death Gratuity              Entry Computer             C 54


   N6   Temporary Lodging           Entry Computer             C 29
        Allowance


   N7   Separation                  Entry Computer             C 52, 53
        Transaction Pending


   N8   Miscellaneous               Entry Computer             C 69
        Indebtedness
        Pending


   N9   DFAS-DE                     Entry Computer
        Adjustment
        Explanation


   PA   Advance Payment             Trans/ FSO-A               C 30, 31, 35
                                    Entry


   PB   Payment or             2    Trans/ FSO                 C 54
        Authorization of            Entry
        Arrears in Pay
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              1415


FORMAT DESCRIPTION             KEY   USE            INPUT    REFERENCE
   ID                                             SOURCE



   PC    Payment of Casual      2    Trans/ FSO-A            C 36, 77
         Pay                         Entry


   PD    Payment of Class X          Trans/ FSO-A            C 57
         Allotments                  Entry


   PE    Payment of Death            Trans FSO-A             C 54
         Gratuity


   PF    Payment of Held Pay         Trans/ DFAS-DE          C 66
                                     Entry


   PG    Payment or             2    Trans/ FSO              C 39, 40
         Authorization of            Entry
         Basic Trainee Pay


   PH    Regular EOM Pay             Entry Computer
         for Prior Months


   PI    Missed Meal Refund          Trans/ FSO-A/Computer   C 25
                                     Entry


   PJ    Payment of             2    Auth/ FSO-A             C 10
         One-Time Pay                Entry/
         Authorization for
         ASP/ISP/MSP/                Trans
         CRNA


   PK    Payment of Partial     2    Trans/ FSO-A            C 36, 77
         Pay                         Entry
1416                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION          KEY   USE           INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                          SOURCE


   PL   Payment of           2    Auth/ FSO-A               C 12, 53
        One-Time Pay              Trans/
        Authorization for
        VRB, SEB or SRB           Entry



   PM   Payment of RRB       2    Auth/ FSO                 C 12, 53
                                  Trans


   PN   Regular MM                Entry Computer            C7
        Payment for Prior
        Months


   PO   Balance EOM for           Entry Computer
        ADSN 9998
        Members


   PP                             Trans Computer            C7


   PQ   Payment of           2    Auth/ FSO-A               C 52, 53
        One-Time Pay              Trans/
        Authorization for
        Separation                Entry


   PR   Payment of                Trans/ FSO                C 16
        One-Time Pay              Entry
        Authorization for
        ACP


   PS   Local Payment of          Trans FSO-A               C 29
        TLA


   PT   CMAI and/or CMA           Trans FSO-A               C 33
        Allowances
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                              1417


FORMAT DESCRIPTION              KEY   USE            INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                            SOURCE


   PU    Regular Payment              Entry Computer         C7
         Current Month


   PV    Payment for Comfort          Trans/ FSO-A           C 48
         Items                        Entry


   PX    Delinquent Posted            Trans Computer         C 37, 76
         Regular or One-Time
         Payments


   PY    Payment                      Trans Computer
         Out-of-Balance from
         Authorization


   PZ    Payment Voucher              Trans FSO-A            C 76, 77
         Total


   P1    Suppress Payment             Trans/ DFAS-DE         C7
         (MM)                         Entry


   P2    Suppress Payment             Trans/ DFAS-DE         C7
         (EOM)                        Entry

   P3    Pay Computation              Entry Computer
         Factors - Current
         Month


   P4    Pay Computation              Entry Computer
         Factors - Next Month


   P5    Pay Authorization -          Auth/ Computer         C7
         Current                      Entry
1418                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION             KEY   USE         INPUT        REFERENCE
   ID                                           SOURCE


   P7   Amount Total                 Entry Computer
        Entitlements
        Allotable


   P8   Refunds - Allotments         Entry Computer


   P9   Refunds - Other than         Entry Computer/DFAS-DE
        Allotments


   R1   Medical/Dental/              Entry Computer           C 9, 10
        Nurse Bonus
        Recoupment


   R2   Medical                      Entry Computer           C 10
        Continuation Pay


   R3   RRB Entitlement              Entry Computer           C 52, 53
        Maximum Indicator


   R4   Reenlistment Bonus           Entry Computer           C 9, 12, 52, 53
        Cumulative Amount
        Recouped

   R5   RRB/Last                     Entry Computer           C 9, 12, 52, 53
        Reenlistment


   R6   VRB                          Entry Computer           C 17


   R7   SRB                          Entry Computer           C 9, 12, 52, 53


   R8   SEB                          Entry Computer           C 12


   R9   Aviator Continuation         Entry Computer           C 16
        Pay
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                     1419


FORMAT DESCRIPTION                    KEY   USE            INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                                    SOURCE



   RA    Aviator Continuation               Entry Computer         C 16
         Pay Recoupment


   RB    Medical Officer                    Entry Computer         C 10
         Retention Bonus


   RC    Incentive Special Pay              Entry Computer         C 10


   RD    Incentive Special Pay              Entry Computer
         - CRNA


   RE    Special Pay - Nurse                Entry Computer         C 10
         Accession


   RY    BP Accumulator -                   Entry Computer
         High Amounts


   RZ    BP Accumulator -                   Entry Computer
         Low Amounts



   SA    On-Station Status       Open       Trans/ MPF             C 43
                                 Status     Entry


   SB    Leave Status                       Trans/ FSO-A           C 44
                                            Entry


   SC    LES Address Update                 Trans FSO/DFAS-DE      C 6, 7, 8


   SG    PCS Arrival                        Trans/ FSO-A           C 41
                                            Entry
1420                                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION                    KEY      USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                                       SOURCE


   SH       PCS Departure                      Trans/ FSO-A               C 41
                                               Entry


       SJ   AWOL Status                        Trans/ MPF                 C 46
                                               Entry


   SK       Confinement Status   Confinement   Trans/ MPF                 C 48
                                               Entry


   SL       Deceased Status                    Trans/ DFAS-DE             C 54
                                               Entry


   SM       Missing Status                     Trans/ DFAS-DE             C 51
                                               Entry


   SP       Desertion Status                   Trans/ MPF                 C 47
                                               Entry


   ST       Suspended Status     Status        Trans/ MPF/Computer/       C 52, 81
                                 Suspension    Entry DFAS-DE
                                 Reason


   SU       Mentally                           Trans/ DFAS-DE             C 50
            Incompetent Status                 Entry


   SV       Separated Status                   Entry Computer             C 52


   SX       Number of Open                     Entry Computer
            Status Entries
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          1421


FORMAT DESCRIPTION                   KEY       USE          INPUT    REFERENCE
   ID                                                       SOURCE


   TA    Lost Days Current    Indicator        Entry Computer        C 46
         Enlistment Indicator 1 No lost time

                                2 Lost time


   TB    Lost Days Current                     Entry Computer        C 46
         Enlistment


   TC    Years of Service                      Entry Computer        C 8, 34
         Completed




   TD    Date of Separation -                  Trans/ MPF            C 39, 52, 53
         Last Active Duty                      Entry
         Officer Status


   TE    Date of Separation -                  Trans/ MPF            C 39, 53
         Previous Enlistment                   Entry


   TF    Dual Status                           Trans/ MPF
                                               Entry


   TG    DOE                    Officer        Entry Computer        C 39
                                Enlisted


   TH    Expiration Term of                    Entry Computer        C 39
         Service


   TI    Airman Pay Date,                      Trans MPF             C 39
         EAD Date and
         TAFMSD


   TJ    EAD/Prior DOE                         Entry Computer        C 53
1422                                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION                  KEY        USE          INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                                       SOURCE



   TK   Pay Date                               Entry Computer           C 39


   TL   Over Four Years                        Entry Computer           C 39, 53
        Active Enlisted
        Service


   TM   Prior Service Benefit                  Trans/ MPF               C 39
        Waiver                                 Entry


   TN   ACIP Dates                             Trans/ Computer          C 22
                                               Entry


   TP   Service Component                      Trans/ MPF               C 39
                                               Entry
                                G National
                                Guard
                                R Regular
                                T Temporary
                                V Reserve
                                N National
                                Guard
                                  Officer or
                                  Enlisted
                                S Reserve,
                                Officer
                                 or Enlisted


   TR   Special                                Trans/ MPF               C 34
        Compensation                           Entry
        Positions


   TS   Term of Enlistment                     Entry Computer           C 39, 53
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                               1423


FORMAT DESCRIPTION               KEY   USE            INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                               SOURCE



   TT    Total Active Federal          Entry Computer
         Military Service Date


   TU    DOS                           Trans/ MPF/Computer    C 39
                                       Entry


   TV    SPD Additional                Entry Computer         C 52


   TW    Special                       Entry Computer         C 34
         Compensation
         Position Indicator


   TX    Prior Service                 Entry Computer
         Indicator


   TY    Prior EAD and DOS             Entry Computer


   TZ    Officer Service Dates         Trans AFPC             C 39, 52


   T2    Sea Duty Dates                Trans/ FSO-A           C 19
                                       Entry

   01    Basic Pay                     Entry Computer         C8


   02    Foreign Language              Trans/ MPF             C 20
         Proficiency Pay               Entry


   09    Save Pay                      Trans/ DFAS-DE         C 75
                                       Entry


   10    Incentive Pay -               Trans/ FSO-A           C 23
         Demolition Duty               Entry
1424                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION                   KEY   USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                                    SOURCE



       11   Incentive Pay - Flight         Trans/ FSO-A               C 23
            Deck Duty                      Entry


   12       Flying Duty Pay                Trans/ FSO-A               C 22
                                           Entry


   14       Incentive Pay -                Trans/ FSO-A               C 23
            Leprosarium Duty               Entry


   15       Incentive Pay -                Trans/ FSO-A               C 23
            Parachute Jumping              Entry
            Duty


   16       Incentive Pay -                Trans/ FSO-A               C 23
            Stress/Toxic Fuel/             Entry
            Pesticide Duty


   17       Incentive Pay -                Trans/ FSO-A               C 19
            Submarine Duty                 Entry


   18       Overseas Extension             Trans/ MPF                 C 15
            Pay                            Entry


   19       Board Certification            Trans/ AFPC                C 10
            Pay                            Entry



   20       Variable Special Pay           Trans/ AFPC                C 10
            (Dentist)                      Entry
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           1425


FORMAT DESCRIPTION              KEY   USE            INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                               SOURCE


   21    Diving Duty Pay              Trans/ FSO             C 14
                                      Entry


   22    Foreign Duty Pay             Trans/ FSO-A           C 18
                                      Entry


   23    Hostile Fire/                Trans/ FSO-A           C 13
         Imminent Danger              Entry
         Pay


   24    Variable Special Pay         Trans/ AFPC            C 10
         (Physicians)                 Entry


   25    ASP, ISP, MSP or             Trans/ AFPC            C 10
         CRNA Bonus                   Entry


   26    Registered Nurse/            Trans/ AFPC            C 10
         Dental Officer               Entry
         Accession Bonus


   27    Career Sea Pay               Trans/ FSO-A           C 19
                                      Entry

   28    Veterinary Special           Trans/ FSO             C 10
         Pay                          Entry


   29    Optometry Special            Trans/ AFPC            C 10
         Pay                          Entry


   30    Special Duty                 Trans/ MPF             C 11
         Assignment Pay               Entry
1426                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION               KEY      USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                                   SOURCE


   31   Reenlistment Bonus                Trans/ Computer/DFAS-DE    C 12
                                          Entry


   32   Variable                          Trans/ Computer/DFAS-DE    C 17
        Reenlistment Bonus                Entry


   33   SRB                               Trans/ AFPC                C 12
                                          Entry


   34   SEB                               Trans/ Computer/MPF        C 12
                                          Entry


   35   BAQ                  Dependency   Trans/ FSO-T               C 26
                             Code         Entry
                             Quarters
                             Assignment
                             Code


   36   BAQ-DIFF                          Trans/ FSO-A               C 26
                                          Entry

   37   Career Sea Pay                    Trans/ FSO-A               C 19
        Premium                           Entry


   38   ACP                               Trans/ MPF                 C 16
                                          Entry


   39   Prorated or                       Trans/ FSO-T               C 25
        Supplemental BAS                  Entry
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                        1427


FORMAT DESCRIPTION           KEY   USE            INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                           SOURCE


   40    BAS                       Trans/ FSO-T           C 25
                                   Entry


   41    Personal Money            Entry Computer         C 34
         Allowance


   42    MIHA                      Trans/ FSO-A           C 30
                                   Entry


   43    OHA                       Trans/ FSO-A           C 30
                                   Entry


   44    Interim OHA               Trans/ FSO-A           C 30
                                   Entry


   45    Dual OHA                  Trans/ FSO-A           C 30
                                   Entry


   46    COLA                      Trans/ FSO-A           C 28
                                   Entry


   47    Dual COLA                 Trans/ FSO-A           C 28
                                   Entry


   49    Prorated COLA             Trans/ FSO-T           C 28
                                   Entry


   51    CONUS COLA                Trans/ FSO             C 28
                                   Entry


   55    OHA - pre 1990            Trans/ FSO-A           C 30
                                   Entry
1428                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION            KEY   USE            INPUT       REFERENCE
   ID                                            SOURCE



   56   Interim - OHA -             Trans/ FSO-A               C 30
        pre 1990                    Entry


   57   OHA -                       Trans/ FSO-A               C 30
        Unaccompanied with          Entry
        Dependents -
        pre 1990


   59   Uniform and                 Trans/ FSO-A               C 33
        Equipment                   Entry
        Allowance - Initial



   60   Uniform and                 Trans/ FSO                 C 33
        Equipment                   Entry
        Allowance -
        Additional


   61   Uniform and                 Entry/ FSO-A               C 33
        Equipment                   Trans
        Allowance - Extra


   63   Clothing                    Entry Computer             C 33
        Maintenance


   64   Initial Clothing            Trans/ Computer/FSO-A      C 33
        Allowance Monetary          Entry
        Portion


   65   FSA                         Entry/ FSO-A               C 27
                                    Trans


   66   Interim VHA                 Trans/ FSO-A               C 31
                                    Entry
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                  1429


FORMAT DESCRIPTION              KEY   USE            INPUT   REFERENCE
   ID                                              SOURCE




   67    Dual VHA                     Trans/ FSO-A           C 31
                                      Entry


   68    VHA                          Trans/ FSO-A           C 31
                                      Entry


   71    Disability Severance         Entry Computer         C 52
         Pay


   72    Discharge Gratuity           Entry Computer         C 52


   73    Lump-Sum Bonus               Entry Computer         C 53



   74    Lump-Sum Accrued             Entry Computer         C 44, 52, 53
         Leave


   76    Readjustment Pay             Entry Computer         C 52


   77    Severance Pay                Entry Computer         C 52


   78    Personal Expense             Entry Computer
         Allowance


   79    TLA                          Trans/ FSO             C 29
                                      Entry


   81    Initial Civilian             Trans/ FSO-A           C 33
         Clothing Allowance           Entry


   83    VSI                          Entry Computer
1430                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


FORMAT DESCRIPTION                    KEY         USE           INPUT       REFERENCE
      ID                                                        SOURCE



      84     SSB                                  Entry Computer


      85     Entitlement Advance                  Entry Computer
             for Advance Payment


      86     Quasi Advance                        Entry Computer


      97     Future/Suspense                      Trans DFAS-DE
             Entry


      98     Memo Entry                           Trans DFAS-DE


      99     Unique Transaction                   Trans DFAS-DE


Management Notices                               Notice Computer            A 22


SCREEN INQUIRIES

       W                                                FSO-A              C5

     Listed below are FORMAT IDs for special items.

WG         Futures

WJ         Fixed portion of MMPA

WU         Suspense

WW         Entitlements

WX         MMPA PRINTOUT

T13        MGIB DATA

T52        VEAP
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1431


                                             Attachment 20

                 TRANSACTIONS THAT WILL NOT PROCESS IN "T" STATUS

A20.1. The following transactions will reject to the input source if the member's record is in "T" status:


    DQ21                                  HA02           HB13
    DS01 (2, 5, B, E, F, H, L, M, N, V)   HA04           MG04 (IF NN/N7 ON MMPA)
    DT04                                  HA13           SA04
    FE01                                  HB01           SA06
    FE02                                  HB02
    HA01                                  HB04

A20.2. The following transactions reject to DFAS-DE for manual intervention if the member's record is
in "T" status:


    C106                                  PB05           SU04
    C206                                  PB06           TR05
    DB04                                  SB02*          2001
    DB05                                  SJ04           2501
    DB06                                  SK04           2805
    PB03                                  SP02           2905

* "P" Type status T4

A20.3. The following transactions can only be processed by DFAS-DE if the member's record is in "T"
status:


    SJ03                                  SK03           SP06
    SJ06                                  SK06           1903

A20.4. All other transactions should process if the member's record is in "T" status. If you discover one
that will not, notify your MAJCOM. MAJCOMs notify DFAS-DE/FJY.
1432                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           Attachment 21

                   SYSOUT ARCHIVE AND RETRIEVAL (SAR) SOFTWARE
                          USE INSTRUCTIONS (MAINFRAME)

A21.1. ACCESSING SAR.
   A21.1.1. Sign onto the AMDAHL with your normal user identification and password:


              User-ID ==> JCXXX00
              Password ==> XXXXXXX
              New Password ==>


(The X’s in the User-ID and Password fields represent your unique information. The first two positions
of the user identification for DFAS-DE Central Site is JC and looks like the example above. The user
identification for ANG and AFR should look like PXXXX00 where the XXXX is unique to each user.
The user identification for base level users looks something like JXXXX00 where the XXXX is unique to
each user.


Press <ENTER>.


   A21.1.2. Select CICS01 or CICSJ3 at the next screen, and press <ENTER>.
   A21.1.3. Once your screen displays the message, “Sign on is complete,” type “SAR” and press
   <ENTER>. You will receive the screen as shown in attached EXAMPLE 1.

A21.2. SETTING UP SAR FOR FIRST TIME USE.
   A21.2.1. Tab back to the Command Line ===>, and type the following:


       MODE EXP


Press <ENTER>. This sets up your access in an express mode and allows you to get your reports faster.


   A21.2.2. The next step is to set up the default for the reports category you will be working with the
   most. Available DISTRIBUTION IDs are listed at the end of these instructions. Type the following
   at the COMMAND LINE ===> to set up your report default:


       MODE JFAFSO (or other DISTRIBUTION ID as applicable)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1433


Press <ENTER>.


   A21.2.3. Your DISTRIBUTION ID ---> should be set, based on Step ‘b’ above.
   A21.2.4. Set the REPORT ID ===> to “*” (asterisk) (no quotes). This will provide every report for
   that particular distribution ID displayed. A list of the reports available for each DISTRIBUTION ID
   is provided at the end of these instructions.
   A21.2.5. At the SELECTION BY COPY: PREVIOUS COPY NO. ===> field, type the word “ALL”
   (no quotes) to get all available versions of the report(s) requested.
   A21.2.6. You do not have to complete the SELECTION BY DATE: field unless you only want a spe-
   cific date report.
   A21.2.7. Once all fields are completed, press <ENTER>.

A21.3. CHANGING YOUR SAR DEFAULTS. The instructions provided in item 2 above will be used
to change your default settings.
   A21.3.1. To change the DISTRIBUTION ID, go to the COMMAND LINE ===>, type the new report
   identification after the word MODE, and press <ENTER>.
   A21.3.2. To change the REPORT ID ===> (if you know the report job number), enter the applicable
   number. Example: REPORT ID ===> MP19809D

A21.4. REPORT VIEWING. The next screen will give you a list of the report(s) you selected.
   A21.4.1. To select a report for viewing, use your TAB key to move down to the line which displays
   the correct report name and date, and type an “S” (no quotes) and press <ENTER>.
   A21.4.2. The next screen will display your report on-line. To view full width of the report, move your
   cursor into the body of the report and ARROW KEY over to the right. You will have to move back
   and forth across the screen to view the report using your arrow keys. Or press the PF10 or PF11 key
   to move left or right. PF8 pages down. PF7 pages up.
   A21.4.3. To exit the report, press PF3.

A21.5. ARCHIVED REPORTS. If the report you want reads PTAP under the heading LOC, the report
is archived.
   A21.5.1. To unarchive a report tab down to the report and type in L. Press <ENTER>. This will load
   the report. Do this for each report you need.
   A21.5.2. To send your loaded reports to the main frame, at the COMMAND LINE ===>, type SUB,
   and press <ENTER>.
   A21.5.3. When the JOB screen appears, press <ENTER>.
   A21.5.4. The report will then show up as PTMP. For this change to take place, you must be off this
   screen. Either work on another report or go back (alt 3) to the screen with Distribution ID, then go
   back to the reports list. It should change within 3-5 minutes. It will remain active for 24 hours.

A21.6. SEARCH (FIND) WITHIN A REPORT.
1434                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


   A21.6.1. To do a find while in a report:
       A21.6.1.1. Type F at the COMMAND LINE ===>, type ‘F’, space, apostrophe (‘), what you are
       looking for, apostrophe (‘). EXAMPLE: F ‘ADSN: 3344’.
       A21.6.1.2. If you are looking for just a number, type a space on both sides of the number you are
       looking for. EXAMPLE: f ‘3344’
       A21.6.1.3. Key in exactly how the information you are looking for appears in the report. EXAM-
       PLE: If looking for a SSN, some reports have dashes (F ‘111-22-3333’), and some do not (F
       ‘111223333’)
   A21.6.2. To repeat a find, key ALT5 (or on some PCs PF5.)

A21.7. PRINTING REPORTS.
   A21.7.1. To print an entire report on your PC:
       A21.7.1.1. At the Report Selection List screen, tab down to the report you wish to print and type
       a “P” (no quotes) by the report title and date you wish printed. Then press ENTER.
       A21.7.1.2. The next screen will show the REPORT ID of the report you selected and Description.
       There will be a box on the screen. If you are a first-time user, you may need to enter the following:


              CLASS ===> V
              DEST ===> PC.JXXXXXX or VP0.(your printer writer
                                              name. JXXXXXX is your personal user
                                              identification.)


       A21.7.1.3. Press <ENTER> if the data displayed is correct.
       A21.7.1.4. The next screen, EXPRESS DELIVERY RE-PRINT RESULTS, gives you the mes-
       sage that the job (sysout) is queued for transmittal to PC.
   A21.7.2. To print report to a printer, enter the following:


                      CLASS ===> V
                      DEST ===> VP0.your printer writer name
                      .AFO####*
                      (#### is your ADSN)
                       (*is 1,2,3,4 or 5)


   A21.7.3. There may be times you only want to print specific pages of a report, or download a file of
   the report which only contains specific pages of that report. Example: You have a 700 page report,
   but you only want pages 15 through 50. To print specific pages of the report:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1435


       A21.7.3.1. Type an “S” by the report you need to open the report for viewing.
       A21.7.3.2. Scroll down (press your PF8 key) until you get to page 15. At the Command Line
       ===>, type “MARK PAGE” (no quotes) and press <ENTER>. Scroll down to the last page you
       want printed. At the Command Line ===>, type “MARK PAGE” and press <ENTER>.
       A21.7.3.3. Now, press your PF3 key to exit the report. You should now be back at the Report
       Selection List screen. Tab down to the report you wish to print and type a “P” (no quotes) by the
       report title and date you wish printed. Then press ENTER.
       A21.7.3.4. The next screen will show the REPORT ID of the report you selected and Description.
       There will be a box on the screen. If you are a first-time user, you may need to enter the following:


              CLASS ===> V
              DEST ===> PC.JXXXXXX or VP0.AFO####* or VP0.(PRINTER
              WRITER NAME) or VPS if VP0 doesn’t work


(JXXXXXX is your personal user identification, #### is your ADSN, *is 1,2,3,4 or 5)


       A21.7.3.5. Press <ENTER> if the data displayed is correct.
       A21.7.3.6. The next screen, EXPRESS DELIVERY RE-PRINT RESULTS, gives you the mes-
       sage that the job (sysout) is queued for transmittal to PC.

A21.8. EXIT SAR.
   A21.8.1. Press your PF3 key until you get the screen with the message, “Cross Memory SAR has ter-
   minated normally - this session is ended.” You can also type END at the command line.
   A21.8.2. If you also wish to exit DJMS, type CSSF LOGOFF and press <ENTER>. Your terminal
   should go back to the initial sign on screen.
1436                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


EXAMPLE 1. SYSOUT ARCHIVE AND RETRIEVAL (SAR) SCREEN




VIEW 1.6.7 EXP -- PRIMARY SELECTION FOR SYSA.VIEW.V167 ---------- PREVAIL/XP
COMMAND ===>


DISTRIBUTION ID ---> JFAREG


REPORT ID  ===> *                    SELECT BY ===>                    (R, I OR IR)
INDEX NAME ===>                      VALUE ===>
           ===>                           ===>
              ===>                         ===>
              ===>                         ===>


SELECTION BY COPY:
PREVIOUS COPY NO. ===>                          (Enter 0 or blank for most recent copy, 1 for
                                                next most recent copy, etc., or ALL for all
                                                copies.)


SELECTION BY DATE:
FROM                     ===>                   (MM/DD/YY)
TO / NO. OF DAYS         ===>                   (MM/DD/YY or nnn)




           Enter END command to terminate this VIEW 1.6.7 session.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                  1437


REPORT DISTRIBUTION IDs


J**REG             REGULAR REPORTS
J**SOMP            SOMPO
J**FSO             FIELD SERVICE OFFICE
J**DTR             DAILY TRANSACTION RECORD                AF100RF####            JACFAD
J**MAFR            VOUCHER BALANCING                       AF173RF####            JHAAGD
J**RECYL           RECYCLE RPTS
J**CCT1            ACCOUNTING
J**MGMT            MANAGEMENT REPORTS
J**TAX             TAX
J**RECRT           RECRT LIST####AFADSN                    JYAAAMRE
                   ####AFSSAN
J**ADET            CADETS
JFJROTC            JUNIOR ROTC INSTRUCTOR
JNUSNA             NAVY MIDSHIPMEN


NOTE 1: Replace asterisk (*) in second and third position with following applicable code:


1st *                                 2nd *


F - AIR FORCE                         C - CADETS
A – ARMY                              A - ACTIVE
N – NAVY                              R - RESERVE
                                      J - ROTC


NOTE 2: The following are the current Distribution IDs available for Navy: JNADTR, JNAMGMT, and
JNARECYL.
1438                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                      LIST OF REPORTS FOR EACH
                           DISTRIBUTION ID


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


FA0009M          DUP MP/ACCAS CASE REPORT
FA0013M          AF VHA STATISTICS
FA0099M          MISC IN DEBT CK
FA0101M          SECONDARY DEPN
FA0102D          MGMT. NOTICES
FA0103M          OUTGOING AUTODIN
FA0104D1         AUTODIN LOG
FA0104D2         AUTODIN LOG
FA0104M          AUTODIN LOG
FA0110W          JOTS VERIFICATION RPT
FA0117M          SAF INPUT ERRORS RPT
FA0144M          POST-SEP TIMELINESS RPT
FA0149M          ENLISTED BAS STRENGTH
FA0169B          INPUT VALIDATION
FA0170B          COMPOSITE CHECK DETAILS
FA0170D          COMP BLNKT CO LIST
FA0175D          EFTS DATA
FA0179D          EFTS ERRORS
FA0181D          INPUT AUTODIN
FA0184A          AUTHORIZATION CONTROL
FA0184D          AUTHORIZATION CONTROL
FA0184M          AUTHORIZATION CONTROL
FA0186A          ADSN OUT OF BALANCE
FA0186D          ADSN OUT OF BALANCE
FA0186M          ADSN OUT OF BALANCE
FA0188A          IN/OUT BALANCE
FA0188D          IN/OUT BALANCE
FA0188M          IN/OUT BALANCE
FA0190B          EFT TABLE 50
FA0190D          EFT TABLE 50
FA0193B          STATISTICAL DATA LIST
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                     1439


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


FA0194B            EFTS ACCTNG CNTRLS
FA0194D            EFTS ACCTNG CNTRLS
FA0198N            ERROR LISTING
FA0198N1           ERROR LISTING (JSA65)
FA0198N2           ERROR LISTING (COLA)
FA0198N3           ERROR LISTING (OHA)
FA0198N4           RPT LISTN CURRENCY CODES
FA0198N5           ERROR TBL 64
FA0198N6           ERROR LIST
FA0200N            TRANS-ID M U T
FA0202M            FIELD INQUIRIES
FA0205M            PAY AUTHORIZATION UPDATE
FA0206B            CHECKS TO BANKS CONTROLS
FA0210B            TRANSMITTAL REGISTER
FA0210D            DLY EFT TRANSMIT REG
FA0210M            TRANSMITAL REG
FA0210MAZM         TRANSMISSION REG
FA0210MDAM         TRANSMISSION REG
FA0211B            FED RESERVE ERROR REPORT
FA0211D            FED RESERVE ERROR REPORT
FA0211M            FED RESERVE ERROR REPORT
FA0211MAZM         ERROR LIST DATA
FA0211MDAM         ERROR LIST DATA
FA0212B            REEL CONTROL LIST
FA0212M            TAPE BAL ERR/XTRCT DATA
FA0212MAZM         FED RES BAL/EXTR DATA
FA0212MDAM         FED RES BAL/EXTR DATA
FA0214B            FOREIGN CHECK LISTING
FA0246M            BLKT CO VOU LIST
FA0248M            BLKT CO ERROR LST
FA0252MMP          CURR ISSUE BOND CNTRL RPT
FA0256MMP          VA DEBIT REGISTER
FA0257MMP          VA INACT DEBIT ADJ
FA0258MMP          VA CREDIT REGISTER
1440                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


FA0259MMP        VA INACT CREDIT ADJUSTMENT
FA0260MMP        RETRO TOTALS/SUMMARY
FA0261MMP        VA CLASS N SUMMARY
FA0263N          TBL 50 A.C.D.
FA0264N          SALARY OFFSET - MEMBERS
FA0281M          MEMB NOT ON LES OD
FA0308MH         MMPA HEX PRINTSCHG
FA0309M          CROSS CHECK MTCH
FA0313D          SDAP MGMT
FA0314M          SDAP
FA0318M          DS DEBTS F & M
FA0320M          MER ERROR MSGS
FA0321B          ERROR RPT LOCAL SUPPRESS
FA0322B          TRANS RPT LOCAL SUPPRESS
FA0323B          DUP P511S ON LOC MASTER
FA0324B          INDIV CHECK TOTALS RPT
FA0325B          MIL PAYROLL VOUCHER RPT
FA0326B          IBOP REPORT
FA0331M          NO AFMPC
FA0333D          MIL PAY MONEY LIST
FA0339M          JUMPS MIX INDEBT
FA0341D          CNFRN DLY EFT PMT RPT
FA0342M          AUTH PMT PARTL/CASUL
FA0343D          MISC INDEBT REPORT
FA0344D          DAILY EFTS BALANCING
FA0352D          RECYCLE TRANSACTIONS
FA0380M          USSDPT ALLOT
FA0391A          PG TOTALS ADSN
FA0391D          PG TOTALS ADSN
FA0391M          PG TOTALS ADSN
FA0394D          MPACCS STATUS RPT
FA0402D          RECS DROPPED DEF LST
FA0407N          PDTATAC INPUT
FA0408N          PDTATAC REJECT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                    1441


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


FA0416M            CUSTODY BOND CONTROL RPT
FA0450D            DUP P5 OR NOP5 PRESENT
FA0450M            DUP P5 OR NOP5 PRESENT
FA0451D            C P5EOM AMT NE MMPA AMT
FA0451M            C P5EOM AMT NE MMPA AMT
FA0452D            L P5 EOM AMT NE MMPA AMT
FA0452M            L P5 EOM AMT NE MMPA AMT
FA0453D            P5 BUT NOT IN PAY STATUS
FA0453M            P5 BUT NOT IN PAY STATUS
FA0457D            ADSN < 4000 - MAILING
FA0457M            REEL CONTROL LIST
FA0481M            DS DEBTS DDMS
FA0505M            GEOLOC MONTHLY
FA0506M            GEOLOC ANN.
FA0512M            BEGIN/END SEQUENCE NBRS
FA0516MMP          VA VOUCHER TOTALS
FA0517D            NOC ERROR LIST
FA0518D            NOC ALLOT LIST
FA0520M            C19HCFAA CNTRL TOTALS
FA0523MMP          BREAKOUT CONTROL TOTALS
FA0525D            INPUT FILES
FA0539M            5YR TAX HIST-TD FORMS
FA0539N            5YR TAX HIST-TD FORMS
FA0548M            CHG LEGAL RES
FA0555M            ADDRESS ERRORS
FA0557M            TRANS NO CH ISSUE
FA0603N            IAS FILE SAMPLING
FA0627D            DEFER PROC STAT
FA0633B            REJECTED PAY SUPPRESSION
FA0634B            PROCESSED PAY SUPPRESSES
FA0634D            PROCESSED PAY SUPPRESSES
FA0635D            NON-TRANS AUTODIN
FA0635M            NON-TRANS AUTODIN
FA0636M            REINPUT INVALID DATA
1442                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


FA0641D          AUTODIN LOG
FA0722D          DEF TRANS/REG
FA0724Q          SAVING BOND RECON
FA0724QT         SAVING BOND TOTALS PAGE
FA0725M          BOND ALLOTMENTS TOTALS
FA0738M          9840 PRINTS
FA0740Y          ECONOMIC RESOURCE IMPACT STATEMENT (ERIS) –
                 AVAILABLE EOM SEPTEMBER FOR 30 DAYS THEN
                 AVAILABLE AS AN ARCHIVED REPORT
FA0760D          DUP PAYMENT REPORT
FA0761D          INVALID PAYMENT REPORT
FA0764W          FINAL SEP MSG OVER 30DAY
FA0765D          MESSAGE MATCH
FA0766N          MPS MIL PAY VOUCH RPT
FA079AM          SOC SEC TAX RECON RPT
FA079BM          APEIC TAX RECON RPT
FA079CM          MEDICARE TAX RECON RPT
FA079DM          FITW RECON RPT
FA079EM          SITW RECON RPT
FA079FM          P9 TAX RECON RPT
FA0794N          ACF MIL PAY VOUCH RPT
FA0795N          JUMPS SEPERATION CHK TOT
FA0796MMP        MMPA VALUE FOR UNISSUED
FA0801D          TRANS NUMB CTL
FA0809DMP        UNCLEARED NQ & PX ENTRYS
FA0828DMP        MMPAS NOT INTERROGATED
FA0829DMP        OUT OF BALANCE MMPA
FA0830DMP        MMPA SIZE STATISTICS
FA0845DMP        ADSNS >= 4000
FA0849WMP        WEEKLY CONTENTBOOK
FA0855N2         MEMBERS IN ‘T’ STATUS
FA0860M          VEAP REJ ADJS
FA0866M          MANUAL REVIEW
FA0867N          MAT UPDATE AUDIT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                      1443


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


FA0868M            PFY PTMNTS/SPPRSSNS
FA0869M            OUT PFY 1TIME PAY AUTHS
FA0870M            CANCELED PFY PAYMENTS
FA0871M            PFY PYMNT/SPPRESS SUMMARY
FA0886M            SRB REPORT
FA0888M            SRB TOTALS PAY/RECOOP
FA0940M            LOST APPEL LV
FA0940MJEA         LOST APPEL LV
FA0984N            BOND ADDRESS CHANGE
FA0989M            OFFICER DATA LIST
FA0994B            ACCT NBRS > 17 POSITIONS
FA790C03MP         AFTER SEP INDEBTNESS
FA790E07MP         OPEN SEPARATION PAYMENTS
H099C-034          ADVANCE PAYMENTS FOR HOLA
H099C-969          HEALTH PROF ANN SPEC PAY
H099C110WAF        JOTS VERIFICATION RPT
H099C013MAF        VHA STATISTICS (MS111)
H099C0144M         POST-SEP TIMELINESS RPT
H099C0079AF        SOC SEC TAX RECON RPT
H099C0079BF        APEIC TAX RECON RPT
H099C0079CF        MEDICARE TAX RECON RPT
H099C0079DF        FITW RECON RPT
H099C0079EF        SITW RECON RPT
H099C0079FF        P9 TAX RECON RPT
H099C117M          SAF INPUT ERRORS RPT
H099C149M          ENLISTED BAS STRENGTH
H099C169B          INPUT VALIDATION
H099C170B          COMPOSITE/BLKT CO. LIST
H099C190B          TABLE 50 NON-MATCHES
H099C193B          STATISTICAL DATA
H099C194B          ACCOUNTING CONTROLS
H099C194DAF        EFTS ACCTNG CNTRLS DAILY
H099C206B          CHECKS TO BANKS CNTRL LIST
H099C208B          AUTODIN HEADERS/TRAILERS
1444                                          AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


H099C210AF       TRANSMISSION REGISTER
H099C210B        TRANSMITTAL REGISTER
H099C211AF       ERROR LIST DATA
H099C211B        ERROR REPT FED RES PROCESS
H099C212AF       FEDERAL RESERVE TOTALS
H099C212B        REEL CONTROL LIST
H099C214B        FOREIGN CHECKS
H099C246         BLKT CO VOU LIST
H099C290Y        LEAVE DAYS LOST
H099C314MAF      SDAP
H099C321B        ERR RPT - LOCAL SUPPRESSES
H099C322B        TRANS RPT - LOC SUPPRESSES
H099C323B        DUP P511S ON LOCAL MASTER
H099C324B        INDIVIDUAL CHECK TOTAL RPT
H099C325B        MIL PAYROLL VOUCHER REPORT
H099C326B        INTERNATL BAL OF PAYMENTS
H099C394D        MP-ACCS ACTIVITY REPORT
H099C407AF       PDTATAC INPUT
H099C408AF       PDTATAC REJECT
H099C416M        CUSTODY BOND CONTROL RPT
H099C512M        BEGIN/END SEQUENCE NBRS
H099C548M03      CHG LEGAL RES
H099C634B        PROCESSED PAY SUPPRESSIONS
H099C725M        BOND ALLOTMENTS TOTALS
H099C760AF       DUP PAYMENT REPORT
H099C761AF       INVALID PAYMENT REPORT
H099C764AF       FINAL SEP MSG OVER 30DAY
H099C765AF       MESSAGE MATCH
HO99C766AF       MPS MIL PAY VOUCH RPT
HO99C794AF       ACF MIL PAY VOUCH RPT
HO99C795AF       JUMPS SEPERATION CHK TOT
H099C871M17      PRIOR FY TOTALS
H099C994B        ACCT NBRS EXCEED 17 CHARS
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                      1445


JFAREG - REGULAR REPORTS


H119-051
     052
     053
     100
MP-19-252M         CURR ISSUE BOND CNTRL RPT
MP-19-256M         VA DEBIT REGISTER
MP-19-257M         VA INACT DEBIT ADJ
MP-19-258M         VA CREDIT REGISTER
MP-19-259M         VA INACT CREDIT ADJUSTMENT
MP-19-260M         RETRO TOTALS/SUMMARY
MP-19-261M         VA CLASS N SUMMARY
MP-19-320AF        MER ERROR MSGS - JEBASM
MP-19-333          MIL PAY MONEY LIST
MP-19-346          NET INDEBTDNESS INCURRED
MP-19-516M         VA VOUCHER TOTALS
MP-19-845          EXTRACTED RECORD IMAGE
MP-19-845M         X REC IM/H099C598 TOO
MP-19-875          BAQ REBATE BY GRADE
MP-19-876          BAQ GVT-QTRS-ADQCY ERROR
MP-19-877          AF ASSIGNED GOVT QTRS
MP19200N           TRANS-ID MULTI-USE TABLE
MP19343D           MISC INDEBT REPORT
MP19523M           BREAKOUT CONTROL TOTALS
MP19790C03         AFTER SEP INDEBTNESS 03
MP19790C05         AFTER SEP INDEBTNESS 05
MP19790C06         AFTER SEP INDEBTNESS 06
MP19790E07         OPEN SEPARATION PAYMENTS
MP19796M           MMPA VALUE FOR UNISSUED
MP19828AFD97       MMPAs NOT INTERROGATED
MP19829AFD97       OUT OF BALANCE MMPA
MP19830AFD97       MMPA SIZE STATISTICS
1446                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



JFASOMP – SOMPO


FA0069M             SCHEDULE 9 DATA
FA0069MS            SCHEDULE 9 DATA
FA0115M             DELETED D CO CODES
FA0146MA            AFR SECTION OFFICER
FA0146MB            ANG SECTION OFFICER
FA0146MC            ANG AFR SECTUIB OFFICER
FA0146MD            AFR SECTUIB OFFICER
FA0150D1XPD         REG DAILY 150 - JFAXPD
FA0150M1SUM         REG DAILY 150 - JFASUM
FA0150M1XUM         REG DAILY SOMPO - JFAXUM
FA0150M2SUM         REG SOMPO - SECTION II
FA0152M             JTR STATION ALLOWANCES
FA0160D1SUM         REG DAILY 160 - JFASUM
FA0160D1XPD         REG DAILY 160 - JFAXPD
FA0160M1SUM         REG MONTHLY 160 - JFASUM
FA0160M1XUM         REG DAILY 160 - JFAXUM
FA0164M             REG FORCES STRENGTH RPT
FA0165M             DR TRANSACTIONS
FA0166M             DS TRANSACTIONS
FA0167M             SA VS MMPA - ALLOTMENTS
FA0187M             SUM REIMB & DISB
FA0380M             USSDP RPT
FA0639M             639 DATA FILE
FA0642M             HELD PAY RECON DISCREPS
FA0991M             MISC INDEBT CO CD CK
H099C0069M,S        SCHEDULE 9 DATA
H099C146A,B,C,D,M   ANG, AFR SECTUIB OFFICER
H099C150DIS         REG DAILY 150 - JFASUM
H099C150DX          REG DAILY 150 - JFAXPD
H099C150M           REG DAILY SOMPO - JFAXUM
H099C150MII         REG SOMPO - SECTION II
H099C152M           JTR STATION ALLOWANCES
H099C160DS          REG DAILY 160 - JFASUM
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                         1447


JFASOMP – SOMPO


H099C160DX             REG DAILY 160 - JFAXPD
H099C160M              REG DAILY 160 - JFAXUM
H099C160MS             REG MONTHLY 160 - JFASUM
H099C164M              REG FORCES STRENGTH RPT
H099C165M              DR TRANSACTIONS
H099C166M              DS TRANSACTIONS
H099C167M              SA VS MMPA - ALLOTMENTS
H099C639M              639 DATA FILE
H099C642MAF            HELD PAY RECON DISCREPS


JFAFSO - FIELD SERVICE OFFICE


FA0081M                JUMPS TO DARS DEBTS
FA0081Q                MIL - MIL BAQ
FA0141S                TAXING AUTHORITY
FA0464Q                OFF SVC COMP & SVC DISC
FA0465Q                ENL SVC COMP & SVC DISC
FA0466Q                OFFICER SEX CODE DISC
FA0467Q                ENLISTED SEX CODE DISC
FA0468Q                OFF GRADE/DT OF GRD DISC
FA0469Q                ENL GRADE/DT OF GRD DISC
FA0470Q                OFFICER ASD & OSD DISC
FA0471Q                DEPENDENCY DISCREPANCIES
FA0471Q                ENLISTED ASD & OSD DISC
FA0809D                UNCLEARED NQ & PX ENTRYS
FA0847SQMP             QUESTIONABLE INDEBTEDNESS
FA0847SSMP             SUSPENDED INDEBTEDNESS
FA0847STMP             INDEBTEDNESS AF TOTALS
H099C0081QAF           MIL - MIL BAQ
H099C081               JUMPS TO DARS DEBTS
H099C464QAF            OFF SVC COMP & SVC DISC
H099C465QAF            ENL SVC COMP & SVC DISC
H099C466QAF            OFFICER SEX CODE DISC
1448                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


JFAFSO - FIELD SERVICE OFFICE


H099C467QAF            ENLISTED SEX CODE DISC
H099C468QAF            OFF GRADE/DT OF GRD DISC
H099C469QAF            ENL GRADE/DT OF GRD DISC
H099C470QAF            OFFICER ASD & OSD DISC
H099C471Q              DEPENDENCY DISCREPANCIES
H099C471QAF            ENLISTED ASD & OSD DISC
H135A397D              CASES OPEN SSN SEQ
MP-19-847SQ            QUESTIONABLE INDEBTEDNESS
MP-19-847SS            SUSPENDED INDEBTEDNESS
MP-19-847ST            INDEBTEDNESS AF TOTALS
MP19809D               UNCLEARED NQ & PX ENTRYS
T-W2RES                TOTAL W2 REISSUE


JFADTR - DAILY TRANSACTION RECORD


AF100RF                UH099C100


JFAMAFR - VOUCHER BALANCING


AF173RF                MAFR RECON SECTION 1-4


JFARECYL - RECYCLE RPTS


FA0133D                RECYCLE RPTS
MP19133AF              RECYCLE RPTS - JACFGD
MP19133D               RECYCLE RPTS - JACFGD
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                             1449


JFACCT1 - ACCOUNTING


FA0A14D                JUMPS/MAFR SUMMARY RPT
FA0173D5               MAFR RECON SECTION 5
FA0177D                MAFR/OTHERS FOR AIR RPT
FA0178D                ERROR REPORT
H099CA14D              JUMPS/MAFR SUMMARY RPT
MP19173D5              MAFR RECON SECTION 5
MP19177D               MAFR/OTHERS FOR AIR RPT
MP19178D               ERROR REPORT


JFAMGMT - MANAGEMENT REPORTS


FA0109M                JUMPS REJECT ANALYSIS
FA0114M                MGMT RPT 1
FA0116M                2
FA0118M                3
FA0120M                4
FA0122M                5
FA0126M                8
FA0128M                STAT RPT - SGLI
FA0130M                STAT RPT - PCS
FA0142Q                DIR DEP BY GRADE/ADSN
FA0270MA               TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART A
FA0270MB               TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART B
FA0270MC               TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART C
FA0270MD               TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART D
FA0270ME               TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART E
FA0270MF               TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART F
FA0571M                IMMINENT DANGER PAY
H099C0571MAF           IMMINENT DANGER PAY
H099C142Q              DIR DEP BY GRADE/ADSN
H099C270A              TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART A
H099C270B              TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART B
H099C270C              TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART C
1450                                        AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


JFAMGMT - MANAGEMENT REPORTS


H099C270D           TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART D
H099C270E           TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART E
H099C270F           TRANSACTION TIMELINESS PART F


JFATAX - TAX


FA0163D             DAILY 163 RPT - JFAXPD
FA0163M1SUM         MONTHLY 163 RPT - JFASUM
FA0163M1XUM         DAILY 163 RPT - JFAXUM
FA0235M             MNT DNGR ADJ 4 SEP MEMBR
FA0249M             CMBTZ TAX X ADJ 4 SEPMEM
FA0447M             TAX DATA MAY BE IN ERROR
FA0448M             MEM DRCT SPRT, C2OPS ADSN
FA0449M             MEM DRCT SPRT, C2OPS MCOM
FA0598M             TAXABLE WAGES/WITHHLDNGS
FA0604Q             SSA RPTD DATA - DETAIL
FA0612Q             NAME OR SSAN CHANGE ONLY
FA0613Q             NUMERIC EDITS FAILED RPT
FA0614Q             QTR DUTY-TOTALS TO SSA
FA0837M             STATE WITHHOLDING
FA0838M             STATE WITHHOLD (D)
FA0839M             EARNED INCOME CREDIT
H099C-638           GWAM MONTHLY FITW REPORT
H099C598M           TAXABLE WAGES
H099C163D           DAILY 163 RPT - JFAXPD
H099C163M           DAILY 163 RPT - JFAXUM
H099C447M           TAX DATA MAY BE IN ERROR
H099C837M           STATE WITHHOLDING
H099C838M           STATE WITHHOLD (D)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                          1451


JFARECRT


####AFADSN
####AFSSAN



JFCADET - CADETS


FA0938M                DJ TRANSACTIONS
FA0939M                DK TRANSACTIONS
FC0150XPD              AFA DAILY 150 - JFAXPD
FC0150M1SUM            AFA DAILY 150 - JFASUM
FC0150M1XUM            AFA DAILY SOMPO - JFAXUM
FC0150M2SUM            AFA SOMPO - SECTION II
FC0160D1SUM            AFA DAILY 160 - JFASUM
FC0160D1XPD            AFA DAILY A60 - JFAXPD
FC0160M1SUM            AFA DAILY 160 - JFASUM
FC0160M1XUM            AFA MONTHLY 160 - JFAXUM
FC0164M                AFA CADETS STRENGTH RPT
FC0921M                STD CADET DEDUCTS - CLOSED
FC0922M                MON RECURRING DEBTS PART 1
FC0923M                MON RECURRING DEBTS PART 2
FC0924M                CADET ANNUAL DEBTS
FC0925M                ONE-TIME NON-RECUR DEBTS
FC0926M                CADET TRAVEL REPORT
FC0927M                CADET STATUS REPORT
FC0928M                CADET BAS PAYMENTS
FC0929M                CADET HELD PAY STATUS
FC0930M                O_O_S ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
FC0931M                CADET COLLECTIONS, SPECIAL
FC0932M                STD CADET DEDUCTS - OPEN
FC0938M                DJ TRANSACTIONS
FC0939M                DK TRANSACTIONS
FC0945M                CADET PK TRANS - MONTHLY
H099C150DCX            AFA DAILY 150 - JFAXPD
1452                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


JFCADET - CADETS


H099C150DICS       AFA DAILY 150 - JFASUM
H099C150MC         AFA DAILY SOMPO - JFAXUM
H099C150MIIC       AFA SOMPO - SECTION II
H099C923           MON RECURRING DEBTS PART 2
H099C924           CADET ANNUAL DEBTS
H099C925           ONE-TIME NON-RECUR DEBTS
H099C926           CADET TRAVEL REPORT
H099C927           CADET STATUS REPORT
H099C928           CADET BAS PAYMENTS
H099C929           CADET HELD PAY STATUS
H099C930           O_O_S ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
H099C931           CADET COLLECTIONS, SPECIAL
H099C932           STD CADET DEDUCTS - OPEN
H099C938M          DJ TRANSACTIONS
H099C939M          DK TRANSACTIONS
H099C945           CADET PK TRANS - MONTHLY
H099C946M          CHCK CANCEL/DEBT COLLECT
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                           1453


                                      Attachment 22

                    AIR FORCE IN-PUT SOURCE INDICATOR (ISI) /
               ACCOUNTING AND DISBURSING STATION NUMBERS (ADSN)
                             IN ISI/ADSN SEQUENCE


ADSN     CMD      CMD
 ISI     NAME      ID           SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS               STATUS     MPF ID


4001   PACAF      0R    343 WG, EIELSON AFB, AK 99702                  E - 3/93     EH
4002   PACAF      0R    51 WG, KUNSAN AB, APO AP 96278                 E - 4/93     KU
4003   PACAF      0R    432 FW, MISAWA AB, APO AP 96319                E - 5/93     MO
4004   USAFE      0D    7241 ABG, IZMIR AB, APO AE 09821               E - 7/92      IN
4005   PACAF      0R    18 WG, KADENA AB, APO AP 96368                 E - 6/93     KB
4008   USAFE      0D    52 FW/FMFP, SPANGDAHLEM, APO AE 09126          E - 2/94      ST
4011   USAFE      0D    48 CPTS/FMFPM, LAKENHEATH AB, APO AE 09464     E - 1/95     LD
4012   AMC        1L    89 AW/FMFP, ANDREWS AFB, MD 20331              E - 10/94    AU
4013   USAFE      0D    470 ABF/FMFP, GEILENKIRCHEN AB, APO AE 09104 E - 10/94
4015   USAFE      0D    86 CPTS/FMFP, RAMSTEIN, APO AE 09094-0006      E - 3/95     RF
4016   USAFE      0D    100 CPTS/FMFP, MILDENHALL, APO AE 09459-0006   E - 4/95     ML
4017   USAFE      0D    31 CPTS/FMFPM, AVIANO, APO AE 09601-0006       E - 5/95     AY
4018   USAFE      0D    39 CPTF/FMFP, INCIRLIK AFB, APO AE 09824       E - 7/95      IN
4019   PACAF      0R    51 WG, OSAN AFB, APO 92678                                  OP
4020   ACC        1C    55 WG/FMFP, OFFUTT AFB, NE 681113-5000         E - 3/95     OD
4021   AETC       0J    97 CPTS/FMFP, ALTUS AFB, OK 73523-5000         E - 4/95     AM
4022   ACC        1C    28 BW/FMFP, ELLSWORTH AFB, SD 57706-5000       E - 6/95      EJ
4023   AETC       0J    314 CPTS/FMFFS, LITTLE ROCK AFB, AR 72099      E - 7/95      LP
4024   AMC        1C    319 CPTS/FMFP, GRAND FORKS AFB, NE 58205       E - 2/96     GM
4025   ACC        1C    351 CPTS, WHITEMAN AFB, MO 65305               E - 12/96    WT
4026   AMC        1C    22 CPTS/FMFP, MCCONNELL AFB, KS 67221          E - 11/96    MK
4027   AMC        1L    375 AW, SCOTT AFB, IL 62225                    E - 5/96      SF
4028   AETC       0J    71 CPTS/FMFPM, VANCE AFB, OK 73705             E - 11/95    VH
4029   SPACECMD 1S      21 SPW/FMFP, PETERSON AFB, CO 80914            E - 7/96      EP
4030   USAFA      0B    USAFA/FMFPM, USAF ACADEMY, CO 80840            E - 4/97     US
4031   ACC        1C    5 BW/FMFP, MINOT AFB, ND 58705                 E - 5/97     MP
4032   AFMC       1M    OC ALC, TINKER AFB, OK 73145                   E - 7/97     TE
4033   SPACECMD 1S      460 CPTF/FMFD, BUCKLEYAFB, CO 80011                         BU
4034   SPACECMD 1S      50 CPTF, SCHRIEVER AFB, CO 80912                            FD
1454                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN     CMD    CMD
 ISI     NAME    ID            SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS              STATUS     MPF ID


4036   AMC      1L    62 CPTS/FMFPM, MCCHORD AFB, WA 98438           E - 7/95     MH
4037   SPACECMD 1L    341 CPTS/FMFP, MALSTROM AFB, MT 59402          E - 5/97     MB
4038   ACC      1C    366 WG/FMFP, MT, HOME AFB, ID 83648            E - 2/96     MW
4039   AMC      1C    92 CPTS/FMFP, FAIRCHILD AFB, WA 99011          E - 12/96    FC
4040   ACC      1C    9 WG/FMFP, BEALE AFB, CA 95903                 E - 11/95    BD
4041   SPACECMD 1C    90 MW/FMFP, F.E. WARREN AFB, WY 82005          E - 2/97     FW
4042   AMC      1L    60 AW, TRAVIS AFB, CA 94535                    E - 5/96      TP
4043   ACC      1C    554 CPTS/FMFP, NELLIS AFB, NV 89191            E - 7/96      NJ
4045   AFMC     1M    AFFTC/FMFPM, EDWARDS AFB, CA 93524             E - 4/97     EB
4046   SPACECMD 1S    30 SPW/FMFP, VANDENBERG AFB, CA 93437          E - 3/96     VQ
4047   AFMC     1M    OO-ALC, HILL AFB, UT 84056                     E - 2/98     HP
4048   AFMC     1M    SMC, LOS ANGELES AFBS, CA 90009                E - 7/97     LU
4050   ACC      1C    2 CPTS/FMFP, BARKSDALE AFB, LA 71110-5000      E - 5/95     BB
4051   AETC     0J    14 CPTS/FMFP, COLUMBUS AFB, MS 39701-1101      E - 6/95     CO
4052   AFSOC    OV    347 CPTS/FMFP, MOODY AFB, GA 31699             E - 7/95     MT
4053   AETC     0J    42ND CPTS/FMFP, MAXWELL AFB, AL 36112-6335     E - 12/95    MG
4054   AFMC     1M    AEDC/FMFPM, ARNOLD AS, TN 37389                E - 11/95
4055   ACC      1C    20 FW/FMFPM, SHAW AFB, SC 29152                E - 2/96      SP
4056   AETC     0J    81 CPTS/FMFPS, KEESLER AFB, MS 39534-2555      E - 2/97     KF
4057   ACC      1C    1 CPTS/FMFP, LANGLEY AFB, VA 23665             E - 11/96    LE
4058   AFMC     1M    AFDTC/FMFPM, EGLIN AFB, FL 32403               E - 4/96     ED
4059   ACC      1C    AFI, KKEFLAVIK, APO AE 09725                                 IC
4060   ACC      1L    65 CPTF, LAJES FIELD, AE 09720                              LC
4064   JROTC          HQ AFOATS, MAXWELL AFB, AL                     E - 2/96
4065   AMC      1L    437 AW/FMFP, CHARLESTON AFB, SC 29404-5000     E - 5/95     CL
4066   AFMC     1M    ASC/FMFPM, WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB, OH 45433      E - 6/95     WE
4067   AMC      1C    23 CPTS/FMFPM, POPE AFB, NC 28308              E - 2/96     PV
4068   AMC      1L    436 CPTS, DOVER AFB, DE 19902                  E - 6/96     DM
4069   AMC      1L    305 AMW/FMFS, MCGUIRE AFB, NJ 08641            E - 11/96    MN
4070   AFMC     1M    ESC/FMFPM, HANSCOM AFB, MA 01731               E - 3/97     LK
4072   ACC      1C    4 WG/FMFP, SEYMOUR-JOHNSON AFB, NC 27531       E - 4/96     SM
4073   AFMC     1M    WR-ALC, ROBINS AFB, GA 31098                   E - 6/97     RX
4074   AFMC     1C    ROME LABORATORY, GRIFFISS AFB, NY 13441        E - 10/95    GW
4080   SPACECMD 1S    45 SW/FMFS, PATRICK AFB, FL 32925              E - 7/95      PF
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       1455


ADSN     CMD    CMD
 ISI     NAME    ID           SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS             STATUS     MPF ID


4081   AFSOC    1L    6 SOW/FMFP, HURLBURT AFB, FL 32544           E - 3/96     EE
4082   AETC     0J    325 CPTS/FMFP, TYNDALL AFB, FL 32403-5535    E - 5/96     TX
4083   AMC      1L    56 CPTS/FMFP, MACDILL AFB, FL 33608          E - 12/96    MA
4090   AMC      1L    US ARMY ASSIST. GROUP FT BRAGG
4092   JROTC          NETPMSA, PENSACOLA, FL
4093   JROTC          DFAS-KC, KANSAS CITY, KS                     E - 10/97
4095   AETC     0J    37 CPTS/FMFP, LACKLAND AFB, TX 78236-5240                ZB/LA
4096   AETC     0J    12 CPTS/FMFP, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78150-4442    E - 11/96     RJ
4097   AFMC     1M    HSC/FMF, BROOKS AFB, TX 78235                E - 12/96    BV
4100   AETC     0J    82 CPTS//FMFP, SHEPPARD AFB, TX 76311        E - 7/97     SQ
4101   AETC     0J    47 FTW/FMFP, LAUGHLIN AFB, TX 78843-5241     E - 8/97      LJ
4102   AETC     0J    17 CPTS/FMFP, GOODFELLOW AFB, TX76908-4418   E - 2/98     GF
4103   ACC      1C    96 WG, DYESS AFB, TX 79607                   E - 2/98     DW
4126   ACC      1C    355 CPTS/FMFP, DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB, AZ 85707   E - 5/97     DF
4128   AFDW     2W    HQ 11WG/FMFP-B, BOLLING AFB,                 E - 12/96   HH/AU/
                                                                               BP/WG/
                                                                                 FT
4129   ACC      1C    27 FW/FMFP, CANNON AFB, NM 88103             E - 4/97     CD
4130   ACC      1C    49 FW, HOLLOMAN AFB, NM 88330                E - 6/97     HS
4131   AETC     1C    58 CPTS, LUKE AFB, AZ 85309                  E - 6/97     LY
4132   AFMC     1M    377 ABW/FMFPM, KIRKLAND AFB,NM 87117         E - 7/97     KV
4150   PACAF    0R    15 ABW/FMF, HICKAM AFB, HI 96853             E - 7/95     HL
4152   PACAF    0R    36 ABW/FMF, ANDERSON AFB, APO AP 96543       E - 7/96     AT
4153   PACAF    0R    3 WG/FM, ELMENDORF AFB, AK 99506             E - 11/96    EL
4815   ARMY     BA    DMPO, FT MEADE, MD 20755
6688   PACAF          YOKOTA AB JAPAN                                           YM
1456                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



                                       Attachment 22B


                    AIR FORCE IN-PUT SOURCE INDICATOR (ISI) /
               ACCOUNTING AND DISBURSING STATION NUMBERS (ADSN)
                   IN COMMAND NAME BY SITE NAME SEQUENCE


ADSN    CMD     CMD
 ISI    NAME     ID            SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS             STATUS     MPF ID


 4057   ACC      1C   1 CPTS/FMFP, LANGLEY AFB, VA 23665            E - 11/96    LE
 4050   ACC      1C   2 CPTS/FMFP, BARKSDALE AFB, LA 71110-5000     E - 5/95     BB
 4055   ACC      1C   20 FW/FMFPM, SHAW AFB, SC 29152               E - 2/96      SP
 4129   ACC      1C   27 FW/FMFP, CANNON AFB, NM 88103              E - 4/97     CD
 4022   ACC      1C   28 BW/FMFP, ELLSWORTH AFB, SD 57706-5000      E - 6/95      EJ
 4025   ACC      1C   351 CPTS, WHITEMAN AFB, MO 65305              E - 12/96    WT
 4126   ACC      1C   355 CPTS/FMFP, DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB, AZ 85707    E - 5/97     DF
 4038   ACC      1C   366 WG/FMFP, MT. HOME AFB, ID 83648           E - 2/96     MW
 4072   ACC      1C   4 WG/FMFP, SEYMOUR-JOHNSON AFB, NC 27531      E - 4/96     SM
 4130   ACC      1C   49 FW, HOLLOMAN AFB, NM 88330                 E - 6/97     HS
 4031   ACC      1C   5 BW/FMFP, MINOT AFB, ND 58705                E - 5/97     MP
 4020   ACC      1C   55 WG/FMFP, OFFUTT AFB, NE 68113-5000         E - 3/95     OD
 4043   ACC      1C   554 CPTS/FMFP, NELLIS AFB, NV 89191           E - 7/96      NJ
 4060   ACC      1L   65 CPTF, LAJES FIELD, AE 09720                             LC
 4040   ACC      1C   9 WG/FMFP, BEALE AFB, CA 95903                E - 11/95    BD
 4103   ACC      1C   96 WG, DYESS AFB, TX 79607                    E – 2/98     DW
 4059   ACC      1C   AFI, KEFLAVIK, APO AE 09725                                 IC
 4096   AETC     0J   12 CPTS/FMFP, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78150-4442     E - 11/96     RJ
 4051   AETC     0J   14 CPTS/FMFP, COLUMBUS AFB, MS 39701-1101     E - 6/95     CO
 4102   AETC     0J   17 CPTS/FMFP, GOODFELLOW AFB, TX 76908-4418   E – 2/98     GF
 4023   AETC     0J   314 CPTS/FMFFS, LITTLE ROCK AFB, AR 72099     E - 7/95      LP
 4082   AETC     0J   325 CPTS/FMFP, TYNDALL AFB, FL 32403-5535     E - 5/96     TX
 4095   AETC     0J   37 CPTS/FMFP, LACKLAND AFB, TX 78236-5240                 ZB/LA
 4053   AETC     0J   42ND CPTS/FMFP, MAXWELL AFB, AL 36112-6335    E - 12/95    MG
 4101   AETC     0J   47 FTW/FMFP, LAUGHLIN AFB, TX 78843-5241      E - 8/97      LJ
 4131   AETC     1C   58 CPTS, LUKE AFB, AZ 85309                   E - 6/97     LY
 4028   AETC     0J   71 CPTS/FMFPM, VANCE AFB, OK 73705            E - 11/95    VH
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       1457


ADSN    CMD     CMD
 ISI    NAME    ID            SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS             STATUS     MPF ID


 4056   AETC    0J    81 CPTS/FMFPS, KEESLER AFB, MS 39534-2555    E - 2/97     KF
 4100   AETC    0J    82 CPTS//FMFP, SHEPPARD AFB, TX 76311        E - 7/97     SQ
 4021   AETC    0J    97 CPTS/FMFP, ALTUS AFB, OK 73523-5000       E - 4/95     AM
 4128   AFDW    2W HQ 11WG/FMFP-B, BOLLING AFB, WASH., DC 20332 E - 12/96      HH/AU/
                                                                               BP/WG/
                                                                                 FT
 4132   AFMC    1M 377 ABW/FMFPM, KIRKLAND AFB, NM 87117           E - 7/97     KV
 4054   AFMC    1M AEDC/FMFPM, ARNOLD AS, TN 37389                 E - 11/95
 4058   AFMC    1M AFDTC/FMFPM, EGLIN AFB, FL 32403                E - 4/96     ED
 4045   AFMC    1M AFFTC/FMFPM, EDWARDS AFB, CA 93524              E - 4/97     EB
 4066   AFMC    1M ASC/FMFPM, WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB, OH 45433       E – 6/95     WE
 4070   AFMC    1M ESC/FMFPM, HANSCOM AFB, MA 01731                E - 3/97     LK
 4097   AFMC    1M HSC/FMF, BROOKS AFB, TX 78235                   E - 12/96    BV
 4032   AFMC    1M OC ALC, TINKER AFB, OK 73145                    E - 7/97     TE
 4047   AFMC    1M OO-ALC, HILL AFB, UT 84056                      E – 2/98     HP
 4074   AFMC    1C    ROME LABORATORY, GRIFFISS AFB, NY 13441      E - 10/95    GW
 4048   AFMC    1M SMC, LOS ANGELES AFS, CA 90009                  E - 7/97     LU
 4073   AFMC    1M WR-ALC, ROBINS AFB, GA 31098                    E - 6/97     RX
 4052   AFSOC   0V    347 CPTS/FMFP, MOODY AFB, GA 31699           E-7/95       MT
 4081   AFSOC   1L    6 SOW/FMFP, HURLBURT AFB, FL 32544           E - 3/96     EE
 4026   AMC     1C    22 CPTS/FMFP, MCCONNELL AFB, KS 67221        E - 11/96    MK
 4067   AMC     1C    23 CPTS/FMFPM, POPE AFB, NC 28308            E - 2/96     PV
 4069   AMC     1L    305 AMW/FMFS, MCGUIRE AFB, NJ 08641          E - 11/96    MN
 4024   AMC     1C    319 CPTS/FMFP, GRAND FORKS AFB, NE 58205     E - 2/96     GM
 4027   AMC     1L    375 AW, SCOTT AFB, IL 62225                  E - 5/96      SF
 4068   AMC     1L    436 CPTS, DOVER AFB, DE 19902                E - 6/96     DM
 4065   AMC     1L    437 AW/FMFP, CHARLESTON AFB, SC 29404-5000   E - 5/95     CL
 4083   AMC     1L    56 CPTS/FMFP, MACDILL AFB, FL 33608          E - 12/96    MA
 4042   AMC     1L    60 AW, TRAVIS AFB, CA 94535                  E - 5/96      TP
 4036   AMC     1L    62 CPTS/FMFPM, MCCHORD AFB, WA 98438         E - 7/95     MH
 4012   AMC     1L    89 AW/FMFP, ANDREWS AFB, MD 20331            E -10/94     AU
 4039   AMC     1C    92 CPTS/FMFP, FAIRCHILD AFB, WA 99011        E - 12/96    FC
 4815   ARMY    BA DMPO, FT MEADE, MD 20755
 4093   JROTC         DFAS-KC, KANSAS CITY, KS                     E - 10/97
 4064   JROTC         HQ AFOATS, MAXWELL AFB, AL                   E - 2/96
1458                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN    CMD      CMD
 ISI    NAME     ID            SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS               STATUS     MPF ID


 4092   JROTC          NETPMSA, PENSACOLA, FL
 4150   PACAF    0R    15 ABW/FMF, HICKAM AFB, HI 96853               E - 7/95     HL
 4005   PACAF    0R    18 WG, KADENA AB, APO AP 96368                 E - 6/93     KB
 4153   PACAF    0R    3 WG/FM, ELMENDORF AFB, AK 99506               E - 11/96    EL
 4001   PACAF    0R    343 WG, EIELSON AFB, AK 99702                  E - 3/93     EH
 6688   PACAF    0R    YOKOTA AB, APO AP                                           YM
 4152   PACAF    0R    36 ABW/FMF, ANDERSON AFB, APO AP 96543         E - 7/96     AT
 4003   PACAF    0R    432 FW, MISAWA AB, APO AP 96319                E - 5/93     M0
 4002   PACAF    0R    51 WG, KUNSAN AB, APO AP 96278                 E - 4/93     KU
 4019   PACAF    0R    51 WG, OSAN AFB, APO AP 96278                               OP
 4029 SPACECMD   1S    21 SPW/FMFP, PETERSON AFB, CO 80914            E - 7/96      EP
 4046 SPACECMD   1S    30 SPW/FMFP, VANDENBERG AFB, CA 93437          E - 3/96     VQ
 4037 SPACECMD   1L    341 CPTS/FMFP, MALMSTROM AFB, MT 59402         E - 5/97     MB
 4080 SPACECMD   1S    45 SW/FMFS, PATRICK AFB, FL 32925              E - 7/95      PF
 4033 SPACECMD   1S    460 CPTF/FMFD, BUCKLEY AFB, CO 80011                        BU
 4034 SPACECMD   1S    50 CPTF, SCHRIEVER AFB, CO 80912                            FD
 4041 SPACECMD   1C    90 MW/FMFP, F.E. WARREN AFB, WY 82005          E - 2/97     FW
 4030   USAFA    0B    USAFA/FMFPM, USAF ACADEMY, CO 80840            E - 4/97     US
 4016   USAFE    0D    100 CPTS/FMFP, MILDENHALL, APO AE 09459-0006   E - 4/95     ML
 4017   USAFE    0D    31 CPTS/FMFPM, AVIANO, APO AE 09601-0006       E - 5/95     AY
 4018   USAFE    0D    39 CPTF/FMFP, INCIRLIK AFB, APO AE 09824       E - 7/95      IN
 4013   USAFE    0D    470 ABF/FMFP, GEILENKIRCHEN AB, APO AE 09104 E - 10/94
 4011   USAFE    0D    48 CPTS/FMFPM, LAKENHEATH AB, APO AE 09464     E - 1/95     LD
 4008   USAFE    0D    52 FW/FMFP, SPANGDAHLEM, APO AE 09126          E - 2/94      ST
 4004   USAFE    0D    7241 ABG, IZMIR AB, APO AE 09821               E - 7/92      IN
 4015   USAFE    0D    86 CPTS/FMFPM, RAMSTEIN, APO AE 09094-0006     E - 3/95     RF
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          1459



                                        Attachment 22C


                           AIR FORCE AND ARMY
              ACCOUNTING AND DISBURSING STATION NUMBERS (ADSN)
                    IN COMMAND NAME BY ADSN SEQUENCE


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME    ID                 SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS            STATUS MPF ID


4020   ACC     1C   55 WG/FMFP, OFFUTT AFB, NE 68113-5000              E - 3/95
4022   ACC     1C   28 BW/FMFP, ELLSWORTH AFB, SD 57706-5000           E - 6/95
4025   ACC     1C   351 CPTS, WHITEMAN AFB, MO 65305                   E - 12/96    WT
4031   ACC     1C   5 BW/FMFP, MINOT AFB, ND 58705                     E - 5/97     MP
4038   ACC     1C   366 WG/FMFP, MT. HOME AFB, ID 83648                E - 2/96    MW
4040   ACC     1C   9 WG/FMFP, BEALE AFB, CA 95903                     E - 11/95
4043   ACC     1C   554 CPTS/FMFP, NELLIS AFB, NV 89191                E - 7/96     NJ
4050   ACC     1C   2 CPTS/FMFP, BARKSDALE AFB, LA 71110-5000          E - 5/95     BB
4052   ACC     1C   347 CPTS/FMFP, MOODY AFB, GA 31699                 E - 7/95     MT
4055   ACC     1C   20 FW/FMFPM, SHAW AFB, SC 29152                    E - 2/96     SP
4057   ACC     1C   1 CPTS/FMFP, LANGLEY AFB, VA 23665                 E - 11/96    LE
4072   ACC     1C   4 WG/FMFP, SEYMOUR-JOHNSON AFB, NC 27531           E - 4/96     SM
4126   ACC     1C   355 CPTS/FMFP, DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB, AZ 85707         E - 5/97     DF
4129   ACC     1C   27 FW/FMFP, CANNON AFB, NM 88103                   E - 4/97     CD
4130   ACC     1C   49 FW, HOLLOMAN AFB, NM 88330                      E - 6/97     HS
6609   ACC     1C   24 CPTS, HOWARD AFB, APO AA 34001                               AF
4103   ACC     1C   96 WG, DYESS AFB, TX 79607                         E – 2/98     DW
6662   ACC     1L   65 SW, LAJES FIELD, AE 09720                                    LC
8504   ACC     1C   AFI, KEFLAVIK, APO AE 09725                                     IC
4021   AETC    0J   97 CPTS/FMFP, ALTUS AFB, OK 73523-5000             E - 4/95
4023   AETC    0J   314 CPTS/FMFFS, LITTLE ROCK AFB, AR 72099          E - 7/95     LP
4028   AETC    0J   71 CPTS/FMFPM, VANCE AFB, OK 73705                 E - 11/95    VH
4051   AETC    0J   14 CPTS/FMFP, COLUMBUS AFB, MS 39701-1101          E - 6/95
4053   AETC    0J   42ND CPTS/FMFP, MAXWELL AFB, AL 36112-6335         E - 12/95    MG
4056   AETC    0J   81 CPTS/FMFPS, KEESLER AFB, MS 39534-2555          E - 2/97     KF
4082   AETC    0J   325 CPTS/FMFP, TYNDALL AFB, FL 32403-5535          E - 5/96     TX
4095   AETC    0J   37 CPTS/FMFP, LACKLAND AFB, TX 78236-5240                      ZB/LA
4096   AETC    0J   12 CPTS/FMFP, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78150-4442          E - 11/96    RJ
4099   AETC    0J   64 FTW/FMFP, REESE AFB, TX 79489 (TO CLOSE 9/97)   E - 5/97     RM
1460                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN   CMD     CMD
 ISI   NAME    ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS               STATUS MPF ID


4100   AETC    0J    82 CPTS//FMFP, SHEPPARD AFB, TX 76311                E - 7/97     SQ
4101   AETC    0J    47 FTW/FMFP, LAUGHLIN AFB, TX 78843-5241             E - 8/97      LJ
4131   AETC    1C    58 CPTS, LUKE AFB, AZ 85309                          E - 6/97     LY
4102   AETC    0J    17 CPTS/FMFP, GOODFELLOW AFB, TX 76908-4418          E – 2/98     GF
9998   AETC          BASIC MILITARY TRAINING
4128   AFDW    2W    HQ 11WG/FMFP-B, BOLLING AFB, WASH., DC 20332         E - 12/96   HH/AU/
                                                                                      BP/WG/
                                                                                        FT
4032   AFMC    1M    OC ALC, TINKER AFB, OK 73145                         E - 7/97     TE
4045   AFMC    1M    AFFTC/FMFPM, EDWARDS AFB, CA 93524                   E - 4/97     EB
4048   AFMC    1M    SMC, LOS ANGELES AFS, CA 90009                       E - 7/97     LU
4049   AFMC    1M    SM-ALC, MCCLELLAN AFB, CA 95652                      E - 11/97    MU
4054   AFMC    1M    AEDC/FMFPM, ARNOLD AS, TN 37389                      E - 11/95
4058   AFMC    1M    AFDTC/FMFPM, EGLIN AFB, FL 32403                     E - 4/96     ED
4066   AFMC    1M    ASC/FMFPM, WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB, OH 45433            E - 6/95
4070   AFMC    1M    ESC/FMFPM, HANSCOM AFB, MA 01731                     E - 3/97     LK
4073   AFMC    1M    WR-ALC, ROBINS AFB, GA 31098                         E - 6/97     RX
4074   AFMC    1C    ROME LABORATORY, GRIFFISS AFB, NY 13441              E - 10/95    GW
4097   AFMC    1M    HSC/FMF, BROOKS AFB, TX 78235                        E - 12/96    BV
4098   AFMC    1M    SA-ALC/FMFSM, KELLY AFB, TX 78241                    E - 4/97     KH
4132   AFMC    1M    377 ABW/FMFPM, KIRKLAND AFB, NM 87117                E - 7/97     KV
4047   AFMC    1M    OO-ALC, HILL AFB, UT 84056                           E – 2/98     HP
5956   AFMC          ASC, WPAFB, OH 45433-5000
5991   AFMC    1M    2803 ABG, NEWARK, OH 43055
6673   AFMC    1M    AEDC, ARNOLD AFB, TN 37389
8800   AFPC     9    HQ AFPC, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78148
8888   AFPC     9    AFPC, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78148
6681   AFRES   0M    2400 RRMS, DOBBINS AFB, GA 30069
4081   AFSOC   1L    6 SOW/FMFP, HURLBURT AFB, FL 32544                   E - 3/96     EE
4012   AMC     1L    89 AW/FMFP, ANDREWS AFB, MD 20331                    E -10/94
4024   AMC     1C    319 CPTS/FMFP, GRAND FORKS AFB, NE 58205             E - 2/96     GM
4026   AMC     1C    22 CPTS/FMFP, MCCONNELL AFB, KS 67221                E - 11/96    MK
4027   AMC     1L    375 AW, SCOTT AFB, IL 62225                          E - 5/96      SF
4036   AMC     1L    62 CPTS/FMFPM, MCCHORD AFB, WA 98438                 E - 7/95     MH
4039   AMC     1C    92 CPTS/FMFP, FAIRCHILD AFB, WA 99011                E - 12/96    FC
4042   AMC     1L    60 AW, TRAVIS AFB, CA 94535                          E - 5/96     TP
4065   AMC     1L    437 AW/FMFP, CHARLESTON AFB, SC 29404-5000           E - 5/95     CL
4067   AMC     1C    23 CPTS/FMFPM, POPE AFB, NC 28308                    E - 2/96     PV
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                1461


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME    ID                 SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS   STATUS MPF ID


4068   AMC    1L    436 CPTS, DOVER AFB, DE 19902             E - 6/96    DM
4069   AMC    1L    305 AMW/FMFS, MCGUIRE AFB, NJ 08641       E - 11/96
4083   AMC    1L    56 CPTS/FMFP, MACDILL AFB, FL 33608       E - 12/96   MA
0082   ARMY   ZA    ADV CON TEST, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
0083   ARMY   ZA    FINANCE OFFICE, MT VERNON, VA 22121
0084   ARMY   ZA    ADMIN SPT UNIT, LAUREL, MD 20708
0085   ARMY   ZA    TRANS STA, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46216
0101   ARMY   HB    PERSCOM, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22332
0103   ARMY   None TRANS OPS ADJ, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46249
0104   ARMY   HB    PERSCOM HOFFMAN, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22332
0106   ARMY   HB    SVC SPT DIV, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46249
0108   ARMY   HB    FIB DISB DIV, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46249
0143   ARMY   HB    MARCORFINCTR, KANSAS CITY, MO 46197
0145   ARMY   None DMDC, MONTEREY, CA 93940
0154   ARMY   HB    USAFAC CEN PAY, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46249
0155   ARMY   FA    USMA, WEST POINT, NY 10996
0156   ARMY   None FITZSIMMONS AMC, AURORA, CO 80045
0166   ARMY   ZA    DFAS-CO, COLUMBUS, OH 43218
0170   ARMY   FA    USMA, WEST POINT, NY 10996
0205   ARMY   HB    PERSCOM HOFFMAN, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22332
0207   ARMY   HB    PERSCOM HOFFMAN, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22332
0220   ARMY   HB    PERSCOM HOFFMAN, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22332
0221   ARMY   HB    PERSCOM HOFFMAN, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22332
0223   ARMY   HB    PERSCOM DAPC, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22332
0230   ARMY   HB    OFFICE SURG GEN, WASH., DC 20324
0300   ARMY   MA    MILPO, FT HUACHUCA, AZ 85613
0301   ARMY   WC    MILPO, REDSTONE ARSENAL, AL 35898
0302   ARMY    IA   MILPO, FT DEVENS, MA 01433
0303   ARMY   GA    MILPO USATC, FT DIX, NJ 08640
0304   ARMY   WD MILPO, APG, MD 21005
0305   ARMY    IA   HQ MILPO, FT MEADE, MD 20755
0306   ARMY   QA    MILPO MDW, WASH., DC 20342
0307   ARMY   GA    MILPO ENGR CTR, FT BELVOIR, VA 22060
0308   ARMY   GA    MILPO TRANS CTR, FT EUSTIS, VA 23604
0309   ARMY   GA    MILPO QM CTR, FT LEE, VA 23801
0310   ARMY   WB    MILPO ARMOR CTR, FT KNOX, KY 40121
0311   ARMY   GA    MILPO, FT MONMOUTH, NY 07703
1462                                                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME   ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS                  STATUS MPF ID


0312   ARMY   VA    MILPO W REED MED CTR, WASH., DC 20307
0313   ARMY   IA    MILPO (TENANT UNITS), FT BRAGG, NC 28307
0314   ARMY   IA    MILPO 82ND ABN DIV, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
0315   ARMY   IA    MILPO XVIII ABN CORPS, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
0316   ARMY   GA    MILPO USA TNG CTR, FT JACKSON, SC 29207
0317   ARMY   GA    MILPO USA INF CTR, FT BENNING, GA 31905
0318   ARMY   IA    MILPO USAG, FT MCPHERSON, GA 30330
0319   ARMY   GA    MILPO USA SIG CTR, FT GORDON, GA 30905
0320   ARMY   GA    MILPO USA AVN CTR, FT RUCKER, AL 36362
0321   ARMY   GA    MILPO USAMP CS/TC, FT MCCLELLAN, AL 36205
0322   ARMY   IA    MILPO 101ST ABN DIV, FT CAMPBELL, KY 42223
0323   ARMY   IA    MILPO 24 INF DIV, FT STEWART, GA 31314
0325   ARMY   GA    MILPO USATC, FT LEONARD WOOD, MO 65473
0326   ARMY   IA    MILPO 1ST INF DIV, FT RILEY, KS 66442
0327   ARMY   IA    MILPO 1ST INF DIV, FT RILEY, KS 66442
0328   ARMY   GA    MILPO HQ USACAC, FT LEAVENWORTH, KS 66027
0329   ARMY   GA    MILPO USA FLD ART CTR, FT SILL, OK 73503
0330   ARMY   IA    MILPO, FT SAM HOUSTON, TX 73234
0331   ARMY   IA    MILPO, FT MCCOY, WI 54656
0332   ARMY   GA    MILPO USA AIR DEF CTR, FT BLISS, TX 79916
0333   ARMY   IA    MILPO III CORPS, FT HOOD, TX 76544
0334   ARMY   IA    MILPO 5TH INF DIV, FT POLK, LA 71459
0335   ARMY   IA    MILPO 1ST CAV DIV, FT HOOD, TX 76544
0336   ARMY   IA    MILPO 2ND ARMD DIV FT HOOD, TX 76544
0337   ARMY   IA    MILPO 13TH COSCOM FT HOOD, TX 76544
0338   ARMY   FA    SIDPER BR USMA, WEST POINT, NY 10996
0339   ARMY   IA    MILPO, PSF, CA 94129
0340   ARMY   IA    MILPO 7TH INF DIV, FT CARSON, CO 80913
0341   ARMY   IA    MILPO 4 INF DIV, FT CARSON 80913
0342   ARMY   IA    MILPO 4 INF DIV, FT CARSON 80913
0343   ARMY   IA    MILPO NTC, FT IRWIN, CA 92310
0344   ARMY   VA    MILPO FITZSIMMONS AMC, AURORA, CO 80045
0345   ARMY   IA    MILPO, FT DRUM, NY 13602
0346   ARMY   IA    MILPO FT INDIANTOWN, ANNVILLE, PA 17003
0347   ARMY   KF    MILPO 3RD ARMD DIV, APO AE 09039
0348   ARMY   KD    MILPO 510TH PSC VICENZA, APO AE 09630
0349   ARMY   KF    MILPO 8TH AG CO, AO AE 09111
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                       1463


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME   ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS              STATUS MPF ID


0350   ARMY   KF    MILPO 378TH PERS SVC CTR, APO AE 09242
0351   ARMY   KG    MILPO 1ST ARMD DIV, APO AE 09264
0352   ARMY   KE    21 TAACOM AERAG, APO AE 09263
0354   ARMY   KG    MILPO 3RD INF DIV, APO AE 09036
0356   ARMY   KF    MILPO 2ND ARMD DIV, APO AE 09272
0357   ARMY   KA    MILPO 1ST PERS CMD, APO AE 09014
0358   ARMY   KG    MILPO 38TH PERS ADM BN, APO AE 09061
0360   ARMY   MA    MILPO 5TH SIG CMD, APO AE 09056
0361   ARMY   XA    MILPO FLD STA, STUTTGART, APO AE 09154
0362   ARMY   KC    MILPO USA BERLIN, APO AE 09235
0363   ARMY   UA    MILPO 2ND DIV, APO AP 96224
0365   ARMY   UA    MILPO 8TH PERSCOM (PROV), APO AP 96205
0366   ARMY   YA    MILPO USA JAPAN, APO AP 96343
0367   ARMY   YA    MILPO USA SUP CMD, FT SHAFTER, HI 96858
0368   ARMY   IA    MILPO 6 INF, FT RICHARDSON, AK 99505
0369   ARMY   SA    MILPO USA SOUTH, APO AA 34004
0400   ARMY   OA    MDW-ANRM-AP, FT MCNAIR, WASH., DC 20319
0402   ARMY   IA    MILPO 24 INF DIV, FT STEWART, GA 31314
0493   ARMY   IA    MILPO I CORPS, FT LEWIS, WA 98433
0600   ARMY   PB    USA MAT CMD, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22333
0740   ARMY   LA    USA HSC, FT SAM HOUSTON, TX 78234
0760   ARMY   BA    US FORSCOM, FT MCPHERSON, GA 30330
0770   ARMY   RA    USA JAPAN/IX CORS, APO AP 96343
0780   ARMY   JA    175TH THEATER FIN CTR, APO AP 96205
0820   ARMY   RA    USA PACIFIC CMD, FT SHAFTER, HI 96858
0860   ARMY   DA    USARSO COMMAND, APO AA 34004
3730   ARMY   FC    HQ AAFES/CM-G/RI, DALLAS, TX 75266
4500   ARMY   BA    FT HOOD, FT HOOD, TX 76544 (Agent of Randolph AFB)
4801   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT RUCKER, AL 36362
4802   ARMY   RA    DMPO, FT SHAFTER, HI 96858
4803   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT BENNING, GA 31905
4804   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT EUSTIS, VA
4806   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT MCCLELLAN, AL 36205
4807   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT BEN HARRISON, IN 46249
4809   ARMY         DMPO, FT BELVOIR, VA
4810   ARMY         DMPO, FT SILL, OK
4811   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT MCCOY, WI 54656
1464                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME   ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS             STATUS MPF ID


4812   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT RILEY, KS 66442
4813   ARMY   EA    DMPO, FT HUACHUCA, AZ 85613
4814   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT MCPHERSON, GA 30330
4815   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT MEADE, MD 20755
4816   ARMY         DMPO, FT BUCHANAN, PR
4817   ARMY   RA    DMPO, FT RICHARDSON, AK 99505
4818   ARMY   RA    DMPO, FT WAINWRIGHT, AK 99702
4819   ARMY   RA    DMPO, FT GREELY, AK 99703
4820   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT CARSON, CO 80193
4821   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT LEAVENWORTH, KS 66027
4822   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT SAM HOUSTON, TX 78234
4823   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT DRUM, NY 13602
4824   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT BLISS, TX 79916
4825   ARMY   BA    DMPO, FT POLK, LA 71459
4826   ARMY   PC    DMPO, MICOM, REDSTONE ARSENAL, AL 35809
4827   ARMY   FA    DMPO, WEST POINT, NY 10996
4828   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT LEONARD WOOD, MO 65473
4829   ARMY   RA    DMPO, SCHOFIELD BARRACKS, HI 96857-5200
4830   ARMY   ZA    DMPO, FT LEWIS, WA 98433
4831   ARMY   BA    DMPO, 15TH FINANCE BATTALION, FT HOOD, TX 76541
4832   ARMY   BA    DMPO 215TH FINANCE BATTALION, FT HOOD, TX 76544
4833   ARMY   BA    DMPO, 230TH FINANCE BATTALION, FT HOOD, TX 76544
4834   ARMY   BA    DMPO, 13TH FINANCE GROUP, FT HOOD, TX 76544
4835   ARMY   AA    DMPO, FT JACKSON, SC 29207
4901   ARMY         USPFO FOR ALABAMA, MONTGOMERY, AL 36109-0715
4902   ARMY         USPFO FOR ALASKA, FORT RICHARDSON, AK 99505-5000
4904   ARMY         USPFO FOR ARIZONA, PHOENIX, AZ 85008-3422
4905   ARMY         USPFO FOR ARKANSAS, N. LITTLE ROCK, AR 71128-2200
4906   ARMY         USPFO FOR CALIFORNIA, SAN LUIS OBISPO, CA 93403
4908   ARMY         USPFO FOR COLORADO, ENGLEWOOD, CO 80112-6703
4909   ARMY         USPFO FOR CONNECTICUT, HARTFORD, CT 06105
4910   ARMY         USPFO FOR DELAWARE, NEW CASTLE, DE 19720-5199
4911   ARMY         USPFO FOR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
4912   ARMY         USPFO FOR FLORIDA, ST AUGUSTINE FL 32085-1008
4913   ARMY         USPFO FOR GEORGIA, ATLANTA, GA 30316-0882
4914   ARMY         USPFO FOR GUAM, TAMUNING, GU 96911-4421
4915   ARMY         USPFO FOR HAWAII
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                      1465


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME   ID                 SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS              STATUS MPF ID


4916   ARMY         USPFO FOR IDAHO, BOISE, ID 83705-6512
4917   ARMY         USPFO FOR ILLINOIS, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62702
4918   ARMY         USPFO FOR INDIANA, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46241-4839
4919   ARMY         USPFO FOR IOWA, JOHNSTON, IA 50131-1902
4920   ARMY         USPFO FOR KANSAS, TOPEKA, KS 66611-1170
4921   ARMY         USPFO FOR KENTUCKY, FRANKFORT, KY 40601-6192
4922   ARMY         USPFO FOR LOUISIANA, NEW ORLEANS, LA 70146-0330
4923   ARMY         USPFO FOR MAINE, AUGUSTA, ME 04333
4924   ARMY         USPFO FOR MARYLAND, HAVRE DE GRACE, MD 21078
4925   ARMY         USPFO FOR MASSACHUSETTS, NATICK, MA 01760
4926   ARMY         USPFO FOR MICHIGAN, LANSING, MI 48913
4927   ARMY         USPFO FOR MINNESOTA, ST PAUL, MN 55155-2098
4928   ARMY         USPFO FOR MISSISSIPPI, JACKSON, MS 39296-5027
4929   ARMY         USPFO FOR MISSOURI, JEFFERSON CITY, MO 65101
4930   ARMY         USPFO FOR MONTANA, HELENA, MT 59624-1157
4931   ARMY         USPFO FOR NEBRASKA, LINCOLN, NE 68508-1090
4932   ARMY         USPFO FOR NEVADA, CARSON CITY, NV 89701
4933   ARMY         USPFO FOR NEW HAMPSHIRE, CONCORD, NH 03302
4934   ARMY         USPFO FOR NEW JERSEY, LAWRENCEVILLE, NJ 08648
4935   ARMY         USPFO FOR NEW MEXICO, SANTA FE, NM 87505
4936   ARMY         USPFO FOR NEW YORK, LATHAM, NY 12110
4937   ARMY         USPFO FOR NORTH CAROLINA, RALEIGH, NC 27607-6412
4938   ARMY         USPFO FOR NORTH DAKOTA, BISMARCK, ND 58502-5511
4939   ARMY         USPFO FOR OHIO, COLUMBUS, OH 43235-2712
4940   ARMY         USPFO FOR OKLAHOMA, OKLAHOMA CITY, OK 73111-4398
4941   ARMY         USPFO FOR OREGON, SALEM, OR 97309-5008
4942   ARMY         USPFO FOR PENNSYLVANIA, ANNVILLE, PA 17003
4943   ARMY         USPFO FOR PUERTO RICO
4944   ARMY         USPFO FOR RHODE ISLAND, PROVIDENCE, RI 02906
4945   ARMY         USPFO FOR SOUTH CAROLINA, COLUMBIA, SC 29201-4783
4946   ARMY         USPFO FOR SOUTH DAKOTA, RAPID CITY, SD 57702-8186
4947   ARMY         USPFO FOR TENNESSEE, NASHVILLE, TN 37204-0748
4948   ARMY         USPFO FOR TEXAS, AUSTIN, TX 78763-5218
4949   ARMY         USPFO FOR UTAH, DRAPER, UT 84020-2000
4950   ARMY         USPFO FOR VERMONT, COLCHESTER, VT 05446
4951   ARMY         USPFO FOR VIRGINIA, RICHMOND, VA 23219-1832
1466                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME   ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS                STATUS MPF ID


4952   ARMY         USPFO FOR VIRGIN ISLANDS, KINGSHILL ST CROIX, VI
                    00850-9200
4953   ARMY         USPFO FOR WASHINGTON, TACOMA, WA 98430-5170
4954   ARMY         USPFO FOR WEST VIRGINIA, BUCKHANNON, WV 26201-2396
4955   ARMY         USPFO FOR WISCONSIN, MADISON, WI 53704-2572
4956   ARMY         USPFO FOR WYOMING, CHEYENNE, WY 82009
4961   ARMY         OPERATING LOCATION - SEASIDE, CA
5005   ARMY   ZA    USATAMRCOMD, WARREN, MI 48090
5014   ARMY   PD    FAO WSMR, WHITE SANDS, NM 88002
5024   ARMY   ZA    FAO SAAD, SACRAMENTO, CA 95801
5052   ARMY   ZA    TRANSUSAFAC, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46249
5058   ARMY   BA    FAO DIV, PRESIDIO SF, CA 94129
5060   ARMY   ZA    NYAC FT HAMILTON, BROOKLYN, NY 11252
5061   ARMY   EA    FAO, FT RICHIE, MD 21719
5066   ARMY   BA    FAO HQ USAGAR, ANNVILLE, PA 17003
5072   ARMY   BA    18TH ABN CORPS, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
5083   ARMY   PB    USACERCOM, FT MONMOUTH, NJ 07703
5287   ARMY   ZA    FSO DEF DEP, OGDEN, UT 84407
5410   ARMY   ZA    DPD&DLA BCFC, BATTLE CREEK, MI 49016
5480   ARMY   JA    FO 176TH FST, APO AP 96271
5488   ARMY   ZA    64TH FSC, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
5493   ARMY   CE    FO, 15TH FINANCE BATTALION, FT HOOD, TX 76544
5498   ARMY   CE    FAO ZWEIBRUCKEN, APO AE 09052
5499   ARMY   CE    FAO 127TH AREA FSC, APO AE 09708
5561   ARMY   ZA    FO 9TH INF DIV, FT LEWIS, WA 98433
5570   ARMY   HB    DIR CEN AY OPS, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46249
5577   ARMY   CA    FAO USAFACEUR AEUTCF, APO AE 09102
5583   ARMY   ZA    MCALESTERAAP, MCALESTER, OK 74501
5588   ARMY   CA    FAO USMTM, APO AE 09803
6311   ARMY   JA    FO 177TH FSU, APO AP 96224
6321   ARMY   CG    FO 106TH FSU, APO AE 09036
6325   ARMY   AA    CARL BARRACKS, CARLISLE, PA 17013
6332   ARMY   ZA    USA FIELD SPT CTR, HANOVER, MD 21076
6333   ARMY   CA    FAO 266TH TFCAEUTCF-F, APO AE 09102
6335   ARMY   None FO 10TH AREA FSC, APO AE 09630
6339   ARMY   AA    FAO USAARMC&FK, FT KNOX, KY 40121
6341   ARMY         III CORPS, FT HOOD, TX 76544
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                      1467


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME   ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS             STATUS MPF ID


6342   ARMY   DA    FAO USA SOUTH, APO AA 34004
6344   ARMY   ZA    FAO USARCPAC, ST LOUIS, MO 63132
6347   ARMY   BA    HQS USAFC, FT DOUGLAS, UT 84113
6348   ARMY   BA    FAO 24 INF DIV, FT STEWART, 31314
6350   ARMY   DA    USA FAO JAPAN, APO AP 96343
6356   ARMY   ZA    DLAFC, COLUMBUS, OH 43218
6358   ARMY         OPERATING LOCATION - HONOLULU, HI
6359   ARMY   CG    FO 78TH AREA FSC, APO AE 09033 (OPLOC - HONOLULU)
6360   ARMY   AA    USASIGCEN&FG, FT GORDON, GA 30905
6361   ARMY   AA    215TH FSU, FT BENNING, GA 31905
6362   ARMY   ZA    ON-SITE INSP AGENCY, WASH., DC 20041
6363   ARMY         230TH FINANCE BATTALION, FT HOOD, TX 76544
6366   ARMY   ZA    FAO ARRADCOM, DOVER, NJ 07801
6372   ARMY   BA    33RD FSU, FORT DRUM, NY 13602
6374   ARMY   ZA    FSO RED RIVER AD, TEXARKANA, TX 75507
6375   ARMY   PD    USARCT, NEWINGTON, VA 22122
6376   ARMY   PD    ABERDEEN PRVG GND, ABERDEEN, MD 21005
6380   ARMY   AA    FAO USAQMCENT&FL, FT LEE, VA 23801
6381   ARMY   NA    USAOFA, INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46250
6383   ARMY   BA    101 ABN DIV, FT CAMPBELL, KY 42223
6387   ARMY   CF    39TH FS, APO AE 09165
6388   ARMY         OPERATING LOCATION - NORFOLK, VA
6407   ARMY   ZA    FAO, DUGWAY, UT 84022
6410   ARMY   ZA    OPERATING LOCATION, ROCK ISLAND, IL
6411   ARMY   JA    175TH FAO, APO AP 96205-0072+D394
6416   ARMY   BA    FO 82ND ABN DIV, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
6433   ARMY   BA    NATL TNG CTR, FT IRWIN, CA 92310
6434   ARMY   ZA    FAO YUMA PG, YUMA, AZ 85364
6444   ARMY   ZA    WATERVLIET ARS, WATERVLIET, NY 12189
6447   ARMY   ZA    FAO TS&AMRC, ST LOUIS, MO 63120
6450   ARMY         215TH FINANCE BATTALION, FT HOOD, TX 76544
6451   ARMY   CF    FO 501ST AREA FSC, APO AE 09222
6458   ARMY   CG    FO 18TH AREA FSC, APO AE 09242
6460   ARMY   CA    208TH FSU, APO AE 09042
6462   ARMY   MA    FAO USAEDN, NORFOLK, VA 23510
6467   ARMY   ZA    FAO USAEDM, MOBILE, AL 36601
6473   ARMY   ZA    FAO USAEDFW, FT WORTH, TX 76102
1468                                                         AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN    CMD    CMD
 ISI    NAME   ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS               STATUS MPF ID


6483    ARMY   CF    FO 201ST FSU, APO AE 09242
6493    ARMY   ZA    FAO USAEWTRWXS, VICKSBURG, MS 39180
6499    ARMY   ZA    FAO 8TH FIN SEC, APO AE 09180
6506    ARMY   ZA    FAO TOAD, TOBYHANNA, PA 18466
6511    ARMY   ZA    FAO LEAD, CHAMBERSBURG, PA 17201
6513    ARMY   LA    FAO, FT DETRICK, MD 21701
6552    ARMY   LA    FITZSIMMONS AMC, AURORA, CO 80045
6562    ARMY   BA    18TH CFG (AIRBRN), FT BRAGG, NC 28307
6567    ARMY   AA    CL BL FO JSOC, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
6574    ARMY   PE    FAO SEAD, ROMULUS, NY 14541
6576    ARMY   ZA    FAO TOOELE DEPOT, TOOELE, UT 84074
6583    ARMY   9F    FO 8TH AREA FSC, APO AE 09034
6591    ARMY   BA    107 FS I COSCOM, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
6702    ARMY   ZA    SIERRA DEP, HERLONG, CA 96113
8449    ARMY   ZA    FO COE, TULSA, OK 74121
8508    ARMY   PD    USAMPAO, BALTIMORE, MD 21240
8520    ARMY   BA    SOTF-FSU, FT BRAGG, NC 28307
8576    ARMY   BA    8TH FINANCE BN FWD (BOSNIA) APO AE 09789
8586    ARMY         USARPSA, ALEXANDRIA, VA 22314
8599    ARMY   CA    266TH TFC, APO AE 09007
48070   ARMY   OA    USA MDW FAO, WASH., DC 20324
48090   ARMY   LA    FAO WRAMC, WASH., DC 20307
48090   ARMY         DMPO, FT MYER, MD
63210   ARMY   CG    D DETACHMENT, 106TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE 09264
63210   ARMY   CG    FST-BAMBERG 106TH FINANCE BATTALIION, APO AE 09139
63210   ARMY   CG    FST-SCHWEINFURT, 106TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63210   ARMY   CG    FST-KITZINGEN, 106TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63210   ARMY   CG    FST-ILLESHIEM, 106TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63210   ARMY   CG    FST-FRAFENWOHR, 106TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63211   ARMY   CA    B DETACHMENT 106TH FINANCE BATTALION APO AE 09114
63211   ARMY   CG    FST-VILSECK, 106TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63870   ARMY   CF    FST-KIRCHGOENS, 39TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63870   ARMY   CF    FST-BUEDINGEN, 39TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63870   ARMY   CF    FST-BABENHAUSEN, 39TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63870   ARMY   CF    FST-DARMSTADT, 39TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63870   ARMY   CF    FST-FRIEDBERG, 39TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
63870   ARMY   CF    FST-WIESBADEN, 39TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   1469


ADSN      CMD      CMD
 ISI     NAME      ID                  SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS                 STATUS MPF ID


63871    ARMY      CF    FST-FRANKFURT, 39TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
64110    ARMY      JA    175TH FAO (FST TAGEU) APO AP 96218-0168
64600    ARMY            FST-VAIHINGEN, 208TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
64600    ARMY            FST-MANNHEIM, 208TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
64600    ARMY            FST-HEIDLBERG, 208TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
64600    ARMY            FST-KARLSHRUE, 208TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
64600    ARMY            FST-AUGSBURG, 208TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE
65830    ARMY      CE    C DETACHMENT 8TH FINANCE BATTALION, APO AE 09227-3804
4064     JROTC           HQ AFOATS, MAXWELL AFB, AL                              E - 2/96
4091     JROTC           US ARMY CADET COMMAND, FT MONROE, VA                    E - 10/96
4092     JROTC           NETPMSA, PENSACOLA, FL
4093     JROTC           DFAS-KC, KANSAS CITY, KS                                E - 10/97
4001     PACAF     0R    343 WG, EIELSON AFB, AK 99702                           E - 3/93    EH
4002     PACAF     0R    51 WG, KUNSAN AB, APO AP 96278                          E - 4/93    KU
4003     PACAF     0R    432 FW, MISAWA AB, APO AP 96319                         E - 5/93    M0
4005     PACAF     0R    18 WG, KADENA AB, APO AP 96368                          E - 6/93    KB
4150     PACAF     0R    15 ABW/FMF, HICKAM AFB, HI 96853                        E - 7/95    HL
4152     PACAF     0R    36 ABW/FMF, ANDERSON AFB, APO AP 96543                  E - 7/96    AT
4153     PACAF     0R    3 WG/FM, ELMENDORF AFB, AK 99506                        E - 11/96   EL
6778     PACAF     0R    51 WG, OSAN AFB, APO AP 96278                                       OP
4029    SPACECMD   1S    21 SPW/FMFP, PETERSON AFB, CO 80914                     E - 7/96    EP
4037    SPACECMD   1L    341 CPTS/FMFP, MALMSTROM AFB, MT 59402                  E - 5/97    MB
4041    SPACECMD   1C    90 MW/FMFP, F.E. WARREN AFB, WY 82005                   E - 2/97    FW
4046    SPACECMD   1S    30 SPW/FMFP, VANDENBERG AFB, CA 93437                   E - 3/96    VQ
4080    SPACECMD   1S    45 SW/FMFS, PATRICK AFB, FL 32925                       E - 7/95    PF
4030     USAFA     0B    USAFA/FMFPM, USAF ACADEMY, CO 80840                     E - 4/97    US
8890     USAFA     0B    USAF ACADEMY, USAF ACADEMY, CO 80840
4004     USAFE     0D    7241 ABG, IZMIR AB, APO AE 09821                        E - 7/92    IN
4008     USAFE     0D    52 FW/FMFP, SPANGDAHLEM, APO AE 09126                   E - 2/94
4011     USAFE     0D    48 CPTS/FMFPM, LAKENHEATH AB, APO AE 09464              E - 1/95
4013     USAFE     0D    470 ABF/FMFP, GEILENKIRCHEN AB, APO AE 09104            E - 10/94
4015     USAFE     0D    86 CPTS/FMFPM, RAMSTEIN, APO AE 09094-0006              E - 3/95
4016     USAFE     0D    100 CPTS/FMFP, MILDENHALL, APO AE 09459-0006            E - 4/95
4017     USAFE     0D    31 CPTS/FMFPM, AVIANO, APO AE 09601-0006                E - 5/95
4018     USAFE     0D    39 CPTF/FMFP, INCIRLIK AFB, APO AE 09824                E - 7/95    IN
8630     USMTM     0E    JPPSO-SAT/ECAF, SAN ANTONIO, TX 78286
8721                     OPLOC – ORLANDO
1470                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN   CMD    CMD
 ISI   NAME   ID                 SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS              STATUS MPF ID


8723                OPLOC – LAWTON
8724                OPLOC – ROME
8726                OPLOC - ST LOUIS
8727                OPLOC - SAN ANTONIO
8748                DHAHRAN, SAUDIA ARABIA APO AE 09808
  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                   1471



                                         Attachment 22D


                                   AIR FORCE
                ACCOUNTING AND DISBURSING STATION NUMBERS (ADSN)
                               IN ADSN SEQUENCE


ADSN   CMD      CMD
 ISI   NAME     ID               SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS        STATUS      MPF ID


4001   PACAF    0R 343 WG, EIELSON AFB, AK 99702                  E - 3/93     EH
4002   PACAF    0R 51 WG, KUNSAN AB, APO AP 96278                 E - 4/93     KU
4003   PACAF    0R 432 FW, MISAWA AB, APO AP 96319                E - 5/93     M0
4004   USAFE    0D 7241 ABG, IZMIR AB, APO AE 09821               E - 7/92      IN
4005   PACAF    0R 18 WG, KADENA AB, APO AP 96368                 E - 6/93     KB
4008   USAFE    0D 52 FW/FMFP, SPANGDAHLEM, APO AE 09126          E - 2/94
4011   USAFE    0D 48 CPTS/FMFPM, LAKENHEATH AB, APO AE 09464     E - 1/95
4012   AMC      1L    89 AW/FMFP, ANDREWS AFB, MD 20331           E -10/94
4013   USAFE    0D 470 ABF/FMFP, GEILENKIRCHEN AB, APO AE 09104   E - 10/94
4015   USAFE    0D 86 CPTS/FMFPM, RAMSTEIN, APO AE 09094-0006     E - 3/95
4016   USAFE    0D 100 CPTS/FMFP, MILDENHALL, APO AE 09459-0006   E - 4/95
4017   USAFE    0D 31 CPTS/FMFPM, AVIANO, APO AE 09601-0006       E - 5/95
4018   USAFE    0D 39 CPTF/FMFP, INCIRLIK AFB, APO AE 09824       E - 7/95      IN
4020   ACC      1C 55 WG/FMFP, OFFUTT AFB, NE 68113-5000          E - 3/95
4021   AETC     0J    97 CPTS/FMFP, ALTUS AFB, OK 73523-5000      E - 4/95
4022   ACC      1C 28 BW/FMFP, ELLSWORTH AFB, SD 57706-5000       E - 6/95
4023   AETC     0J    314 CPTS/FMFFS, LITTLE ROCK AFB, AR 72099   E - 7/95      LP
4024   AMC      1C 319 CPTS/FMFP, GRAND FORKS AFB, NE 58205       E - 2/96     GM
4025   ACC      1C 351 CPTS, WHITEMAN AFB, MO 65305               E - 12/96    WT
4026   AMC      1C 22 CPTS/FMFP, MCCONNELL AFB, KS 67221          E - 11/96    MK
4027   AMC      1L    375 AW, SCOTT AFB, IL 62225                 E - 5/96      SF
4028   AETC     0J    71 CPTS/FMFPM, VANCE AFB, OK 73705          E - 11/95    VH
4029 SPACECMD   1S    21 SPW/FMFP, PETERSON AFB, CO 80914         E - 7/96      EP
4030   USAFA    0B USAFA/FMFPM, USAF ACADEMY, CO 80840            E - 4/97     US
4031   ACC      1C 5 BW/FMFP, MINOT AFB, ND 58705                 E - 5/97     MP
4032   AFMC     1M OC ALC, TINKER AFB, OK 73145                   E - 7/97     TE
4036   AMC      1L    62 CPTS/FMFPM, MCCHORD AFB, WA 98438        E - 7/95     MH
  1472                                                       AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN     CMD     CMD
 ISI     NAME    ID               SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS              STATUS      MPF ID


4037 SPACECMD    1L    341 CPTS/FMFP, MALMSTROM AFB, MT 59402            E - 5/97     MB
4038     ACC     1C 366 WG/FMFP, MT. HOME AFB, ID 83648                  E - 2/96     MW
4039     AMC     1C 92 CPTS/FMFP, FAIRCHILD AFB, WA 99011                E - 12/96    FC
4040     ACC     1C 9 WG/FMFP, BEALE AFB, CA 95903                       E - 11/95
4041 SPACECMD 1C 90 MW/FMFP, F.E. WARREN AFB, WY 82005                   E - 2/97     FW
4042     AMC     1L    60 AW, TRAVIS AFB, CA 94535                       E - 5/96      TP
4043     ACC     1C 554 CPTS/FMFP, NELLIS AFB, NV 89191                  E - 7/96      NJ
4045     AFMC    1M AFFTC/FMFPM, EDWARDS AFB, CA 93524                   E - 4/97     EB
4046 SPACECMD    1S    30 SPW/FMFP, VANDENBERG AFB, CA 93437             E - 3/96     VQ
4047     AFMC    1M OO-ALC, HILL AFB, UT 84056                           E – 2/98     HP
4048     AFMC    1M SMC, LOS ANGELES AFS, CA 90009                       E - 7/97     LU
4049     AFMC    1M SM-ALC, MCCLELLAN AFB, CA 95652                      E - 11/97    MU
4050     ACC     1C 2 CPTS/FMFP, BARKSDALE AFB, LA 71110-5000            E - 5/95     BB
4051     AETC    0J    14 CPTS/FMFP, COLUMBUS AFB, MS 39701-1101         E - 6/95
4052     ACC     1C 347 CPTS/FMFP, MOODY AFB, GA 31699                   E - 7/95     MT
4053     AETC    0J    42ND CPTS/FMFP, MAXWELL AFB, AL 36112-6335        E - 12/95    MG
4054     AFMC    1M AEDC/FMFPM, ARNOLD AS, TN 37389                      E - 11/95
4055     ACC     1C 20 FW/FMFPM, SHAW AFB, SC 29152                      E - 2/96      SP
4056     AETC    0J    81 CPTS/FMFPS, KEESLER AFB, MS 39534-2555         E - 2/97     KF
4057     ACC     1C 1 CPTS/FMFP, LANGLEY AFB, VA 23665                   E - 11/96    LE
4058     AFMC    1M AFDTC/FMFPM, EGLIN AFB, FL 32403                     E - 4/96     ED
4064     JROTC         HQ AFOATS, MAXWELL AFB, AL                        E - 2/96
4065     AMC     1L    437 AW/FMFP, CHARLESTON AFB, SC 29404-5000        E - 5/95     CL
4066     AFMC    1M ASC/FMFPM, WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB, OH 45433            E - 6/95
4067     AMC     1C 23 CPTS/FMFPM, POPE AFB, NC 28308                    E - 2/96     PV
4068     AMC     1L    436 CPTS, DOVER AFB, DE 19902                     E - 6/96     DM
4069     AMC     1L    305 AMW/FMFS, MCGUIRE AFB, NJ 08641               E - 11/96
4070     AFMC    1M ESC/FMFPM, HANSCOM AFB, MA 01731                     E - 3/97     LK
4072     ACC     1C 4 WG/FMFP, SEYMOUR-JOHNSON AFB, NC 27531             E - 4/96     SM
4073     AFMC    1M WR-ALC, ROBINS AFB, GA 31098                         E - 6/97     RX
4074     AFMC    1C ROME LABORATORY, GRIFFISS AFB, NY 13441              E - 10/95    GW
4080 SPACECMD    1S    45 SW/FMFS, PATRICK AFB, FL 32925                 E - 7/95      PF
4081     AFSOC   1L    6 SOW/FMFP, HURLBURT AFB, FL 32544                E - 3/96     EE
4082     AETC    0J    325 CPTS/FMFP, TYNDALL AFB, FL 32403-5535         E - 5/96     TX
4083     AMC     1L    56 CPTS/FMFP, MACDILL AFB, FL 33608               E - 12/96    MA
  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                          1473


ADSN   CMD     CMD
 ISI   NAME    ID               SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS               STATUS       MPF ID


4091   JROTC         US ARMY CADET COMMAND, FT MONROE, VA               E - 10/96
4092   JROTC         NETPMSA, PENSACOLA, FL
4093   JROTC         DFAS-KC, KANSAS CITY, KS                           E - 10/97
4095   AETC    0J    37 CPTS/FMFP, LACKLAND AFB, TX 78236-5240                       ZB/LA
4096   AETC    0J    12 CPTS/FMFP, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78150-4442          E - 11/96      RJ
4097   AFMC    1M HSC/FMF, BROOKS AFB, TX 78235                         E - 12/96      BV
4098   AFMC    1M SA-ALC/FMFSM, KELLY AFB, TX 78241                     E - 4/97       KH
4099   AETC    0J    64 FTW/FMFP, REESE AFB, TX 79489 (TO CLOSE 9/97)   E - 5/97       RM
4100   AETC    0J    82 CPTS//FMFP, SHEPPARD AFB, TX 76311              E - 7/97       SQ
4101   AETC    0J    47 FTW/FMFP, LAUGHLIN AFB, TX 78843-5241           E - 8/97       LJ
4102   AETC    0J    17 CPTS/FMFP, GOODFELLOW AFB, TX 76908-4418        E – 2/98       GF
4103    ACC    1C 96 WG, DYESS AFB, TX 79607                            E – 2/98      DW
4126    ACC    1C 355 CPTS/FMFP, DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB, AZ 85707            E - 5/97       DF
4128   AFDW    2W HQ 11WG/FMFP-B, BOLLING AFB, WASH., DC 20332          E - 12/96   HH/AU/BP/
                                                                                     WG/FT
4129    ACC    1C 27 FW/FMFP, CANNON AFB, NM 88103                      E - 4/97       CD
4130    ACC    1C 49 FW, HOLLOMAN AFB, NM 88330                         E - 6/97       HS
4131   AETC    1C 58 CPTS, LUKE AFB, AZ 85309                           E - 6/97       LY
4132   AFMC    1M 377 ABW/FMFPM, KIRKLAND AFB, NM 87117                 E - 7/97       KV
4150   PACAF   0R 15 ABW/FMF, HICKAM AFB, HI 96853                      E - 7/95       HL
4152   PACAF   0R 36 ABW/FMF, ANDERSON AFB, APO AP 96543                E - 7/96       AT
4153   PACAF   0R 3 WG/FM, ELMENDORF AFB, AK 99506                      E - 11/96      EL
5956   AFMC          ASC, WPAFB, OH 45433-5000
5991   AFMC    1M 2803 ABG, NEWARK, OH 43055
6609    ACC    1C 24 CPTS, HOWARD AFB, APO AA 34001                                    AF
6662    ACC    1L    65 SW, LAJES FIELD, AE 09720                                      LC
6673   AFMC    1M AEDC, ARNOLD AFB, TN 37389
6681   AFRES   0M 2400 RRMS, DOBBINS AFB, GA 30069
6778   PACAF   0R 51 WG, OSAN AFB, APO AP 96278                                        OP
8504    ACC    1C AFI, KEFLAVIK, APO AE 09725                                          IC
8630   USMTM   0E    JPPSO-SAT/ECAF, SAN ANTONIO, TX 78286
8721                 OPLOC – ORLANDO
8723                 OPLOC – LAWTON
8724                 OPLOC – ROME
8726                 OPLOC - ST LOUIS
  1474                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


ADSN     CMD     CMD
 ISI     NAME    ID              SITE NAME/PARTIAL ADDRESS           STATUS   MPF ID


8727                   OPLOC - SAN ANTONIO
8748                   DHAHRAN, SAUDIA ARABIA APO AE 09808
8800     AFPC     9    HQ AFPC, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78148
8888     AFPC     9    AFPC, RANDOLPH AFB, TX 78148
8890     USAFA   0B USAF ACADEMY, USAF ACADEMY, CO 80840
9998     AETC          BASIC MILITARY TRAINING
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1475


                                          Attachment 23

                                  MANAGEMENT NOTICES
AUTODIN and JDC Management Notices to Bases. The following is a list of management notices
AUTODINed to base-level MPF or sent via JDC by DFAS-DE for action.


     MGT               WHAT GENERATES                                ACTION REQUIRED
  NOTICE


UA           VIP input-medical/dental pay not            FSO should contact HQ AFPC/SGCP to
             established.                                input the appropriate transaction.
UB04         Issued if closest dependent code is G when  Verify amount of child support; member
             mass rate is run each year; also issued whenmay lose BAQ entitlement if support
             an MD04, MD05 or MD06 is processed.         amount is less than BAQ-DIFF (DoDFMR,
                                                         Vol 7A).
UB05         Issued when BAQ-DIFF is stopped because Member must re-establish entitlement to
             support amount has become less than         BAQ-DIFF; must furnish proof of support
             BAQ-DIFF; usually caused by mass rate or amount.
             a promotion.
UC           A UC management notice is sent to the FSO FSO should update BAQ. Housing
             when a housing entitlement transaction is transaction will recycle 9 days and then
             received and there is no BAQ established on reject if BAQ is not updated.
             the MMPA, or the BAQ and housing
             transaction are not compatible. (See para
             44-27B.)
UD           Debt stop/Cancel processed by AAFES.        FSO should notify member.
             NOTE: Applies to Army, Navy, and Air
             Force. The NEXCOM, NEXCARD, USC
             and AFFES will be interchangeable based
             on which organization the debt belongs to.
UE           Generated when a basic allowance for           MPF corrects own records.
             quarters (BAQ) transaction processes and
             changes or establishes the BAQ
             Dependency code (CLOSEST-BAQ-DEPN)
             on the MMPA.
UG           When a member is assigned inadequate           Verify and adjust rental fair value
             quarters, BAQ and DH changes and their         percentage for both member and spouse.
             CLOST-BAQ-DEPN equals I or W, a UG             (DODFMR, Volume 7A)
             management notice is issued to the FSO.
1476                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     MGT             WHAT GENERATES                                 ACTION REQUIRED
  NOTICE


UH         A UH management notice is sent to the FSO      Upon receipt of the notice, the FSO verifies
           within 7 days after processing a PCS arrival   the PCS days to the travel documents and
           transaction if the period between PCS          the MMPA for correction. Thirty days are
           departure and arrival be accounted for from    allowed for actions necessary to account for
           MMPA entries. Days accountable are:            the PCS days; otherwise a reject is given.
            DATE-ARR-STATION minus
            DDLDS equals DATE-TVL-
            TIME-ENTITLEMENT plus
            TDY-DAYS plus PROCD-
            DAYS GRANTED plus LV-
            DAYS COUNT plus DAYS-
             OTHER STATUS (SJ, SK and SP).
UI         ASD/OSD entry closed; fly pay stopped end      FSO should input 1205 if required.
           of previous processing month. 1205 action
           may be required to correct stop date.
UJ         Generated from quarterly bump between          Military Pay should submit or resubmit a
           DFAS-DE address file and the MMPA for          6B04 address change transaction into the
           members who have an MMPA but no                base-level update. This generates an SC04
           address on the address file.                   address change transaction to DFAS-DE to
                                                          update DFAS-DE's address file.
UK         AAFES debt Start/Changed, Mbr No Pay           FSO should review MMPA to ensure 2/3 of
           Due.                                           pay has not been exceeded. If so, process a
                                                          DS04 to change amount.
           NOTE: Applies to Army, Navy, and Air
           Force. The NEXCOM, NEXCARD, USC
           and AFFES will be interchangeable based
           on which organization the debt belongs to.
UL         Processing of a terminal leave for a member Verify that travel time excluded from
           separating.                                 terminal leave.
UM         Member has reached 22-year point; ACIP FSO should input 1202 or 1206, as required.
           may require termination. If so submit 1202
           or 1206.
           NOTE: UM Management Notice is for
           Army use only.
UN         When a DG debt for a report of survey if       FSO notifies the reports of survey monitor
           fully collected.                               to annotate the register.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1477


     MGT               WHAT GENERATES                                 ACTION REQUIRED
 NOTICE


UO           When a member separates with an        FSO notifies the reports of survey monitor
             uncollected balance for a report of survey.
                                                    to annotate register about the uncollected
                                                    amount.
UP        When a DG debt is started for a report of FSO notifies the reports of survey monitor
          survey.                                   to annotate the register.
NOTE: Management notices UN, UO, and UP do not apply to Navy.
UQ        AWACS date generated by FSO in 1201       AFPC submits TN05 to confirm date.
          transaction.
UQ        AWACS date in 1201 not equal to date in   AFPC submits TN05 to confirm date.
          TN entry.
UR        AAFES debt started                        FSO should notify member. Also, review
                                                    MMPA to ensure 2/3 rule has not been
          NOTE: Applies to Army, Navy, and Air
          Force. The NEXCOM, NEXCARD, USC exceeded.
             and AFFES will be interchangeable based
             on which organization the debt belongs to.
US           Debt change/correct by Army and Air Force       FSO should notify member.
             Exchange Service (AAFES).
UT03         Issued when a 65XX is processed and the         Reverify entitlement to FSA.
             BAQ code is D, G, I, K, L, R, S, or T.
UU           Basic allowance for subsistence (BAS) type      Verify BAS type K. Notify member.
             K stopped per DODFMR, Volume 7A.
UV           HOUSING-PROCESSED                               Check entitlements to FSA type 1.
UX           Base-level inputs PC for casual payment         See DFAS-DEM 7073-1, chapter 77.
             made to a Navy member; DFAS-DE sends
             to Navy Finance Center. If the transaction is
             rejected by the Navy as an invalid SSN, it is
             returned to DFAS-DE as a UX03
             management notice. DFAS-DE in turn sends
             the UX03 to the FSO. The transaction
             appears on the DTR, Section 3.
             NOTE: Applies to Army and Air Force
             only.
1478                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     MGT             WHAT GENERATES                                 ACTION REQUIRED
  NOTICE


UY         Notice that debts with type codes equal to 2,   FSO should notify agency that no collection
           5, B, E (Air Force only), F, H, L, M, N, V      actions will be taken due to separation.
           (Air Force only), and V (Army only where
           the company code is a prefix D) were not
           established due to separation. Exception:
           Indebt-type V with co-codes D000709 (Air
           Force) and D001749, D388245, D389193 or
           D389292 (Army) should remain opened
           through the DOS and then close.
U103       TSP 0000000 EXCEEDS AVAIL NET PAY            The TSP office (3819) opens a CMS case,
           BY 0000000                                   refers it to the base FSO. FSO contacts
                                                        member requesting a new percentage
                                                        election be established in myPay and closes
                                                        the case.
U203       Issued when a 3504 is processed changing FSO must verify all housing entitlements
           BAQ code to G.                               such as BAQ, VHA, etc.
U4         Generated on the 90th day of appellate       Contact JA and members unit to ensure that
           review leave.                                member's status is unchanged and that AF
                                                        Form 988, Leave Request/Authorization, is
                                                        received to process SB02 and SB51 to
                                                        update MMPA. If member is to be
                                                        separated, be sure that MPF processes E5. If
                                                        member is to be reinstated, send message to
                                                        DFAS-DE/FJSS.
U8         Generated one month after member is          Servicing FSO should contact the member
           reassessed to active duty after being in "T" and request the member complete a TD
           status more than one month.                  Form W-4. Member's SITW has been
                                                        suspended since the month after member
                                                        entered "T" status, so taxes are under
                                                        withheld for income earned year-to-date.
XA         On receipt of a PCS arrival transaction,     The gaining MPF receives the XA
           DFAS-DE issues an XA management notice management notice for member's PCS
           to notify the MPF of the member's PCS        arrival. The notice is for information only.
           arrival.
XB         Verification of quarters assignment is       The FSO must compare this notice with a
           determined if the member is assigned family list received from Housing to determine if
           housings at the end of April and October of member is actually living in government
           each year.                                   quarters. (See para 42.9.)
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1479


     MGT             WHAT GENERATES                                 ACTION REQUIRED
 NOTICE


XC05       Generated when an Initial Clothing              This management notice is sent to the
           Allowance FID 64 processed for type 3.          member’s servicing FSO for verification of
                                                           entitlement.


XC11       Generated when an initial clothing              This management notice is sent to the
           allowance FID 64 processed for type 4.          member’s servicing FSO for verification of
                                                           entitlement.
XD         Notifies the FSO that the computer              FSO can change the repay rate.
           automatically restarted a suspended debt
           because member has pay now available.
           NOTE: Applies to Army, Navy, and Air
           Force.
XE         Redetermination of secondary dependency         FSO notifies the member that a DD Form
           (parent, step, adopted, handicapped or          137, Application for Basic Allowance for
           illegitimate child) is selected by the last     Quarters for Members with Dependents,
           digit of the member’s SSN during the            must be prepared and submitted to
           entitlement recertification process.            DFAS-DE/Y. (See paragraph 42-10.)
           NOTE: Applies to Army only.
XG03       Issued 30 days prior to youngest child’s 21st BAQ will stop day prior to birth date. If
           birthday.                                     date of birth is incorrect, submit 3504.
XG04       Issued 90 days prior to youngest child’s 21st BAQ-DIFF will stop; verify birth date with
           birthday in 36 entry.                         member and submit 3604 if DOB is
                                                         incorrect.
XG05       Issued 30 days prior to youngest child’s 21st BAQ-DIFF will stop day prior to birth date.
           birthday in 36 entry.                         Submit 3604 if DOB is incorrect.
XG06       Issued 90 days prior to youngest child’s 21st BAQ will stop; verify birth date with
           birthday.                                     member and submit 3504 if DOB is
                                                         incorrect.
XG07       Issued 90 days prior to youngest student’s BAQ will stop; verify birth date with
           23rd birthday.                                member and submit 3504 if DOB is
                                                         incorrect.
XG08       Issued 30 days prior to youngest student’s BAQ-DIFF will stop day prior to birth date;
           23rd birthday.                                submit 3604 if DOB is incorrect.
XH         MG/MH has processed.                          Check record for possible FDP adjustment.
1480                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     MGT             WHAT GENERATES                                  ACTION REQUIRED
  NOTICE


XI         An XI management notice is generated by         The XI management notice is for
           DFAS-DE after a PCS departure transaction       information only, with no action required.
           has been processed. It is generated to notify   There are four separate notices:
           the losing and gaining accounting and            1. XI03 is generated and sent to the ADSN
           disbursing station numbers (ADSN) of the        as a notice of a member’s projected arrival.
           projected date departed last duty station
           (DDLDS) and arrival dates.                        2. XI05. The XI05 is generated if the
                                                           gaining ADSN was changed from the
                                                           original departure transaction. An XI05 is
                                                           sent to the old gaining ADSN and an XI03
                                                           to the new gaining ADSN.
                                                             3. XI06. The XI06 is generated and sent
                                                           to the losing ADSN 7 days before the
                                                           projected DDLDS. This notifies the FSO
                                                           that the PCS transaction will process.
                                                             4. X150 is generated and sent to the losing
                                                           ADSN if the member's status is such that it
                                                           will cause the PCS departure transaction to
                                                           reject if not cleared before the projected
                                                           DDLDS.


XJ         Notice to restart allotments and debts that     XJ02 requires no action by servicing ADSN.
           were stopped by separation/AWOL                 XJ03 requires the servicing ADSN to
           transaction. Generated to servicing ADSN        contact the member and restarts allotments
           when transaction to cancel projected            and debts that were stopped by the
           separation is processed or a member is          separation transaction.
           reported AWOL.
XK03       Notice of expired ETS.                          Requires action by both the FSO and MPF.
                                                           Normally the MPF's must input either an E5,
                                                           if member separated, or an E6, if member
                                                           extended or reenlisted. FSO's must either
                                                           ensure continuation of pay or suppress
                                                           member depending on circumstances.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      1481


    MGT                 WHAT GENERATES                              ACTION REQUIRED
  NOTICE


XK04          Notice of recycling or unposted PQ         The XK04 notice is generated to the FSO or
              payment. An XK04 notice is generated on    MPF unless the transaction rejected to
              the 25th and 42nd day after receipt of PQ03DFAS-DE. The PQ03 transaction will also
              payment trans-action if a separation,      reject MIR at this point. Proper clearing of
              reenlistment, or extension transaction has XK04 notice requires an FSO and MPF
              not processed and updated the MMPA.        combined effort. MPF action is to ensure
                                                         reenlistment and separation transaction was
                                                         input and that the rejected transactions are
                                                         corrected and reinput. FSO determines
                                                         validity of payment. Payment format may
                                                         be erroneous or payment was received after
                                                         a non-monetary reenlistment or extension
                                                         transaction has updated the MMPA.
XK05      Notice of a suspended (Q18 or Q8) DV           A C203 to collect back security deposit as
          entry on the MMPA with advance pay type necessary and/or a DT04 to adjust repay rate
          S. It is generated to the FSO at DV start date or start date.
          minus 2 months. Also generated when a
          PCS, BAQ, OHA, or VHA transaction
          (excluding mass rates) is processed.
XK06      Generated when a DT04 transaction is           Accelerate collection to ensure it is
          processed for a DV entry advance type S        collected within 12 months or month prior
          with the following condition: the new          to DOS.
          money amount will not allow full collection
          within 12 months or by the month prior to
          DOS.
XK07      Notice of an open DV entry on the MMPA Same action as XK05.
          with an advance pay type of B or G. It is
          generated to the FSO when a PCS, BAQ,
          OHA, or VHA transaction (excluding mass
          rates) is processed.
XK08      Notice of an open DV entry on the MMPA Same action as XK05.
          with an advance pay type of B or G and a
          suspended (Q18 or Q8) DV entry on the
          MMPA with advance pay type of S. It is
          Generated to the FSO when a PCS, BAQ,
          OHA, or VHA transaction (excluding mass
          rates) is processed.
NOTE: Management notices XK05, 06, 07, and 08 will apply to Army, Navy, and Air Force.
1482                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     MGT              WHAT GENERATES                                   ACTION REQUIRED
  NOTICE


XL         An XL03 management notice is sent to the FSO must verify entitlements affected by
           FSO, whenever an MD05 is processed.        the correction of grade/effective date of
                                                      grade.
XM         Generated when LD04 is submitted by        Advises that the temporary duty (TDY)
           gaining TDY ADSN which changes TDY ADSN has been established.
           ADSN in MMPA.
XO         ETS minus 120 days.                        MPF validates date of separation (DOS),
                                                      estimated term of service (ETS), number
                                                      (NR) of extensions.
XS         DOS minus 10 days or advance notice of     Advise member of projected indebtedness.
           separation indebtedness. (See Chapter 52.)
XT         XT03 is generated by the B2 input          No action is required by the FSO or MPF. It
           preparation subsystem for every            is furnished for information only. The intent
           transmission received an FSO or MPF.       of the management notice is to assure the
           Program from C191NPRP creates the          FSO or MPF that we received and placed
           management notice to inform the FSO or     their transmission into the DJMS update
           MPF that a particular transmission was     indicated in the management notice.
           received. It describes the processing date
           and DJMS update in addition to the
           transmission number.
           NOTE: Applies to Army and Air Force
           only.
XU         An XU03 management notice is required to          Action is required by the MPF to verify that
           inform the FSO or MPF when a particular           they did or did not submit the missing
           transmission has already been received            transmission. If they had, they must
           (duplicate) or is missing. It is generated by     retransmit. If for some reason they had not
           the B2 input preparation subsystem.               sent the transmission number in question
           Program C191NPRP creates this                     and not intend to do so, they must submit an
           management notice after receipt of notice         XU50 transaction to clear the missing
           after receipt of one valid transmission after a   transmission numbers.
           missing transmission. It is created to alert
           the FSO or MPF that we did not receive a
           particular transmission based on
           transmission number logged previously.
           NOTE: Applies to Army and Air Force
           only.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1483


     MGT             WHAT GENERATES                                ACTION REQUIRED
 NOTICE


XW         An XW management notice is generated          The XW management notice is sent to MPF
           when a PCS transaction is received for a      to notify them that a separation reentry, or
           member going from officer training school,    demotion input is required. If member's
           and the member has not been promoted to       normal grade is higher and member is
           01 or demoted to E4 or below. The PCS         eliminated from officer training school, the
           transaction also recycles RAP (to allow       FSO notifies DFAS-DE by message to
           pending separation to process).               manually process the PCS transaction.
XY         Has the following three distinct purposes:
             1. Notifies the finance office that an   FSO can change the scheduled repay rate.
           entitlement or status change was received
           causing member's pay to go below zero, and
           DQ or DW debt was established for the
           negative amount.
             2. Notifies the finance office that an
           entitlement(s) change with a prior month
           effective date was processed that resulted in FSO must review the DQ debt to determine
           a net, negative adjustment to the             which of the following action should be
           entitlement(s), and a DQ debt was             taken:
           established for the negative amount.             1. Immediately collect the debt because it
             3. Notifies the finance office when the     is a routine adjustment.
           member's net pay is increased by at least        2. Notify the member to determine if a
           $100, and there are debts currently being     remission or waiver action is desired. If so,
           collected. Does not apply to advance pay the FSO must change the suspension reason
           repayments.                                   to preclude DJMS from automatically
                                                         collecting the debt on the first calendar day
                                                         of the second processing month following
                                                         the processing month in which the DQ debt
                                                         was established.
                                                   FSO can change repayment schedule.
XZ         Generated to the field each time a DJMS These notices are used by base-level FSOs
           transaction rejects to the operating    to identify the actual reject code for
           directorate for their action.           corresponding ZBD error codes on the DTR.
                                                   These notices are provided as information
                                                   only but are widely used to research pay
                                                   inquiries.
X103       BAQ updated, overseas housing allowance Update OHA.
           (OHA) present.
X104       BAQ updated, HOUSING updated.           Verify entitlement, correct inconsistencies
                                                   between BAQ and HOUSING, if necessary.
1484                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


     MGT              WHAT GENERATES                                   ACTION REQUIRED
  NOTICE


X4         Generated when an excess cost household           Traffic management office (TMO) follows
           goods (HHG) Form 139 is delinquent in             up to determine the rebuttal status. If more
           action to input a debt collection start.          time is needed, TMO notifies DFAS-DE.
X7         Generated when LD02 is processed by TDY           SVC ADSN submits transaction to start
           ADSN. It is generated to advise SVC               entitlements that stopped as a result of TDY.
           ADSN that TDY has stopped.
X803       Generated when member (grade E4, 4 years    The X8 management notice is sent to the
           or less service) enters an excess leave status.
                                                       servicing ADSN to determine entitlement to
                                                       BAQ during period of excess leave.
X9         PCS arrival transaction stops BAQ for       The X9 management notice is sent to the
           members E4 over 4 years and above without servicing ADSN. Upon receipt, the
           dependents and generates an X9              servicing ADSN reviews the member's PCS
           management notice. The notice is generated status and decides if BAQ should be
           so a review will be made of the made of the adjusted for the period of PCS. If
           member's BAQ status while PCS.              adjustment is necessary, the servicing
                                                       ADSN will adjust; otherwise, no action is
                                                       required.
X905       PCS proc-verify and correct 23, FL and/or Reverify and correct IDP, CZTE, HFP, and
           BS entries.                                 HFP CZ leave balance
X906       PCS proc-verify BS arr/dep HFP              Notify DFAS-DE/FJ if BS arr/dep HFP
           dates-notify DFAS for ADJ                   dates or HFP leave carryover balance need
                                                       corrected.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1485


                                          Attachment 24

                     AFPC MATCH FLAG CODE (AFPC-MATCH-CODE)

A24.1. The AFPC-MATCH-CODE is used in computer processing to control accession or separation
confirmations between DFAS-DE and AFPC.

A24.2. The AFPC-MATCH-CODEs are as follows:


         Code     Explanation


       1, A, or S Member is fully accessed. AFPC confirmation of accessions has not been
                  received.


        6 or F    Member partially accessed by EA transaction. E2 transaction must be
                  submitted by the MPF at member's first permanent duty base. PCS
                  transactions will not process against an account with this match flag.


           Z      Member partially accessed as a basic trainee or OTS by an E101 transaction.
                  Only transactions from Lackland or Maxwell will process against this account.


           7      Same as Z except AFPC confirmation has been received.


        2 or B    Separation transaction received from MPF has not been confirmed by AFPC.


          C       E6 transaction is recycling under extended separation processing rules.

           3      E3, E4, E5, E6 (or PQ triggering E5) transaction has been recycled by the
                  computer.


       J, K, or X Officer service dates have not been confirmed by a TZ transaction from AFPC.


       I, T, or U Grade change has not been confirmed by AFPC.
1486                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            Attachment 25

               CHECKLIST FOR AWOL, CONFINEMENT, COURT-MARTIAL,
                     AND APPELLATE REVIEW LEAVE STATUS

A25.1. Payment Control for Local and Central Payees (AWOL/CONFINEMENT STATUS)
   A25.1.1. If status is a type that suspends member's entitlement to pay and allowances, process a pay
   suppression or contact DFAS-DE/FJF and request MM/EOM pay be suppressed.
   A25.1.2. Process LH02 if applicable.
   A25.1.3. Annotate suppression log if pay will be suppressed.
   A25.1.4. Brief member on dependent support requirements when drawing with dependent BAQ
   (Confinement only).
   A25.1.5. Adjust or stop partial and single rate BAQ as applicable.
   A25.1.6. Stop VHA for member drawing with-dependent and single rate BAQ.
   A25.1.7. Record convening authority date for member who is being court-martialed.
   A25.1.8. Record the update that the fine/forfeiture processed.
   A25.1.9. Record the update that the reduction in grade (from _____ to _____ ) processed.
   A25.1.10. Request minimum and maximum release dates.
   A25.1.11. Record the date that FSO received court-martial order.
   A25.1.12. Name and extension of POC in member's orderly room.
        Name _________Extension ______________

A25.2. Appellate Review Leave Status
   A25.2.1. The initial appellate review leave form. AF Form 988 was received in the FSO
   ________________.
       A25.2.1.1. Provide the processing date ___________________.
   A25.2.2. Stop BAQ for members without dependents in an excess leave status. See DODFMR, Vol-
   ume 7A, chapters 25 through 31, paragraph 260501C for members with dependents in excess leave
   status.
   A25.2.3. Check the MMPA BL entry to verify leave sell days.
   A25.2.4. Verify DR entries and all other debts before calculating accrued leave settlement.

A25.3. Review of Courts Martial Orders
   A25.3.1. Compare the date of reduction-in-grade shown on the court-martial order against the MD04
   on MMPA.
   A25.3.2. Verify that fine/forfeiture action is on the MMPA (and has not collected past the first day of
   appellate review leave).
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1487


   A25.3.3. Stop all allotments effective the month that the convening authority of the court-martial
   ordered the sentence executed when a total forfeiture is ordered.

A25.4. Weekly Records Review
   A25.4.1. Review the member's pay record as to status, payments, leave, time not accounted for, and
   note any discrepancies on a weekly basis.

A25.5. Helpful Hints
   A25.5.1. Do not wait for the MPF to process the SJ transaction. Adjust all the affected entitlements
   and stop central pay upon receipt of the AF Form 2098 from the squadron.
   A25.5.2. If the member has been transferred from another base or confinement facility, contact the
   prior FSO to verify payments and the adjustments made to entitlements.
   A25.5.3. Ensure the servicing MPF has input the correct grade reduction. Verify this date with the
   court martial order.
   A25.5.4. Courts Martial orders must be sent to the FSO with an AF Form 1373, Military Pay
   Order-Document Transmittal.
   A25.5.5. The minimum release date is important to the FSO because an AF Form 2098 will be pre-
   pared on that date by MPF and sent to the FSO.
   A25.5.6. The maximum release date is the date that the court-martial confinement sentence has been
   completed.
   A25.5.7. The manual references for Partial and Single rate BAQ adjustments are DODFMR, Volume
   7A, chapters 25 through 31, paragraph 260204 and table 26-3, rule 26, respectively.
   A25.5.8. BAQ is not payable to a member without dependents for any period of excess leave
   (non-pay status). Reference DODFMR, Volume 7A, part 3, table 26-3, rule 10. For members with
   dependents on excess leave, see DoDFMR, Volume 7A, paragraph 260501C.
   A25.5.9. If a partial forfeiture is ordered, allotments may continue through the month prior to the
   appellate review leave start date. Do not start new allotments for members in confinement.
   A25.5.10. When computing pay due the member, subtract all existing allotments, FITW, FICA,
   SITW, AFRH, SGLI, MGIB and debts that are known to the FSO. Look for SRB, RRB, and ESB (R6
   and R7) MMPA entries.
      A25.5.10.1. VHA is not payable to a member in confinement.
      A25.5.10.2. BAS is not payable to an enlisted member in confinement, but is payable to officers
      in confinement.
      A25.5.10.3. Family Separation Allowance may be payable. Reference DoDFMR, Volume 7A,
      chapter 27, table 27-3.
      A25.5.10.4. Clothing Maintenance Allowance is not payable.
      A25.5.10.5. Calculate the unearned portion of the RRB/SRB/ESB bonuses using the following
      examples:
1488                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



Old DOS (TU Entry)                                                  961004
Subtract Date Bonus Entitlement Stops                              -940716
Unearned Days of the Bonus                                           2-2-18
                                                               or 798 days

Total Number Days of Reenlistment                                  940716
Subtract DOE (TG Entry)                                           -921004
Earned Days of the Bonus                                            1-9-12
                                                               or 643 days

Total Number of Days of Reenlistment                                 1440

Subtract Total Days Paid (R3, 6, 7 Entry)                            1140

Number Days of Unobligated Service                                     300

Balance Term of Enlistment
Add Unearned Number of Days                                       2-02-18
Add Earned Number of Days                                         1-09-12
Reenlistment Period                                               3-11-30
                                                                or 4 years

Number of Earned Days                                                  643
Subtract Unobligated Service Days                                     -300
Total Days Earned                                                      343

Total Bonus Entitlement                                         $1,206.98
Divided by Total Bonus Days Paid                                     1140
Daily Rate of the Bonus                                         $1.05875

Multiply Daily Rate                                              $1.05875
Times Number of Earned Days                                           343
Amount of Earned Bonus                                            $363.15

Amount of Bonus Paid to Date                                      $804.65
Less Earned Bonus Amount                                          -363.15
Amount of Bonus to be Recouped                                    $441.50

   A25.5.11. Keep complete and accurate records. This is the only way to track what is happening to a
   member's pay record/status and other functional area's timeliness of document submission.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1489


                                             Attachment 26

                              SCHEDULE OF VERIFICATIONS,
                         RECERTIFICATIONS AND RECONCILIATIONS


                                                                                              7073-1
  ENTITLEMENT/SUBJECT                    TYPE                       FREQUENCY                  REF


Basic Allowance
for Subsistence (BAS)
Commander Verification        Verification                              Annual                 25-3


Dependency Discrepancies      Reconciliation                        Semi-Annually             26-12



Basic Allowance for
Housing (BAH)                 Quarters                               Annual - as of
    Without Dep Rate BAH      Verification                        the end of October           26-11


    With Dep Rate BAH or      Family Quarters                        Annual - as of
    BAH-DIFF                  Verification                         the end of October         26-10


    Partial Rate BAH          Entitlement                            Annual - as of
                              Verification                         the end of October          26-11
    With Dep Rate BAH         Secondary Dependent
                              Redetermination                           Annual                Ch 26-8
                                                                                              and 32


ACIP & HDIP                   Entitlement
                              Verification                             Quarterly               22-5




BAH                           Recertification                PCS Arrival or every 4 years &
                                                                     60 days before
                                                                Separation or Retirement       32-5
Open/Suspended Questionable   Review/reconciliation            Semi-Annual, September         69-19
Indebtedness List                                                     and March
1490                                                      AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                                             7073-1
  ENTITLEMENT/SUBJECT                       TYPE          FREQUENCY           REF



Uncleared NQ/PX Listing          Reconciliation           Twice Monthly      76-10


PRA                              Review                    Semi-Annual         1-2
                                                         May and November


Certifying Officials Roster      Review                      Monthly           1-7


Voucher Balancing -              Reconciliation            Daily/Monthly    76-7, 8, 9
 JUMPS/MAFR


ETS Listing                      Review/Reconciliation       Monthly          6-2D


Parachute Duty Pay               Verification                Quaterly         23-2


Flight Deck Duty Pay             Verification                 Annual          23-4



Demolition Pay                   Verification                 Annual          23-6



Experimental Stress Duty Pay     Verification                 Annual          23-8



Toxic Fuels or Propellants Duty; Verification                 Annual         23-10
Toxic Pesticides Duty;
Dangerous Viruses;
Bacteria Lab Duty; or
Chemical Munitions Duty Pay
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                           1491


                                                               7073-1
  ENTITLEMENT/SUBJECT            TYPE     FREQUENCY            REF


State Taxing Authority


   UDN Reject Notice Resulting                Monthly          56-16C
    from Accession Transaction
    Processing


    FA0141S Report from SAR                Semi-Annually       56-16C
                                        (April and November)
1492                                                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                                                 Attachment 27

              EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS REPORTS SYSTEM (EARS) USER MANUAL


Chapter 1 General Information


Section 1.0        General............................................................................................................ ...........5
       1.1.     Purpose of User Manual..................................................................................... ...........5
       1.2.     Security............................................................................................................... ...........5
Section 2.0        System Summary ........................................................................................... ...........5
       2.1.     System Features.................................................................................................. ...........6
       2.2.     System Functions................................................................................................ ...........6
Section 3.0        On-Line Processing......................................................................................... ...........6
       3.1.     General................................................................................................................ ...........6
       3.2.     Signon Procedures.............................................................................................. ...........6
       3.3.     Selecting the Processing Month.......................................................................... ...........7
       3.4.     Signoff Procedures.............................................................................................. ...........8
       3.5.     Other Procedures................................................................................................. ...........8


Chapter 2 Downloading DJMS Update Results


Section 1.0        General............................................................................................................ ...........9
Section 2.0        Downloading Update Results......................................................................... ...........9
Section 3.0        Convert Update Results.................................................................................. ...........11
       3.1.     Get DJMS Update............................................................................................... ...........11
       3.2.     Convert DJMS Update........................................................................................ ...........12
       3.3.     Conversion Errors............................................................................................... ...........13
Section 4.0        Transfer to Additional PCs............................................................................. ...........13
       4.1.     Copy Updates to Disk......................................................................................... ...........13
       4.2.     Restore Updates from Disk................................................................................. ...........14
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                           1493



Chapter 3 Customer Inquires


Section 1.0      General............................................................................................................ ...........17
Section 2.0      Transaction History File.................................................................................. ...........17
Section 3.0      General Search................................................................................................ ...........20
    3.1.      Transaction History File..................................................................................... ...........21
    3.2.      Unit Leave Log.................................................................................................. ...........22
    3.3.      Processed DJMS Update Transactions.............................................................. ...........22
Section 4.0      Statistical Reports........................................................................................... ...........23
    4.1.      Select Processing Month.................................................................................... ...........24
    4.2.      Transaction by Cycle......................................................................................... ...........24
    4.3.      Cycle Summary.................................................................................................. ...........25
    4.4.      Unit Input Summary.......................................................................................... ...........26
    4.5.      Rejects by FID................................................................................................... ...........27
    4.6.      Rejects by FID/Error.......................................................................................... ...........28
    4.7.      Training Report.................................................................................................. ...........28
    4.8.      Input Timeliness Report..................................................................................... ...........29
    4.8.1. Summary of Format ID...................................................................................... ...........29
    4.8.2. Summary by Source Code & Format ID........................................................... ...........30
    4.8.3. Summary by Format ID & Action Indicator...................................................... ...........30
    4.8.4. Summary by Source Code-Format ID & Indicator ........................................... ...........31
    4.8.5. Summary by Input Source................................................................................. ...........32
    4.8.6. Unit Commander’s Report................................................................................. ...........33
    4.8.7. Detail Report - Late Transactions...................................................................... ...........33
    4.8.8. How Timeliness Rates are Computed ............................................................... ...........34


Chapter 4 DJMS Reports


Section 1.0      General3.......................................................................................................... ...........5
    1.1.      Report Maintenance............................................................................................ ...........35
    1.2.      Report Distribution to External Units................................................................. ...........35
    1.3.      Report Distribution to Internal Units.................................................................. ...........36
1494                                                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       1.4.      Management Notices/Rejects and Recycles....................................................... ...........36
Section 2.0          Selecting a Report........................................................................................... ...........36
       2.1.      One-Time Payments............................................................................................ ...........37
       2.2.      Management Notices.......................................................................................... ...........38
       2.3.      By-Others Transactions....................................................................................... ...........39
       2.4.      Rejected Transactions......................................................................................... ...........40
       2.5.      Recycled Transactions........................................................................................ ...........41
       2.6.      Daily Register of Transactions (DROT)............................................................. ...........42
       2.7.      Document Transmittal Listing (DTL)................................................................. ...........43
       2.8.      Unit Leave Report............................................................................................... ...........44
       2.9.      Voucher Balancing.............................................................................................. ...........44


Chapter 5 File Utilities


Section 1.0          General............................................................................................................ ...........47
Section 2.0          File Utilities Menu.......................................................................................... ...........47
       2.1.       List DJMS Updates Converted to EARS System.............................................. ...........47
       2.2.       Setup EARS Program and Printers.................................................................... ...........47
       2.2.1.     Set Paper Type, ADSN and Printer Type........................................................... ...........48
       2.2.2. Setup Drivers and Directories............................................................................ ...........48
       2.2.3. Set Laser and DOT Matrix Printer Codes.......................................................... ...........49
       2.3.       Assign Passwords and Access Levels................................................................ ...........49
       2.3.1. Add New Record............................................................................................... ...........50
       2.3.2. Edit a Record..................................................................................................... ...........50
       2.3.3. Delete Record.................................................................................................... ...........51
       2.3.4. Recall Record..................................................................................................... ...........51
       2.4.       Start New Month................................................................................................ ...........51
       2.5.       Fix File Conversion Errors and Reindex Files................................................... ...........52
       2.6.       Source Code Maintenance................................................................................. ...........53
       2.6.1. Assign Source Code and Team IDs................................................................... ...........54
       2.6.2. Print Source Codes............................................................................................. ...........54
       2.6.3.     Backup Source Code File to Floppy Disk......................................................... ...........55
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                           1495


    2.6.4. Restore Source Code File from Disk................................................................. ...........55
    2.7.       Update Reject Codes and Corrective Action..................................................... ...........55
    2.8.       Backup & Restore Transaction History File...................................................... ...........56
    2.8.1. Backup Transaction History File....................................................................... ...........56
    2.8.2. Restore Transaction History File from Disk...................................................... ...........57


Chapter 6 Pay Utilities


Section 1.0      General............................................................................................................ ...........59
Section 2.0      Travel Per Diem System................................................................................. ...........59
Section 3.0      AC LES System.............................................................................................. ...........59
    3.1.        LES Inquiry....................................................................................................... ...........60
    3.2.        Expired ETS Report.......................................................................................... ...........61
    3.3.        Unit Commanders Report................................................................................. ...........62
    3.4.        Searches - Overseas.......................................................................................... ...........63
    3.5.        Searches - Basic................................................................................................ ...........63
    3.6.        Searches - Miscellaneous.................................................................................. ...........63
    3.7.        Leave Balance Report....................................................................................... ...........64
    3.8.        Print LES by Organization................................................................................ ...........65
    3.9.        Entitlement Summary....................................................................................... ...........66
    3.10.       End of Month Payroll....................................................................................... ...........67
    3.11.       End of Month NPD........................................................................................... ...........68
    3.12.       AC LES Maintenance....................................................................................... ...........68
    3.12.1. Select LES Month............................................................................................. ...........69
    3.12.2. Get LES Data File............................................................................................. ...........69
    3.12.3. Convert LES File.............................................................................................. ...........70
    3.12.4. File Maintenance............................................................................................... ...........70
    3.12.5. Delete LES Records.......................................................................................... ...........70
    3.12.6. Backup LES File............................................................................................... ...........71
    3.12.7. Restore LES Files............................................................................................. ...........71
    3.12.8. Setup LES Files................................................................................................ ...........72
    3.12.9. Update LES Remarks........................................................................................ ...........72
1496                                                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       3.12.10. Entitlement Bumps........................................................................................... ...........73
Section 4.0          RC LES System.............................................................................................. ...........74
Section 5.0          AC Net Pay Advice (NPA) System................................................................. ...........74
       51        NPA Inquiries Menu........................................................................................... ...........74
       5.2.       NPA Inquiry....................................................................................................... ...........74
       5.3.       Print NPA by Unit.............................................................................................. ...........75
       5.4.       Mid-Month Payroll............................................................................................ ...........75
       5.5.       Update NPA Remarks........................................................................................ ...........76
       5.6.       NPA Maintenance.............................................................................................. ...........77
       5.6.1. Get NPA Data File............................................................................................. ...........77
       5.6.2. Convert NPA Data File...................................................................................... ...........77
       5.6.3. File Maintenance................................................................................................ ...........78
       5.6.4.     Delete NPA Records.......................................................................................... ...........78
       5.6.5. Setup NPA Files................................................................................................. ...........78
Section 6.0          Unit Commander’s Financial Report (UCFR)................................................ ...........79
       6.1.       UCFR Menu....................................................................................................... ...........79
       6.1.1. UCFR Inquiry.................................................................................................... ...........79
       6.1.2. Expired ETS Report........................................................................................... ...........80
       6.1.3. VIP Report......................................................................................................... ...........81
       6.1.4. Leave Balance Report........................................................................................ ...........82
       6.1.5. Open Debt Report.............................................................................................. ...........82
       6.1.6. Non-Duty Status................................................................................................. ...........83
       6.1.7. No Pay Due Report............................................................................................ ...........84
       6.1.8. BAS and BAQ Reports...................................................................................... ...........85
       6.1.8.1. BAQ Payments................................................................................................. ...........85
       6.1.8.2. BAQ or Gov’t QTRS and NO BAS.................................................................. ...........86
       6.1.8.3. W/DEP or W/O BAQ and No VHA................................................................. ...........86
    6.1.8.4. E-6 and Below with BAQ Rebate and BAS..................................................... ...........87
    6.1.8.5. E-6 and Below with BAQ Diff and BAS.......................................................... ...........87
       6.1.8.6. E-7 and Above and No BAS............................................................................. ...........88
       6.1.8.7. BAS Payments.................................................................................................. ...........88
       6.1.8.8. VHA Payments................................................................................................. ...........89
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                                                     1497


    6.1.9. EFT Statistics..................................................................................................... ...........89
    6.1.10. Print UCFR by PACIDN................................................................................... ...........90
    6.2.      UCFR Maintenance............................................................................................ ...........90
    6.2.1.     Get UCFR Data File.......................................................................................... ...........90
    6.2.2. Convert UCFR Data File................................................................................... ...........91
    6.2.3. File Maintenance................................................................................................ ...........91
    6.2.4.     Delete UCFR Records....................................................................................... ...........92
Section 7.0       Off Line Reports............................................................................................. ...........92
Section 8.0       DFAS Input System........................................................................................ ...........93
1498                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            Attachment 27B


                             CHAPTER 1 GENERAL INFORMATION


SECTION 1.0 GENERAL


1.1. PURPOSE OF USER’S MANUAL


        The Evaluation and Analysis Reports System (EARS) is a personal computer application designed
to simplify Defense Joint Military Pay System (DJMS) reports, provide timeliness and accuracy percent-
age statistics and enhance research capabilities. EARS replaces several other personal computer applica-
tions such as the Daily Register of Transactions (DROT), the Reject Analysis Processing System (RAPS),
and the Late Payment Reporting System (LAPARS).


        EARS maintains a 12 month transaction history file of all processed, recycled and rejected trans-
actions, management notices, by-others transactions and one time pay authorizations. This history file
provides an alternative means for the servicing pay office to meet DFAS requirements pertaining to report
distribution, file maintenance and correcting rejects and recycled transactions.


        EARS has the capability to support units in a battlefield environment and provides management
with flexibility to schedule and assign work based on priorities, workload and the ever-changing environ-
ment.


        The objective of this user’s manual is to provide the user with the information necessary to effec-
tively use the system. This manual is designed to provide the user with a tool to “walk through” the Eval-
uation and Analysis Report System from the logon screen to the Main Menu and all associated
sub-menus.


1.2. SECURITY


       Security of EARS is ensured through a two-level security system:


        A. Lowest Level: All personnel require a password to access EARS. Passwords may be assigned
by unit/activity, individual, team or section.


         B. Highest Level: Personnel must be authorized access to the following sensitive areas that con-
trol the EARS programs:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1499



       (1) EARS Conversion Routine
       (2) File Utility Menu
       (3) Statistical Reports


SECTION 2.0 SYSTEM SUMMARY


        EARS is an interactive, menu driven personal computer application that provides the servicing
pay office and/or input source with transaction history, reformatted DFAS reports and various statistical
reports. EARS also has the capability to support units in a battlefield environment with or without DJMS
connectivity.


2.1. SYSTEM FEATURES


        The 12 month transaction history file provides the capability to print or view on screen DJMS
reports for the current month plus the prior 11 months. Research is simplified and instantaneous with
transactions for each processing month displayed in SSAN sequence regardless of the DJMS update.
EARS allows for input source reports to be printed per update or several updates may be combined for
easier distribution. The EARS Transaction History File, Leave and Earnings Statements, Net Pay Advice
and the Unit Commander’s Finance Report can be downloaded to laptop computers to aid in answering
pay inquires at remote locations or field units.


2.2. SYSTEM FUNCTIONS


       EARS consists of four primary subsystems that are briefly described below:


         A. CUSTOMER INQUIRIES MENU. This function allows the user to display all transactions
by update and/or processing month or individual SSAN. This function also allows the user to request sta-
tistical data by source code, format ID, and/or error code.


        B. DJMS REPORTS MENU. This function allows the user to view on screen or print all DJMS
reports by update(s) or processing month.


        C. FILE MAINTENANCE MENU. This function allows the user to download DJMS updates,
convert the updates to the EARS program format, select processing month, backup or restore data files
and set the drive and subdirectory where files are located.
1500                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        D. PAY UTILITIES MENU. This function allows the user to view or print Leave and Earnings
Statements (LES) and Net Pay Advices (NPA) for current or prior months, generate Expired ETS Reports
and the Unit Commander’s Finance Report (UCFR). This function also provides for various reports to be
printed from the LES data base.


SECTION 3.0 ON-LINE PROCESSING


3.1. GENERAL


        The purpose of this section of the user manual is to describe procedures to sign-on and signoff of
the system. Chapters 3 through 6 will describe in detail how screens are used to select functions from the
four menus.
3.2. SIGNON PROCEDURES


       The user must first sign on to the database. This is accomplished as follows:


       A. From the DOS prompt, key in CD\RMSAFO and press the “Enter” key.


       B. From the EARS program prompt C:\RMSAFO>, key in RMSAFO and press the “ENTER”
key. The following sign-on screen appears showing copyright information and the version number and
date. NOTE: The version number identifies the current update to the EARS program.


                               Evaluation and Analysis Reports System


                               Copywrite (c) 1993 - Thomas K. Johnson


                           License: Defense Finance & Accounting Service


                                         Version: _._ Date: __


                                      Enter Password:_________


       C. Enter the password (IN UPPER CASE LETTERS) assigned to you by the EARS system
administrator and press the “Enter” key. The EARS Main Menu will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               1501


     Following is a screen image of the Main Menu.


                       Evaluation And Analysis Reports System (EARS)


           FILE MAINTENANCE                              CUSTOMER INQUIRES
   A = GET DJMS UPDATE                           N = TRANSACTION HISTORY FILE
   B = CONVERT DJMS UPDATE                       O = GENERAL SEARCH
   C = SELECT PROCESSING MONTH                   P = STATISTICAL REPORTS
   D = FILE UTILITIES


                DJMS REPORTS                                   PAY UTILITIES


   E = ONE-TIME PAYMENTS                         Q = TRAVEL PER DIEM SYSTEM
   F = MANAGEMENT NOTICES                        R = AC LES SYSTEM
   G = BY-OTHERS TRANSACTIONS                    S = RC LES SYSTEM
   H = REJECTED TRANSACTIONS                     T = AC NPA SYSTEM
   I = RECYCLE TRANSACTIONS                      U = UNIT CMDR FIN REPORT
   J = DROT                                      V = OFF-LINE REPORTS
   K = DOCUMENT TRANSMITTAL                      W = DFAS INPUT SYSTEM
   L = UNIT LEAVE REPORT                         Z = EXIT TO DOS
   M = VOUCHER BALANCING                         PROCESSING MONTH: ________


     D. The user can now select the processing option(s) authorized by their password.
1502                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


3.3. SELECTING THE PROCESSING MONTH


        EARS operates on a processing month basis. The processing month is indicated in the lower
right corner of the Main Menu. When requesting options from the menu, only information reflected for
the processing month indicated on the menu will be provided.


        To select the processing month, select option “C” from the Main Menu and the following screen
will appear.


       Month: November               Select Processing Month


          A = January                                 G = July
          B = February                                H = August
          C = March                                   I = September
          D = April                                   J = October
          E = May                                     K = November
          F = June                                    L = December
                                                      M = History


       To select a processing month, press the letter corresponding to the month or use the “up or down
arrow” keys to highlight the option then press the “Enter” key. After selecting the processing month, the
user will be returned to the Main Menu.


3.4. SIGNOFF PROCEDURES


        To exit the EARS program, select option “Z” (Exit To Dos) from the Main Menu by pressing the
letter “Z” on the key board. If EARS is running in a Windows environment, highlight option “Z” using
the “up or down arrow” keys, then press the “Enter” key. You will be returned to the DOS prompt
screen.


3.5. OTHER PROCEDURES


        On most Menu selections, EARS returns the user to the Main Menu after an option has been per-
formed to allow for additional options to be processed. However; some screens require the use of a func-
tion key to return to the Main Menu. Follow the on screen options, where indicated, and EARS will return
to the Main Menu.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1503


                                             Attachment 27C


                      CHAPTER 2 DOWNLOADING DJMS UPDATE RESULTS


SECTION 1.0 GENERAL


        Prior to using EARS, the daily DJMS Update Results must be downloaded from the DJMS main-
frame computer. With a few exceptions, EARS uses the same procedures for downloading DJMS results
currently used to print DJMS reports and run the DROT program.


        The following procedures are used for download to both a stand alone personal computer or to an
internal office Local Area Network System (LAN). Exceptions for download to a LAN are noted where
required.


SECTION 2.0 DOWNLOADING UPDATE RESULTS


          The user must first sign onto the DJMS data base. This is accomplished as follows:


          A. At the initial sign on screen, key in “JSS” and press the “Enter” key.


          B. The following screen will appear.


                 CESN - CICS/VS SIGNON - ENTER USERID AND PASSWORD


                        USER ID ⇒
                     PASSWORD ⇒
                  NEW PASSWORD ⇒


      C. The user should key in correct and current information as required. The user has now accessed
the AMHDAL system.


          D. A blank screen will appear. Key in “JUPD” and press “Enter”. The following screen will
appear:
1504                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                          CHANGE OUTPUT DESTINATION ADSN




                                         ADSN: ________




        ENTER ADSN FOR WHICH YOU WISH TO RECEIVE OUTPUT PRODUCTS




                     CLEAR OR ALT 6 TO EXIT OR CANCEL REQUEST


       E. Enter the ADSN for which update(s) are requested and press “Enter”.
        F. The below screen image of the Request Update Results menu appears. DO NOT enter any
data at this time.


                                 REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS


                                           ADSN: 1111


                 UPDATE ________PROCESS DATE _______ IS AVAILABLE


ENTER REQUEST:


                     1 CURRENT UPDATE (ALL REPORTS & CYCLES)
                     2 CURRENT UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS & CYCLES)
                     3 PREVIOUS UPDATE (ALL REPORTS & CYCLES)
                     4 PREVIOUS UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS & CYCLES)
                     5 VIEW UPDATE INFORMATION
                     6 CHANGE OUTPUT PRINTERS DESTINATION(S)
                     X EXIT


       G. Press “CTRL-P” and the Printer Control Panel will be displayed.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1505


                                      Control Panel For Printer


      READY               INSESSION CHECK            STATUS         SCS MODE PAGE SIZE
                                                                             LINES COL
      HOLD PRINT          8 LPI
                          DBL                        DUAL           REPRINT 66 25
                          SPACE                      CASE
      COMPRESSED ENHANCED DBL                        OVERRIDE IGNORE              DISABLE
      PRINT      PRINT    WIDTH                      HOST     LOCAL               DOS PRINT
                          PRINT                      FORMAT   COPY

          OUT PUT: C:\ FILE.DAT         DATE


          H. Press “F1” to highlight “HOLD PRINT” (top left corner).


          I. Press “ALT-T”.


          J. At the prompt “ENTER OUTPUT PRINT FILE NAME” key in:


          For A Stand Alone PC      C:\DTAFO\DTR0801.DAT (ENTER)
          For A LAN System         U:\DTAFO\DTR0801.DAT (ENTER)


                (1) C:\DTAFO\ or U:\DTAFO\ is the hard drive and subdirectory where the files will be
copied.


                  (2) DTR0801.DAT is the file name and extension of the update file. The file name con-
sists of the file type (DTR = Daily Transaction Register), the update number (08.01), and the file exten-
sion (DAT). Using the current processing month update number as part of the file name aids in
identifying update results that have been downloaded.
                (3) Filename and Subdirectories: The DJMS file can be downloaded to any subdirectory,
using any file name and extension. Select option “D” from the EARS Main Menu and option “C” from
the Utility Menu to set up file names and subdirectories.


          K. Answer "N" (NO) to the next two prompts:


          Append to Existing File (Y/N)?     Enter "N" and press “Enter”
1506                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       Print while Writing to File (Y/N)? Enter "N" and press “Enter”


       L. Answer "Y" (YES) to the last 3 prompts:


       LOCAL COPIES (Y/N)                     Enter "Y" and press “Enter”
       BRACKETS          (Y/N)             Enter “Y” and press “Enter”
       BINDS        (Y/N)              Enter “Y” and press “Enter”
       M. Press "F1” to highlight "READY".


       NOTE: The middle of the screen is highlighted and displays the file name with a zero (0) byte file
size. This file size increases as the file is received and copied to the computer’s hard drive.


       N. Press "CTRL-O" to return to the "Request Update Results" menu.


                                   REQUEST UPDATE RESULTS


                                              ADSN: 1111


                  UPDATE ________PROCESS DATE _______ IS AVAILABLE


ENTER REQUEST:


                      1 CURRENT UPDATE (ALL REPORTS & CYCLES)
                      2 CURRENT UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS & CYCLES)
                      3 PREVIOUS UPDATE (ALL REPORTS & CYCLES)
                      4 PREVIOUS UPDATE (SELECTED REPORTS & CYCLES)
                      5 VIEW UPDATE INFORMATION
                      6 CHANGE OUTPUT PRINTERS DESTINATION(S)
                      X EXIT


       O. From the "Request Update Results" menu, select options “1” or “3” to download DJMS
update results. NOTE: When downloading reports (JUPD), select report options “1” or “3” (all reports
and cycles) and download the entire DJMS report. EARS will not convert reports downloaded using any
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1507


other option. Once the download starts, it will continue to completion (the hard disk light stops blinking).
During this period, the PC cannot be used for anything else.


SECTION 3-0 CONVERT UPDATE RESULTS


        Following the successful download, the data must be converted to the EARS program. If running
a LAN system, all users must be signed off prior to converting the download. During the conversion
process, the Transaction History File is locked and DJMS production or statistical reports cannot be
printed.


3.1. GET DJMS UPDATE


        Verify you are in the correct processing month (bottom right corner of the Main Menu). If needed,
select option "C" from the Main Menu to change the processing month.


       Select option “A” (Get DJMS Update) from the Main Menu and the following screen will appear:


           Please enter the exact location of the DJMS Update .


           Examples:          Floppy Disk A - Enter: A:
                         Floppy Disk B – Enter: B:
                 Drive C: & Subdirectory AFO - Enter: C:\AFO\
                Drive C: & Subdirectory MILPAY - Enter: C:\MILPAY|


           Location of the DJMS Update File: C:\DTAFO\


       Enter the exact location (drive and subdirectory) of the Update file, to include the colon (:) and
back slash (\).


       Enter the requested information and the following screen displaying all files currently in the direc-
tory will appear.
1508                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            File Maintenance


                                         A = Get DJMS Update
Directory
IN961101.DAT
IN961102.DAT
IN961103.DAT
                                               Instructions


               Up Arrow = Up 1 Item                   Down Arrow = Down 1 File
               CTRL-Home = Go 1st File                CTRL-End = Go Last File
               Pg Up = Go Previous Page               Pg Dn = Go Next Page
               ESC = Abort                            Enter = Select File


     Follow the instructions to select and highlight the appropriate update, then press the “Enter” key.
EARS will return to the Main Menu.


3.2. CONVERT DJMS UPDATE


         This routine converts the DJMS update to the EARS program. EARS maintains a 12 month his-
tory file of all DJMS transactions. To start a new processing month (converting the 1st update of the
month), the prior year’s (same month) transactions must be deleted and the files backed-up to floppy
disk. Procedures to back up files and delete processing month transactions are explained in Chapter 5,
File Utilities.


        Select option “B” (Convert DJMS Update) from the Main Menu. The following screen prompt
will appear:


                            CONVERT FILE: C\DTAFO\IN961103.DAT


                               START CONVERSION (Y)ES OR (N)O


        EARS requires the user to verify the file name identified in the conversion screen as the file name
selected in option “A” (Get DJMS Update). Enter "Y" (YES) to start the conversion or "N" (NO) to
stop the conversion. Conversion takes several minutes depending on the size of the DJMS update. Once
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1509


conversion starts, the computer cannot be used for anything else. The conversion goes through several
steps and the processing status is displayed at the bottom of the screen.


        Following conversion, a screen prompt requires the user to delete the original DJMS update file
from the hard drive (the DTAFO or MILPAY subdirectory, not from the EARS program) or to save the
file. Enter "Y" (YES) to delete the file, or "N" (NO) to keep the file. The DJMS update file is not
required for further processing within the EARS programs.


        To verify if a DJMS update file was converted to EARS, select option "D" (File Utilities) from
the Main Menu, then select option "A" (List DJMS Updates Converted to EARS System) from the File
Utilities Menu. A list of converted updates is displayed to include the update number, processing date and
number of transactions.


       Below is a screen image of option “A” (List DJMS Updates Converted to EARS System):


                        A = List DJMS Updates Converted To EARS System


                DTR              PROC DATE               ADSN                 TRANS
                10-10              96/10/09              4807                   15
                10-09              96/10/08              4807                  438
                10-08              96/10/07              4807                   58
                10-07              96/10/04              4807                  140
                10-06              96/10/03              4807                  283
                10-05              96/10/02              4807                  170
                10-04              96/10/01              4807                  203
                10-03              96/09/30              4807                  630
                10-02              96/09/27              4807                  752


3.3. CONVERSION ERRORS


       Should errors be detected during the conversion process, select option “D” (File Utilities) from
the Main Menu, then select option “E” (Fix File Conversion Errors and Reindex Files) from the File Util-
ities Menu.


       Following is a screen image of option “E” (Fix File Conversion Errors and Reindex Files):
1510                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                             E - Fix File Conversion Errors And Reindex Files


              A = Reindex Transaction History File
              B = Delete Duplicate Transactions
              C = Reindex Miscellaneous Files
              D = Delete Update from Transaction History File
              E = Correct Processing Date for Daily Update


        Once selected, options “A”, “B”, and “C” will process to completion without any action on the
part of the user and EARS will return to the File Utilities Menu.


          For options “D” and “E” follow the on screen prompts, and EARS will return to the File Utilities
Menu.


          File conversion errors are discussed in more detail in Chapter 5, File Utilities.


SECTION 4.0 TRANSFER TO ADDITIONAL PC’s


        After completion of the conversion process, downloaded update(s) can be copied to diskettes and
transferred to computers in other sections of the servicing pay office. Verify the processing month shown
on the Main Menu is correct. If not, select option ”C” from the Main Menu and correct the processing
month.


        All backup disks must be blank formatted - use normal DOS commands to format the disk or
delete old files. EARS will backup files to any type and size disk. EARS will determine file type and size
of the disk and copy records accordingly.


       These procedures apply to the operation of EARS in a stand alone PC environment only. Files do
not have to be transferred in a LAN system environment.


4.1. COPY UPDATES TO DISK


          Select option “D” (File Utilities) from the Main Menu and the following File Utilities Menu will
appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      1511


                                             D = File Utilities


             A = List DJMS Updates Converted to EARS System
             B = Setup EARS Program and Printers
             C = Assign Passwords and Access Levels
             D = Start New Month and Delete Prior Year’s Transactions
             E = Fix File Conversion Errors and Reindex Files
             F = Source Code Maintenance
             G = Copy DJMS Updates to and from Floppy Disks
             H = Update Reject Codes and Corrective Action
             I = Backup and Restore Transaction History File
             X = Return to Processing Menu


       Select option “G” (Copy DJMS Updates To and From Floppy Disks). A second menu will appear
with several processing options.


          Following is a screen image of the second screen:


             A = Backup DJMS Update to Floppy Disk
             B = Restore DJMS Updates File from Floppy Disk


          Select option “A” (Backup DJMS Update to Floppy Disk) and the following screen images will
appear:


             This routine copies the DJMS updates to floppy disks for transfer to another
             computer or permanent storage. Please ensure floppy disks are formatted.
             Insert new disks when prompted and the disk light goes out. Label backup
             disks with the processing month and year. Enter the beginning and ending
             update numbers; for example, 12-01 to 12-15


                        DTR NUMBERS: FROM __-__ TO __-__
                        ENTER BACKUP DRIVE (A, B, OR Q TO QUIT)              (_)
1512                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         Enter the update number(s). More than one update can be copied provided the updates are inclu-
sive, i.e.: 10-01 through 10-03 will copy updates 10-1, 10-2, and 10-3. If the updates are not inclusive,
the file copy routine must be requested for each update and separate diskettes used.


        Enter the appropriate disk drive letter (A or B). The routine aborts if the drive letter is blank or if
a drive letter other than “A” or “B” is entered. EARS will create the DJMS update file and screen
prompts will advise the user when to enter the disk.


       Insert a blank formatted disk in the applicable drive, then press any key. EARS will determine
the number of disk required to copy the file based upon the disk size and the size of the update file. Insert
additional disk when prompted.


       Once the update(s) is copied, on screen prompts will ask if other copies are to be made. If so, enter
“Y” to make additional copies or “N” to exit.


4.2. RESTORE UPDATES FROM DISK


         This option is used to copy DJMS update results from a diskette to the EARS master files on a per-
sonal computer. These procedures assume the DJMS file has been downloaded by the EARS program to
diskette as described in 3.1 above. First, verify the processing month shown on the Main Menu is correct.
If not, select option ”C” from the Main Menu and correct the processing month.


      Select option “D” (File Utilities) from the Main Menu then select option “G” (Copy DJMS
Updates to and from Floppy Disk) from the File Utilities Menu. The following screen image will appear.


                        A = Backup DJMS Update to Floppy Disk
                        B = Restore DJMS Updates File from Floppy Disk


       Select option “B” (Restore DJMS Update File from Floppy Disk) and the following screen
images will appear.


                                Copy DJMS Updates from Floppy Disk
            This routine copies the DJMS updates from floppy disks. Please ensure the
            processing month is set to the correct month. Insert backup disks when
            prompted. Important: Disks can be copied in any sequence, except that the
            last disk of the backup set must be copied last. After the last disk is restored,
            press the (ESC) key to quit.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                  1513



              ENTER DISK DRIVE OF BACKUP FILES (A, B, OR Q TO QUIT) (_)


        Insert the backup disk in the appropriate drive, select the disk drive letter (A or B) and EARS will
start copying the update(s) to the hard drive. This routine aborts if the drive letter is blank or a drive letter
other then “A” or “B” is entered, or the backup file cannot be found on the disk.
        Insert additional disk when requested by the on screen prompts. When all disks have been copied,
press the “ESC” key to quit. WARNING: Leave the last disk in the drive when pressing the “ESC” key.
EARS adds the update information to the DJMS Updates Converted File.


      To verify if an update file was transferred to EARS, select option “A” from the File Utilities
Menu and a list of all updates converted will be displayed.


        To correct errors as a result of the transfer, select option “E” (Fix File Conversion Errors) from
the File Utilities Menu and follow the instructions to either delete the update and start over or use the
option to delete duplicate transactions.
1514                           AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007




       PAGE RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1515


                                           Attachment 27D


                               CHAPTER 3 CUSTOMER INQUIRES


SECTION 1.0 GENERAL


        The DJMS Update Results File, once converted to the EARS program, becomes the Transaction
History File. This file contains all processed, rejected, recycled transactions, management notices, one
time pay authorizations and by-others transactions by update or processing month. Daily DJMS Update
results are consolidated into the current processing month database in SSAN sequence regardless of the
update.


        The Customer Inquires Menu options simplify the research process, decrease time necessary to
answer pay inquiries and eliminates the need to maintain paper copy reports. The Transaction History
File allows the user to work Management Notices, and the Reject/Recycled transaction reports by use of
a “MEMO” to indicate actions taken or pending.


       EARS displays records for the current processing month only. To select another processing
month, use option “C” from the Main Menu.
1516                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


SECTION 2.0 TRANSACTION HISTORY FILE


       Select option “N” from the Main Menu and the Transaction History File screen will appear.


       First Screen Option N - Transaction History File


        ID      SSAN         NAME          FID    VARIABLE DATA - TRANSACTION
        M     699011003      HOLDE        XY03 0 MBR INDEBT ADDITIONAL
                                               ENTLMNT PROCESS
        O     699011004      EDWAR        PQ03 960930 $132.87 530
        R     699011005      CASSE        E503 960930RBD000000000000000001 000
        Z     699011006      POTTE        AD02 96100300000 11    000000
        Y     699011007      DEEDM        SG03 96040396040341AUS     A96040300 0


       F2 Exit To Main Menu F3 Find SSAN F4 Memo Record
       F5 Management Notices F6 Rejects F7 All Records
       F8 Recycles       F9 Correct ISC


       P = Processed Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Reject
       T = By Others O = Payments M = Mgt Notice


      The Transaction History File consist of five screens. Use the “page up”, “page down” or the “up
or down arrow” keys to scroll through all transactions in the History File. Use the “right arrow” key to
advance screens to view additional data elements for each transaction.


       The Transactions History File does not have a print option. However; use the function keys to
“Print Screen” if a hard copy is needed.


        ID field identifies status of each transaction. ID codes are listed on the bottom of the screen.
Transaction History File screens two through five contain additional data explaining the status of each
transaction.


       Transaction History File function key operations:


               (1) F2 Exit to Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1517



             (2) F3 Find SSAN: Used to select a specific account by SSAN. Enter 1 to 5 digits of the
SSAN and press the “Enter” key. EARS skips to the first record matching the input. Use the “page up”,
“page down” or the “up and down arrow” keys to locate the record.


                (3) F4 Memo Record: Used to add a “Memo” to the rejected and recycled transaction
reports, and the management notice report.


       To add a “Memo”, select Management Notices; Rejects; or Recycles by pressing the appropriate
function key. Highlight the transaction, then press the F4 function key and the following screen appears.
The name, SSAN, update number and transaction data is generated by EARS.


                        NAME: SMITH SSAN: 699011001 Update: 10-13
                        2302 961010 12BK
                        OLD Code: _   Memo:


        Action Codes and Description vary depending upon the type of report selected. Select the appro-
priate Action Code and the “Memo” is added as a permanent entry on the History File and will print on
the Reject, Recycle and Management Notice reports.


                                       F5 Management Notices


                                   Action Codes and Descriptions
                         1 = Pay Record Updated - Mgt Notice Corrected
                         2 = Member Notified
                         3 = No Action Required
                         4 = Memo Input by Technician
                         0 = Exit With No Change
1518                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              F6 Rejects


                                   Action Codes and Descriptions
                         1 = Corrected and Resubmitted
                         2 = Error in Document - Return to Input Source
                         3 = Transaction Erroneous - Not Resubmitted
                         4 = Memo Input by Technician
                         0 = Exit With No Change


                                             F8 Recycles


                                   Action Codes and Descriptions
                         1 = Input Made to Update Pay Record
                         2 = No Action Required
                         3 = Action Memo Input by Technician
                         0 = Exit With No Change


              (4) F5 Management Notices: Used to list only management notice transactions in SSAN
order.


              (5) F6 Rejects: Used to list only rejected transactions in SSAN order.


              (6) F7 All Records: Used to list all transactions in SSAN order.


              (7) F8 Recycles: Used to list only recycled transactions in SSAN order.


                (8) F9 Correct ISC: Used to correct erroneous input source codes (ISC) caused by coding
errors. Press the F9 function key and the following screen appears. The name, SSAN, update number,
transaction data and old source code is generated by EARS. Input the new source code, press enter and
the user will be returned to the history file.


          Name: SMITH                  SSAN: 699011230               Update: 10-12
          2303 961010 12BK
          Old Source Code: JD          New Source Code: __
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1519



         Below is the second screen image of the Transaction History File reflecting additional data ele-
ments.


         Second Screen     Transaction History File


     ID        SSAN         NAME        FID    VARIABLE DATA -1ST TRAILER                     ADSN
                                               CARD
     M       699011003     HOLDE       XY03                                                    4807
     O       699011004     EDWAR       PQ03 ROBERT H EDWARDS                                   4807
     R       699011005     CASSE       E503 PO BOX 888                                         4807
     Z       699011006     POTTE       AD02 CATHERINE NAMMER                                   4807


    F2 Exit To Main Menu   F3 Find SSAN                  F4 Memo Record
    F5 Management Notices   F6 Rejects                  F7 All Records
    F8 Recycles        F9 Correct ISC


    P = Processed Z = Reject R = Recycle   Y = Partial Reject
    T = By Others O = Payments M = Mgt Notice
1520                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


         Below is the third screen image of the Transaction History File reflecting additional data ele-
ments.


         Third Screen Transaction History File


  ID         SSAN     NAME SOURCE DTR DATE        Err1 Err2 CYCLE SEQ
  M        699011003 HOLDE   AB   10-04 96/10/02
  O        699011004 EDWAR   CF   10-04 96/10/02
  R        699011005 CASSE    FB  10-09 96/10/03 RBR              0044
  Z        699011006 POTTE   FM   10-04 9610/01 XBO ABU J1        0047


  F2 Exit To Main Menu F3 Find SSAN F4 Memo Record
  F5 Management Notices F6 Rejects F7 All Records
  F8 Recycles       F9 Correct ISC


  P = Processed Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Reject
  T = By Others O = Payments M = Mgt Notice


         Below is the fourth screen image of the Transaction History File reflecting additional data ele-
ments.


         Fourth Screen         Transaction History File


            ID     SSAN        NAME        FID    VARIABLE DATA - 2ND TRAILER
                                                  CARD
            M    699011003 HOLDE XY03
            O    699011004 EDWAR PQ03
            R    699011005 CASSE E503 BENNETT                            C0 801021
            Z    699011006 POTTE AD02 PO BOX 150


           F2 Exit To Main Menu  F3 Find SSAN F4 Memo Record
           F5 Management Notices F6 Rejects   F7 All Records
           F8 Recycles       F9 Correct ISC

           P = Processed Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Reject
           T = By Others O = Payments M = Mgt Notice
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1521



       Below is the fifth screen image of the Transaction History File with “Memos” added.


       Fifth Screen        Transaction History File


         ID      SSAN   NAME VARIABLE DATA -3RD TRAILER                                  ADSN
                               CARD
         M 699011003 HOLDE
         O 699011004 EDWAR Input made to Update pay Record                                 RF
         R 699011005 CASSE 1 = No Action Required
         Z 699011006 POTTE corrected and Resubmitted                                       PE
         Y 699011007 DEEDM                                                                 RF
        F2 Exit To Main Menu F3 Find SSAN F4 Memo Record
        F5 Management Notices F6 Rejects  F7 All Records
        F8 Recycles       F9 Correct ISC


        P = Processed Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Reject
        T = By Others O = Payments M = Mgt Notice

SECTION 3.0 GENERAL SEARCH


        This option is provided to aid in resolving pay inquiries and in working reject/recycled transaction
reports and management notices. Select option “O” from the Main Menu and the following menu will
appear:


                          A = Transaction History File
                          B = Unit Leave Log
                          C = Processed DJMS Update Transactions


       To select a processing option from the General Search Menu, press the letter corresponding to the
processing option or use the “up or down arrow” keys to highlight the option then press the “Enter”
key.


        Following a processing option selection, a report menu screen will appear allowing the user to
define the report parameters and sort sequence. Processing procedures are displayed on each report
screen.
1522                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        After entry of the requested data on the report menu, the EARS program goes through several
steps and the processing status is displayed on the bottom of the screen. Once EARS has formatted the
information in the sort sequence requested, the following on screen prompt will appear:
                               Output to (S)creen, (P)rinter) or (A)bort-- (_)


          Select the output to (S)creen option and the report will appear on the screen for viewing.
        Select the output to (P)rinter option to print the report. Reports can be printed using any type of
printer (ALPS, Epson, HP LaserJet, etc.) on wide or normal size (8 1/2 x 11) paper. To print on normal
size paper, set the printer to “condensed” print.


3.1. TRANSACTION HISTORY FILE


       Used to locate and print transactions for specific SSANs, format IDs or error codes. Several
options are available to select and print reports. As a minimum, either the FID, Error Code or SSAN
must be entered. If all selection criteria is left blank, the routine aborts.


          Select option “A” (Transaction History File) from the Search menu and the following menu will
appear.
                                        A - Transaction History File


                               General Search - SSAN, FID, or Error Code
              FID: Enter 4 digit FIDAI (SB03), 2 Digit FID type (SB=Leaves),
                  or 1 digit FID for category (S=status) or leave blank
             Error: Enter 3 digit error code or leave blank
             Files: A = All 12 months     C = Current Month Records Only
             Input: A = All Transactions J = JDC III Input only
              Page: N = No page Break Y = Page Break after SSAN
              SSAN: Enter up to 8 Social Security Numbers or leave blank

          FID: ____     Error: ____     Files: _     Input: _ Page: _
          SSAN: _________ SSAN: _________ SSAN: _________ SSAN: _________
          SSAN: _________ SSAN: _________ SSAN: _________ SSAN: _________


          Determine and enter the search parameters:


          FID (format ID and action indicator): Four options are available:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              1523



              (1) Enter the 4-digit format ID/action indicator to select a specific transaction (i.e.; 3501,
4003, SG03, etc.).


                 (2) Enter the 2-digit format ID to select a specific type of transaction. For example, enter
35 to select all 3501, 3502, 3503, 3504 or 3505 transactions.


                (3) Enter the 1st digit of the format ID to select a transaction category. For example, enter
“S” to select all status transactions (SB03, SH03, SG03, SJ04, SB06, etc.).


                (4) Leave blank, all transactions are selected.


       Error Code:


                (1) Enter a 3-digit error code to select transactions with a specific error code.


                (2) Leave blank to select all transactions.


       Files:


                (1) Enter “A” to select all transactions in the 12-month Transaction History File.


                (2) Enter “C” to select transactions on the current month Transaction History File.


       Input:


              (1) Enter “A” to select all transactions (processed, rejects, recycles, by-others, manage-
ment notices and 1-time pay authorizations).


                (2) Enter “J” to select only JDC III input (processed, rejects and recycles).


       SSAN: Enter 1 to 8 social security numbers. Leave blank to select all records.


       Below is an example of a search request for “Leave” transactions.
1524                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       First Screen           General Search


            D      SSAN          NAME         FIDAI               Variable Data
            P    699011001      SMITH          SB03     960926961007A0001ME0059300
            P    699011002      JONES          SB03     960918960929A0001BK00587000
            Z    699011002      JONES          SB03     960919960929A0001BK00587000
            P    699011004      EDWAR          SB03     960626960708 ME96335

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


       The General Search reports consist of two screens. Additional data elements are reflected on the
following screen.


                                              General Search


          ID       SSAN           NAME          FIDAI       CYCLE       DTR           DATE
           P     699011001       SMITH           SB03         Q7        11-05        96/11/05
           P     699011002       JONES           SB03         Q7        11-05        96/11/05
           Z     699011002       JONES           SB03         Q7        11-05        96/11/05
           P     699011004       EDWAR           SB03         Q7        11-05        96/11/05

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


       Select the output to (P)rinter option to print the report.


3.2. UNIT LEAVE LOG            Not Available at this Time


3.3. PROCESSED DJMS UPDATE TRANSACTIONS


        This routine will list all prior recycled transactions that processed for each update, to include:
update number, processing date, cycle number and sequence number. Use this option to verify if a recy-
cled transaction (from a previous update) has processed. Note: If a recycled transaction rejected, it will
show as a reject in the transaction history file.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1525


        Select option “C” (Processed DJMS Update Transactions) from the Search menu and the follow-
ing screen will appear:


                              C - Processed DJMS Update Transactions


                         UPDATE PROC DATE CYCLE                      SEQUENCE
                           10-7   10/04/96  29                          0032
                           10-7   10/04/96  29                          0002
                           10-7   10/04/96  29                          0006
                           10-7   10/04/96  29                          0027
                           10-7   10/04/96  29                          0028
                           10-1   10/04/96  17                          0029

                           F2 Exit To Main Menu         F3 Find Transaction


       Two options are available to locate a specific transaction:
                (1)    Use the “page up”, “page down” or the “up or down arrow” keys to scroll
through all transactions to locate a specific transaction.


               (2)    Press the “F3” function key and the following screen will appear:


                         Enter Cycle And Sequence Number: __ - ____


       Enter the Cycle and Sequence Number and the transaction will be located and moved to the first
entry on the screen.


SECTION 4.0 STATISTICAL REPORTS


        Timeliness and accuracy reports provide information by source code, format ID and error code.
These reports are based on transactions input for each source code. Based on the reports, training needs
by unit or individual can easily be identified.


      Reports are based on transactions input in the current processing month (as shown on the EARS
Main Menu). To set or change the processing month, select option “C” from the Main Menu.
1526                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      To determine the type report required, select option “P” from the Main Menu and the following
menu appears listing options for all reports available:


                        P - Statistical Reports


                                   A = Select Processing Month
                                   B = Transitions by Cycle
                                   C = Cycle Summary
                                   D = Unit Input Summary
                                   E = Rejects by FID
                                   F = Rejects by FID/Error
                                   G = Training Report
                                   H = Input Timeliness Report
                                   X = Exit to Main Menu


        To select a report, enter the letter corresponding to the report, or use the “up and down” arrow
keys to highlight the report name, then press the “Enter” key.


        After a processing option has been selected, a report menu screen will appear allowing the user to
define the report parameters and sort sequence. Processing procedures are displayed on each report
screen. Common report parameters and sort sequence are identified below; however, not all reports
require the same parameters:


         ADSN: EARS will prompt the ADSN established during installation. If this ADSN is correct,
press the “Enter” key. If not, enter the correct ADSN and press the “Enter” key. If the ADSN is 3-digits
or less, the routine aborts.


        Updates: Enter the beginning and ending update number. Update numbers are entered as
“10-01”, “12-09”, “02-05”, “04-17”, etc. To request one update, enter the same update number in both
entries (i.e., 08-03 to 08-03). If either update number is blank or less than 4 digits, the routine aborts. The
update numbers must agree with the current processing month. For example, to request reports for
updates 02-01 through 02-20, the processing month must be February.


        Team ID: Enter the 1, 2 or 3 digit Team ID code or leave blank. A team is a grouping of source
codes; for example, all source codes assigned to a PAC team. If left blank, all source codes are selected.
If the Team ID is entered, only source codes belonging to that Team ID are selected.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1527


       Input Source Code: Enter the source code to select records for a specific unit or input source.
Leave blank to print all transactions.


        After entry of the requested data, the EARS program goes through several steps and the process-
ing status is displayed on the bottom of the screen. Once EARS has formatted the information in the
search parameters requested, the following on screen prompt will appear:


Output to (S)creen, (P)rinter) or (A)bort-- (S)


       Select the output to (S)creen option and the report will appear on screen for viewing.


        Select the output to (P)rinter option to print the report. Reports can be printed using any type of
printer (ALPS, Epson, HP LaserJet, etc.) on wide or normal size (8 1/2 x 11) paper. To print on normal
size paper, set the printer to “condensed” print.


        To view all data elements on the reports, use the “page up”, “page down” or the “up or down
arrow” keys to scroll through all accounts. Use the “right arrow” key to advance screens to view addi-
tional data elements for each account.


4.1. SELECT PROCESSING MONTH


        Used to select the processing month for file conversion, printing reports, viewing records or error
identification. The EARS program maintains records for 12 months.


       Select option “A” (Select Processing Month) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following
screen will appear.
                                      A = Select Processing Month


          A = January                                 G = July
          B = February                                H = August
          C = March                                   I = September
          D = April                                   J = October
          E = May                                     K = November
          F = June                                    L = December
                                                      M = History
1528                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        To select the processing month, press the letter next to the month, or, use the "up or down arrow"
keys to highlight the month, then press the "Enter" key.


4.2. TRANSACTIONS BY CYCLE


      This report provides a list of all transactions processed for each cycle number. It can be requested
in Name, SSAN, update or Cycle number sequence.


       Select option “B” (Transactions by Cycle) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following
screen will appear.


                    B - Transactions by Cycle


             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
             Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-10)
              Cycle: Enter cycle number or leave blank for all records
               Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all records
             Sequence: N = Name S = SSAN D = DTR C = Cycle
                  (C = Doc # Sequence & Page Break after Cycle)
                  (D = SSAN Sequence & Page Break After DTR)

       ADSN: ____ Updates: ____ To ____ Cycle: ____ Team: __ Sequence: _


       The following report reflects a request by cycle number in SSAN sequence.


       First Screen     Processed Transactions by Cycle


        ID     SSAN         NAME        FID                  VARIABLE DATA
        Z      699011001    SMITH       E203     960906001111SMITH JOHN Q R33MA
        Z      699011002    JONES       6801     960807 80045 10812001H
        P      699011003    HOLDE       LH04     961001
                                                 1171031485HOLDENICC124000012
        P      699011004    EDWAR       DC01     9610   2
        S      699011005    CASSE       SA04     960714     3

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
                P = Process     Z = Reject      R = Recycle      Y = Partial Process
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1529



        The Processed Transaction by Cycle consists of two screens. Additional data elements are
reflected on the following screen.


       Second Screen          Processed Transactions by Cycle


         ID     SSAN        NAME Err1 Err2              DTR     DATE       ISC CYCLE SEQ
        Z     699011001    SMITH ZBD MUX               10-07   96/10/04   FC    PO   0001
        Z     699011002    JONES                       10-07   96/10/04   FB    M2   0002
        P     699011003    HOLDE                       10-07   96/10/04   FH    MO   0007
        P     699011004    EDWAR                       10-07   96/10/04   2G    M2   0003
        S     699011005    CASSE ZDL                           96/10/04   V1    MO   0006

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
               P = Process      Z = Reject     R = Recycle       Y = Partial Process


4.3. CYCLE SUMMARY


         This report provides the total number of transactions input, processed, and rejected by cycle num-
ber. It also provides accuracy rates and the total number of accounts updated. It can be requested in Cycle
number, Transaction count, or Accuracy rate sequence.


        Select option “C” (Cycle Summary) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following screen
will appear.


                                  Option C - Cycle Summary Report


           This report provides the total number of transactions input,
           processed, and rejected by cycle number. It also provides
           accuracy rates and the total number of accounts updated.
             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
             Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all cycles
           Sequence: C = Cycle T = Transactions A = Accuracy

               ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: __ Sequence: _
1530                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       Following is an example of a report selected by Cycle sequence.


                      C - Transaction Accuracy by Cycle Number Sequence


          Cycle       Total          Total           Total          Accuracy        Pay
                      Input         Process         Rejects           Rate        Accounts
           MO           10             9               1              90.00           9
           M1           52            52               0             100.00          36
           M2           20            19               1              95.00          18


        TOTAL           82            80                  2              95.00       63

       Press any key to continue - (ESC) to quit


       Following is an example of a report selected by Transaction sequence.


                        C - Transaction Accuracy by Transaction Sequence


         Cycle        Total         Total           Total         Accuracy         Pay
                      Input        Process         Rejects          Rate         Accounts
            M1          52           52               0            100.00           36
            M2          20           19               1             95.00           18
            MO          10            9               1             90.00            9

         TOTAL         82            80               2              95.00         63

       Press any key to continue - (ESC) to quit


       Following is an example of a report selected by Accuracy sequence.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1531


                          C - Transaction Accuracy by Accuracy Sequence


          Cycle        Total         Total            Total         Accuracy         Pay
                       Input        Process          Rejects          Rate         Accounts
             M1          52           52                0            100.00           36
             Y9           2            2                0            100.00            1
             M2          20           19                1             95.00           18


           TOTAL         74           73                1             98.33            55

       Press any key to continue - (ESC) to quit


4.4. UNIT INPUT SUMMARY


       This report provides the total number of transactions input, processed, and rejected by source
code. It also provides accuracy rates and the total number of accounts updated. It can be requested in
Source code, Transaction count, or Accuracy rate sequence.


       Select option “D” (Source Code Summary) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following
screen will appear.


                               Option D - Input Source Summary Report


           This report provides the total number of transactions input,
           processed, and rejected by source code. It also provides accuracy rates and
           the total number of accounts updated.
             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
             Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all cycles
           Sequence: S = Source T = Transactions A = Accuracy

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: __ Sequence: _
       Following is an example of a report selected by Source sequence.
1532                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                 D - Unit Input Summary Report


           ISC     Input      Process          Rejects           Accuracy      Accounts
            2G       1           1               0                100.00          1
           AB        1           1               0                100.00          1
           AG        1           0               1                 0.00           1
           AN        1           0               1                 0.00           1

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


       Following is an example of a report selected by Transaction sequence.


                                 D - Unit Input Summary Report


          ISC      Input         Process           Rejects         Accuracy    Accounts
          WE         52            52                0              100.00        36
           FB        11             3                8               27.27         5
          VM          7             7                0              100.00         5
           EF         6             4                2               66.67         1

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


       Following is an example of a report selected by Accuracy sequence.


                                 D - Unit Input Summary Report


          ISC      Input         Process           Rejects        Accuracy     Accounts
           2G         1             1                0             100.00          1
          AB          1             1                8             100.00          1
          WE         52            52                0             100.00         36
          EE          4             4                2             100.00          2

       F2 Exit to Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1533


4.5. REJECTS BY FID


         This report provides the total number of transactions input, processed and rejected by Format ID.
It also shows the input percentage and reject percentage for each FID. For example, “E6” transactions
represent 9% of all input, but 20% of all rejects.


        Select option “E” (Rejects by FID) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following screen
will appear.


                          Option E - Reject Analysis-Transaction Accuracy


       This report provides the total number of transactions processed,
       and Accuracy rate by FID. It identifies potential problem areas and training needs.
         ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
       Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
         Team: Enter 1, 2, or 3 digit Team ID or leave blank

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


       Following is an example of the report requesting all FIDs.


                            Reject Analysis - Transaction (FID) Accuracy


            FID        Input      Process      Rejects    Accuracy % Rejects %          Input
             22         1492       1264         228          84.72     28.11            25.00
            LC          1312       1310           2          99.85      0.25            21.98
             23         1246        877         369          70.39     45.50            20.87
             lG          538        520          18          96.65      2.22             9.01
             65          535        421         114          78.69     14.06             8.96

       F2 Exit to Main Menu
1534                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


4.6. REJECTS BY FID/ERROR


       This report provides the total number of rejects for each FID and error code combination.


       Select option “F” (Rejects by FID/Error) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following
screen will appear.


                           Option F - Reject Analysis - FID and Error Code


           This report provides the total number of rejects for each FID and
           error code. It identifies potential problem areas and training needs.
             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
             Team: Enter 1, 2, or 3 digit Team ID or leave blank

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


       Following is an example of the report reflecting all FIDs and teams.


                              Reject Analysis - Transaction and Error Code


                      FIDAI                          ERROR                        TOTAL
                       2506                           EMS                           1
                       2506                           MSL                           1
                       3501                           EDD                           1
                       3601                           ZBV                           1

       F2 Exit to Main Menu
4.7. TRAINING REPORT


         This report identifies accuracy rate by Format ID for each source code and provides (1) total trans-
actions by FID, (2) total rejected and processed transactions by FID, and (3) accuracy rate. This informa-
tion is useful for training purposes.


        Select option “G” (Training Report) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following screen
will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1535



                                     Option G - Training Report


           This report identifies accuracy rate by FID for each source code.
           Statistics provided are (1) total transactions by FID, (2) total rejected and
           processed transactions by FID, and (3) accuracy rate. You should use this
           information for training purposes.
              ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
              Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


       Following is an example of the report reflecting a specific source code.


                            Option G - Reject Analysis - Training Report


              ISC           FID         INPUT        PROCESS       REJECTS        ACCURAC
                                                                                       Y
              2G            FK             1              1              0          100.00
              2G            LC             1              1              0          100.00
              2G            36             1              0              1            0.00
              2G            68             1              0              1            0.00
              2G            AD             1              1              0          100.00

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


4.8. INPUT TIMELINESS REPORT


        This routine provides several timeliness reports based on Format ID and source code. Most
reports show summary data only. However, detail reports are available to prove all late transactions.


      Select option “H” (Input Timeliness Report) from the Statistical Reports Menu and the following
menu screen will appear.
1536                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                             Input Processing Timeliness by Source Code


           A = Summary of Format ID
           B = Summary by Source Code & Format ID
           C = Summary by Format ID & Action Indicator
           D = Summary by Source Code - Format ID & Action Indicator
           E = Summary by Input Source
           F = Unit Commander’s Report
           G = Detail Print - Late Transactions
           H = How Timeliness Rates are Computed


        To select a option from the Timeliness Report menu, press the letter corresponding to the process-
ing option or use the “up or down arrow” keys to highlight the option and then press the “Enter” key.


       For complete explanation of the rules, exceptions, rational, and processes involved in determining
the timeliness of transaction input, select option “H” (How Timeliness Rates are Computed) from the
Input Timeliness Report Menu. This selection will automatically produce a printout detailing the process.


4.8.1. SUMMARY OF FORMAT ID


       Select option “A” from the Timeliness Report Menu and the following screen will appear.


                                  Timeliness Report by Transaction


           This report provides aging in 10 day increments for each Format
           ID. Transactions are on time if processed within 30 days after the effective
           date. Separation and Reenlistment transactions are late if input on or after
           the date of separation.
             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
             Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


       Following is an example of the report reflecting all records.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     1537


                               Processing Timeliness by Format ID


    FID    <-30   -21-30   -11-20    -1-10   +0-10 +11-20 +21-30 >+31 TOTAL             ON
                                                                                       TIME
    15       0      0         1        0        0        2        0     0       3        3
    25       0      0         2        0        0        1        0     0        3       3
    30       0      0         1        0        0        5        0     2       8        6
    36       0      0         0        1        0        7        0     1        9       8
    40       0      0         1        0        0        9        0     3       13      10

     F2 Exit to Main Menu


4.8.2. SUMMARY BY SOURCE CODE & FORMAT ID


     Select option “B” from the Timeliness Report Menu and the following screen will appear.


                           Timeliness Report by Unit and Format ID


          This report provides aging in 10 day increments for each
          transaction within Source Code. Transactions are considered on time if
          processed within 30 days after the effective date. Reenlistment and separation
          transactions are late if input on or after the date of separation.
            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
          Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

     ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


     Following is an example of the report reflecting a specific ISC.
1538                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                               ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


             ISC         FID        <-30       -21-30       -11-20      -1-10      +0-10
              2G         XX          0           0             0          0          1
              2G         LC          0           0             0          0          1
              2G         XX          0           0             0          0          1
              2G         SB          0           0             0          0          0

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


        The Timeliness Report by Input Source Code consists of two screens. Additional data elements
are reflected on the following screen.


                               ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


             ISC        FID        +11-20      +21-30       >+31      TOTAL ON TIME
              2G        XX           0           0           0          1      1
              2G        LC           0           0           0          1      1
              2G        XX           0           0           0          1      1
              2G        SB           0           0           1          1      0

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


4.8.3. SUMMARY BY FORMAT ID & ACTION INDICATOR


       Select option “C” from the Timeliness Report Menu and the following screen will appear.
                                 Timeliness Report by Transaction


          This report provides aging in 10 day increments for each Format ID
          and Action indicator. Transactions are on time if processed within 30 days
          after the effective date. Separation and reenlistment transactions are late if
          processed on or after the date of separation.
             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
          Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
             Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1539



       Following is an example of the report reflecting Format ID.


                                Processing Timeliness by Transaction


            FIDA1          <-30             -21-30         -11-20          -1-10       +0-10
             1502           0                 0               0              0           1
             2506           0                 0               0              0           2
             3001           0                 0               0              0           0
             3002           0                 0               0              0           1

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


       The Timeliness Report by Format ID & Indicator consists of two screens. Additional data ele-
ments are reflected on the following screen.


                                Processing Timeliness by Transaction


           +11-20      +21-30         >+31           TOTAL          ON TIME        % ON TIME
             0           0             0               1               1             100.00
              0           0             0              2               2             100.00
              0           0             1              1               0               0.00
              0           0             0              1               1             100.00

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


4.8.4. SUMMARY BY SOURCE CODE - FORMAT ID & ACTION INDICATOR


       Select option “D” from the Timeliness Report Menu and the following screen will appear.
1540                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                               Timeliness Report by Unit & Format ID


          This report provides aging in 10 day increments for each
          transaction within Source Code. Transactions are considered on time if
          processed within 30 days after the effective date. Reenlistment and separation
          transactions are late if input on or after the date of separation.
            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
          Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


       Following is an example of the report by ISC.


                               ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


            ISC        FIDA1         <-30            - 21-30      - 11-20   - 1-10   + 0-10
             2G         SN03          0                 0            0         0        1
            AB         LC04           0                 0            0         0        1
             AS         E503          0                 0            0         0        1

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


        The Timeliness Report by Unit and Format ID & Indicator consists of two screens. Additional
data elements are reflected on the following screen.


                               ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


            + 11 -20     + 21 - 30          > + 31        TOTAL       ON TIME % ON TIME
               0             0                0             1            1      100.00
               0             0                0             1            1      100.00
               0             0                0             1            1      100.00

       F2 Exit to Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1541


4.8.5. SUMMARY BY INPUT SOURCE


       Select option “E” from the Timeliness Report Menu and the following screen will appear.


                                Timeliness Report by Input Source


          This report provides aging in 10 day increments for each Source
          Code. Transactions are considered on time if processed within 30 days after
          the effective date. Reenlistment and separation transactions are late if
          processed on or after the date of separation.
            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
          Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


       Following is an example of the Timeliness report by Input Source Code.


                              ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


          ISC       <-30       -21-30      -11-20       -1-10         +0-10       +11-20
          AB         0            0           0           0             1           0
          AB         0            0           0           0             1           0
          AB         0            0           0           0             0           0
          AB         0            1           0           0             5           0
          AB         0            1           0           0             0           0

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


        The Timeliness Report by Input Source Code consists of two screens. Additional data elements
are reflected on the following screen.
1542                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                               ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


             +21-30          >+31          TOTAL         ON TIME         % ON TIME
               0              0              1              1              100.00
               0              0              1              1              100.00
               0              1              1              0                0.00
               0              0              6              6              100.00
               0              1              1              1                0.00

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


4.8.6. UNIT COMMANDER’S REPORT


       Select option “F” from the Timeliness Report Menu and the following screen will appear.


                                     Timeliness Report by Unit


          This report provides aging in 10 day increments for each Source
          Code. Transactions are considered on time if processed within 30 days after
          the effective date. Reenlistment and separation transactions are late if
          processed on or after the date of separation.
            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
          Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


       Following is an example of the Timeliness report by unit.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     1543


                             ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


                         UNIT                   TOTAL INPUT ON                 % ON
                                                            TIME               TIME
       CO A 151 ARTY BN                              1         1               100.00
       CO C 151 ARTY BN                              1         1               100.00
       HQ 3RD OF THE 5TH INF BN                      1         0                 0.00
       HQ 151 ENGR BN (HEAVY)                        6         6               100.00
       HHC 3RD TRANS BN                              1         0                 0.00

     F2 Exit to Main Menu


4.8.7. DETAIL PRINT - LATE TRANSACTIONS


     Select option “G” from the Timeliness Report Menu and the following screen will appear.


                             Timeliness Report - Late Transactions


        This report provides a detail list of transactions input late (31
        days after effective date). All reenlistment and separation transactions input
        on or after DOS are considered late.
          ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
        Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
          Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all Records

     ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ to __-__ Team: _


     Following is an example of the report.


                             ADSN: xxxx Updates: xx-xx to xx-xx


      IPC FIDA1          SSAN          NAME      EFF DATE        PROCESSED         DAYS
      AY SBO3          699011001      SMITH       96/08/19         96/10/04          46
       EB  SN03        699011002      JONES       96/07/12         96/10/04          84
       EF  6801        699011003      HOLDE       96/05/07         96/10/04         150
       FB  6502        699011004      EDWAR       96/06/22         96/10/04         104
       FB  E503        699011005      CASSE       96/09/30         96/10/04           4

     F2 Exit to Main Menu
1544                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



4.8.8. HOW TIMELINESS RATES ARE COMPUTED


       Select option “H” (How Timeliness Rates are Computed) from the Input Timeliness Report Menu
and EARS will automatically produce a printout which provides a complete explanation of the rules,
exceptions, rational, and processes involved in determining the timeliness of transaction input.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1545


                                            Attachment 27E


                                   CHAPTER 4 DJMS REPORTS


SECTION 1.0 GENERAL


        The EARS program provides the same reports as the “DJMS Update Results” menu, but with
several enhancements. EARS maintains a 12-month history of DJMS transactions; therefore, any DJMS
report during this period can be reprinted upon request, provided reports have been backed up.


        Some reports have been reformatted and are easier to read, for example: The 80 character leave
transactions on the Unit Leave List are broken into several parts: start date, stop date, leave area, and
leave number. The type of leave (ordinary, emergency, etc.) is also shown.


       The DROT and Unit Leave List prints the unit’s name and mailing address on the top of the report
(based on information in the source code file).


        Reports are available in different sort sequences (name, SSAN, document number, source code,
etc.). All reports can be printed or displayed on screen. Reports can be generated based on data converted
from one DJMS Update or for several or all updates converted within a processing month.


1.1. REPORT MAINTENANCE


        EARS eliminates the need to file and maintain paper copies of DJMS reports. EARS maintains a
12-month transaction history file of all processed, recycled and rejected transactions, management
notices, by-others transactions and one-time pay authorizations. DJMS reports for the current and prior
11 months can be printed at any time.


       To satisfy the reports retention requirements established by DFAS:


                (1) Maintain the EARS transaction history file for current month plus the prior 6 process-
ing months. Maintaining the transaction history file for the prior 7 to 12 processing months is at the dis-
cretion of the servicing pay office higher headquarters.


              (2) The EARS program and transaction history file must be maintained on two or more
computers. This ensures files can be recovered in the event one PC is down for repair. If using EARS on
a LAN, the transaction history must be backed up on a scheduled basis to permit recovery.
1546                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



        Exception: The Document Transmittal List (DTL) must be printed and retained due to its use to
store and transmit source documents.


1.2. REPORT DISTRIBUTION TO EXTERNAL UNITS


       EARS eliminates the need to print and distribute unit DROTs and Leave Reports on a daily basis.
EARS can print reports for one update or several updates combined. Instead of sending 5 DROTs, one
each day for 5 updates, send one DROT that includes all 5 updates.


         To satisfy requirements to distribute DJMS reports:


                (1) DROTs and unit leave listings will be sent to all units at least once each processing
month.


                 (2) The servicing pay office higher headquarters will determine local needs, set a standard
office distribution policy and distribute reports accordingly. For example, distribute reports once-a-week,
or twice-a-month or once-a-month.


1.3. REPORT DISTRIBUTION TO INTERNAL SECTIONS


        EARS eliminates the need to print and distribute DJMS paper reports to other sections within the
office. Each section maintains the EARS program and can view or print reports when and if needed.


1.4. MANAGEMENT NOTICES/REJECTS AND RECYCLES


        EARS eliminates the need to suspend and distribute management notices and rejects/recycled
transaction listings to sections within the office by:


                (1) Each section maintains the EARS program and views or prints the management notice
report and the reject/recycled listings when and if needed. When the notice or listings are worked, the
technician adds a “memo” entry to the EARS transaction history file indicating action taken or pending.


                 (2) Supervisors/Team Leaders can verify the status of the notices or listings by printing a
list of cleared or uncleared transactions. The EARS transaction history file can then be viewed to deter-
mine if DJMS input was made.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1547



SECTION 2.0 SELECTING A REPORT


       To select a processing option from the Main Menu, press the letter corresponding to the processing
option or use the “up or down arrow” keys to highlight the option then press the “Enter” key.


       Following is a screen image of the Main Menu.


                          Evaluation and Analysis Reports System (EARS)


               FILE MAINTENANCE                              CUSTOMER INQUIRES
       A = GET DJMS UPDATE                            N = TRANSACTION HISTORY FILE
       B = CONVERT DJMS UPDATE                        O = GENERAL SEARCH
       C = SELECT PROCESSING MONTH                    P = STATISTICAL REPORTS
       D = FILE UTILITIES


                    DJMS REPORTS                                   PAY UTILITIES


       E = ONE-TIME PAYMENTS                          Q = TRAVEL PER DIEM SYSTEM
       F = MANAGEMENT NOTICES                         R = AC LES SYSTEM
       G = BY-OTHERS TRANSACTIONS                     S = RC LES SYSTEM
       H = REJECTED TRANSACTIONS                      T = AC NPA SYSTEM
       I = RECYCLE TRANSACTIONS                       U = UNIT CMDR FIN REPORT
       J = DROT                                       V = OFF-LINE REPORTS
       K = DOCUMENT TRANSMITTAL                       W = DFAS INPUT SYSTEM
       L = UNIT LEAVE REPORT                          Z = EXIT TO DOS
       M = VOUCHER BALANCING                          PROCESSING MONTH: ________


        After a processing option has been selected, a report menu screen will appear allowing the user to
define the report parameters and sort sequence. Processing procedures are displayed on each report
screen. Common report parameters and sort sequence are identified below; however, not all reports
require the same parameters:


        ADSN: EARS will prompt the ADSN established during installation. If this ADSN is correct,
press the “Enter” key. If not, enter the correct ADSN and press the “Enter” key.
1548                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



        Updates: Enter the beginning and ending update number. Update numbers are entered as
“10-01”, “12-09”, “02-05”, “04-17”, etc. To request one update, enter the same update number in both
entries (i.e., 08-03 to 08-03). If the update number is blank or less than 4 digits, the routine aborts. The
update numbers must agree with the current processing month. For example, to request reports for
updates 02-01 through 02-20, the processing month must be February.


        Team ID: Enter the 1, 2 or 3 digit Team ID code or leave blank. A team is a grouping of source
codes; for example, all source codes assigned to a PAC team. Leave the Team ID blank, and all source
codes are selected. Enter a Team ID, and only source codes belonging to that Team ID are selected.


        Sort Sequence: Several sort sequences are available for each report: i.e.: name, SSAN, cycle
number, document number, update, source code, and leave number. Enter the one-digit code that desig-
nates the sort sequence.


       Cycle Number: Enter the cycle number or leave blank to print all records.
       Input Source Code (ISC): Enter the source code to print records for a specific unit or input
source. Leave blank to print all transactions.


       Page: Enter “Y” for a page break after a change in a field; for example, page break for each cycle
or source code. Enter “N” to view or print the report without breaks.


        After entry of the requested data on the report menu, the EARS program goes through several
steps and the processing status is displayed on the bottom of the screen. Once EARS has formatted the
information in the sort sequence requested, the following on screen prompt will appear:


                             Output to (S)creen, (P)rinter) or (A)bort-- (_)


       Select the output to (S)creen option and the report will appear on the screen for viewing.


        Select the output to (P)rinter option to print the report. Reports can be printed using any type of
printer (ALPS, Epson, HP LaserJet, etc.) on wide or normal size (8 1/2 x 11) paper. To print on normal
size paper, set the printer to “condensed” print.


        To view all data elements on the reports, use the “page up”, “page down” or the “up or down
arrow” keys to scroll through all accounts. Use the “right arrow” key to advance screens to view addi-
tional data elements for each account.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               1549



2.1. ONE-TIME PAYMENTS


       This report identifies accounts that are due one-time payments because of special conditions.
These conditions include reenlistment bonus installments, continuation pay installments, transition pay
due, and retroactive entitlement pay. The report also reflects accounts that have an outstanding debt
(XS03 Management Notice) at time of separation.


       Select option “E” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.


                                 Option E - 1-Time Pay Authorizations


             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
            Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
             Sort: 1 = DOS & SSAN 3 = DOS & NAME
                 2 = SSAN       4 = NAME

       ADSN: ____         Updates: __-__To __-__           Sort: _


       Following is an example of the report in SSAN sort sequence.


                             Separation Pay Authorizations (UH099CA10)


           SSAN            NAME                   DOS AMOUNT FIDAI                 DTR       DATE
         699011001    SMITH JOHN S               961115 $1795.84 PQ03              11-05    96/11/01
         699011002    JONES PAULA J              961125 $1897.13 PQ03              11-05    96/11/01
         699011003    HOLDER PAUL P              961110 -$100.00 XS03              11-05    96/11/01
         699011004    EDWARDS MARY S             961105   $00.00 XS03              11-05    96/11/01
         699011005    CASSES TOM P               961116 $1307.21 PQ03              11-05    96/11/01

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


2.2. MANAGEMENT NOTICES


         This is a list of notices to identify pending actions required for certain accounts. This report iden-
tifies accounts in FORMAT-ID sequence indicating the types of actions required.
1550                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       Select option “F” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.


                                  Option F - Management Notices


            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
             FID: Enter the type of notice (i.e., XY, UC, ME, TP) or
                leave blank for all records.
            Sort: 1 = Mgt Notice & Name 3 = Mgt Notice & SSAN
                2 = Name             4 = SSAN
           Action: 1 = All 2 = Cleared 3 = Uncleared
            Page: Y = Page Break for each Management Notice

       ADSN:____      Updates: __-__ to __-__
       FID: __     Sort: _     Action: _ Page: _


       Following is an example of the report in SSAN sort sequence for all Management Notices.


       First Screen          Management Notices (UH099CA08)


            SSAN        NAME         FID             MANAGEMENT NOTICES
         699011001      SMITH        XY03     961101 TO 961101 000024500 DQ
         699011002      JONES        XY03     MBR INDEBT ADDITIONAL ENTLMENT
                                              PROCESSED
         699011003      HOLDE        XY03     961101 T0 961101 000007500 DQ
         699011104      EDWAR        XY03     MBR INDEBT ADDITIONAL ENTLMENT
                                              PROCESSED

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


        The Management Notice Report consists of three screens. Additional data elements are reflected
on the following screen images.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                              1551


       Second Screen           Management Notices (UH099CA08)


            SSAN          NAME          FID                      ACTION TAKEN
         699011001       SMITH          XY03
         699011002       JONES          XY03
         699011003       HOLDE          XY03
         699011104       EDWAR          XY03

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


       Third Screen            Management Notices (UH099CA08)


             SSAN          NAME        FID         ACTION TAKEN              DTR        DATE
          699011001       SMITH        XY03                                  11-05     96/11/01
          699011002       JONES        XY03                                  11-05     96/11/01
          699011003       HOLDE        XY03                                  11-05     96/11/01
          699011104       EDWAR        XY03                                  11-05     96/11/01

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


2.3. BY-OTHERS TRANSACTIONS


        This report provides the servicing pay office notification of transactions input on their accounts by
other activities. Transactions such as promotions input by Personnel, approved claims adjudicated by
Central Site, transactions by other paying offices, and transactions system generated by the DJMS core
database.


        It also includes transactions that were originally generated by the servicing pay office which were
rejected to Central Site for manual intervention, and then reintroduced in modified format for processing.
It includes processed recycled transactions which were input by other than the servicing pay office.


        This report informs the servicing paying office of actions taken by other activities affecting indi-
vidual accounts and is used to respond to the service members inquiries.


       Reports can be printed based on input by certain ADSNs (i.e., print only SRD payments by ADSN
5570, or TDY leave, FSA and BAS payments input by OPLOCS or Central Site). Reports can be printed
in Name, SSAN, or other ADSN sequence.
1552                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       Select option “G” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.


                                  Option G - By Others Transaction


             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Input: Enter By-Other ADSN or blank for all ADSNs
             FID: Enter FID or blank for all FIDs
             Sort: 1 = Input ADSN & SSAN 3 = Input ADSN & Name
                 2 = SSAN          4 = Name

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ To __-__ Input: ____ FID: ____ Sort: _
       Following is an example of the report in SSAN sort sequence for all FIDs.
       First Screen          Transactions Processed By Others (UH099CA11)


            SSAN          NAME         FID          BY - OTHERS TRANSACTION
         699011001       SMITH        PQ61    51001000179504961014JOHN Q SMITH
         699011002       JONES        SH03    960715    1A 9608054811     Y
         699011003       HOLDE        SB03    960725960822N0291B163524000
         699011104       EDWAR        SBO3    960812960918N03711P06311000

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


        The By-Others Transaction Report consists of two screens. Additional data elements are reflected
on the following screen image.


       Second Screen         Transactions Processed By Others (UH099CA11)


        SSAN          NAME         FID         BY-OTHER            DTR       DATE        OTHER
                                             TRANSACTION
       699011001      SMITH       PQ61                             11-05    96/11/05       0348
       699011002      JONES       SH03                             11-05    96/11-05       4805
       699011003      HOLDE       SB03                             11-05    96/11/05       4480
       699011104      EDWAR       SBO3                             11-05    96/11/05       6420

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                               1553



2.4. REJECTED TRANSACTIONS


        This report lists all transactions rejected from the update(s) and identifies by error code the reason
for the reject


       Select option “H” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.


                                    Option H - Rejected Transactions


             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all records
            Sort: 1 = Cycle & Doc #      3 = Cycle & Source Code
                2 = SSAN            4 = Name
            Page: Y = Page Break for each cycle
           Action: 1 = All 2 = Cleared 3 = Uncleared

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ To __-__
       Team: __ Sort: _          Page: _ Action: _


       Following is an example of the report in SSAN sort sequence for all FIDs.


       First Screen            Rejected Transactions (UH099CA06)


     SSAN        NAME         FID               REJECTED TRANSACTION
   699011001     SMITH       SC04 O 5064TH GSU 11 MILE ROAD SOUTHFIELD MI126400
   699011002     JONES       E203 960806001111JONES JAMES R     R33MA
   699011003     HOLDE       SC04 A HQ COMPANY USAG FITZSIMONS AURORA CO80045
   699011104     EDWAR       5101 960715   606060
   699011105     CASSE       3501 960919 200R00000000000

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


        The Rejected Transaction Report consists of three screens. Additional data elements are reflected
on the following screen images.
1554                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       Second Screen          Rejected Transactions (UH099CA06)


             SSAN          NAME          FID            ACTION TAKEN                    Errl
           699011001     SMITH          SC04     Corrected and Resubmitted              MSE
           699011002     JONES          E203     Corrected and Resubmitted              ZBD
           699011003     HOLDE          SC04     Error in Doc - Returned to IS          ZAX
           699011104     EDWAR          5101     Transaction Erroneous                  EOB

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


       Third Screen           Rejected Transactions (UH099CA06)


           SSAN         NAME FID Err1 Err2                DTR       DATE       CYCLE       SEQ
         699011001     SMITH SC04 MSE                     11-05    96/11/05     MO         0001
         699011002     JONES E203 ZBD MUX                 11-05    96/11/05     PO         0019
         699011003     HOLDE SC04 ZAX                     11-05    96/11/05     PO         0002
         699011104     EDWAR 5101 EOB                     11-05    96/11/05      T9        0008
         699011105     CASSE 3601 EDD                     11-05    95/11/05      T9        0003

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


2.5. RECYCLED TRANSACTIONS


        This report list transactions that passed ID edits but require additional input or contains a future
date. These transactions are recycling against the MMPA. DJMS core programs determine whether addi-
tional data is required from the input source and assigns a recycling code. This report is not an indicator
of information that is absolutely negative, as DJMS is programmed to recycle certain transactions until
various actions occur (some of which are locally generated and some system generated).


       Select option “I” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1555


                                  Option I - Recycled Transactions


            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all records
            Sort: 1 = Cycle & Doc #     3 = Cycle & Source Code
            Page: Y = Page Break for each cycle
           Action: 1 = All 2 = Cleared 3 = Uncleared


       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ To __-__
       Team: __ Sort: _       Action: _


       Following is an example of the report in Cycle and Document Number sequence for all FIDs.


       First Screen          Recycled Transactions (UH099CA07)


            SSAN        NAME        FID              RECYCLED TRANSACTION
         699011001     SMITH        2302    961008     12BK
         699011002     JONES        2302    961009     12BK
         699011003     HOLDE        2302    961008     12BK
         699011104     EDWAR        2302    961008     12BK
         699011105     CASSE        2302    961009     12BK

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


        The Recycled Transaction Report consists of three screens. Additional data elements are
reflected on the following screen images.
1556                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       Second Screen          Recycled Transactions (UH099CA07)


             SSAN          NAME        FID              ACTION TAKEN                      Err1
          699011001       SMITH        2302     No Action Required                        RAH
          699011002       JONES        2302     Input Made to Update Pay Record           RAH
          699011003       HOLDE        2302     Individual Notified                       RAH
          699011104       EDWAR        2302     No Action Required                        RAH
          699011105       CASSE        2302     No Action Required                        RAH

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


       Use the “right arrow” key to advance the screen to view the last of the three screens.


       Third Screen           Recycled Transactions (UH099CA07)


          SSAN     NAME FID Err1 Err2                   ISC    DTR      DATE CYCLE            SEQ
        699011001 SMITH 2302 RAH                        AB     11-05   96/11/05 37            0021
        699011002 JONES 2302 RAH                        AB     11-05   96/11/05 37            0047
        699011003 HOLDE 2302 RAH                        AB     11-05   96/11/05 37            0093
        699011104 EDWAR 2302 RAH                        AB     11-05   96/11/05 37            0111
        699011105 CASSE 2302 RAH                        AB     11-05   96/11/05 37            0166

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


        Total number of recycled transactions and the recycle code(s) with descriptions, are printed on the
last page of the report.


2.6. DAILY REGISTER OF TRANSACTIONS (DROT)


        This report provides transactions processed, rejected, and recycled by source code. The DROT is
used to provide units/activities with a record of transactions input pertaining to assigned individuals.
Reports can be requested in Name, SSAN, or Document Number sequence. Reports can be requested for
one source code, only source codes assigned to a specific team, and for several updates combined. The
input source’s name and address is printed on each report for mailing purposes.


       This report is also useful within the servicing pay office to review transactions input against the
source documents to determine if all necessary transactions were input.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1557



       Select option “J” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.


                         Option J - Daily Register Of Transactions (DROT)


            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-05)
            Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all records
             ISC: Enter unit’s input source code or leave blank
            Sort: 1 = ISC & Doc # 3 = ISC & Name Code
                2 = ISC & SSAN 4 = ISC & FID
           Records: A = All Records B = Source Code Unknown

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ To __-__ Team: _ ISC: __ Sort: _ Type: _


       Following is an example of the report in ISC and SSAN sequence.


       First Screen Daily Register Of Transactions (UH099CA04)


           ID       SSAN         NAME         FID            TRANSACTION                ISC
            Z    699011001      SMITH        FK04     9610M02                           AB
            P    699011002      JONES        LC04     961001    4807                    AB
            Z    699011003      HOLDE        3601     960904    1B9501180015210         AB
            P    699011104      EDWAR        6803     96080996083146216 10713311R       AB
            R    699011105      CASSE        AD07     96100500000 6 H056210             AB

       F2 = Exit to Main Menu
       P = Processed Z = Rejected R = Recycled Y = Partial Process


        The Daily Register of Transactions Report consists of two screens. Additional data elements are
reflected on the following screen image.
1558                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       Second Screen         Daily Register Of Transactions (UH099CA04)


       ID      SSAN     NAME        DTR      DATE Err1         Err2 CYCLE       SEQ     UNIT
        Z    699011001 SMITH        11-05   96/11/05 ZBV              P2        0007   HHC 151
        P    699011002 JONES        11-05   96/11/05                  T9        0006   CO A 151
        Z    699011003 HOLDE        11-05   96/11/05 EEX              T9        0009   CO B 151
        P    699011104 EDWAR        11-05   96/11/05                 M2         0008   CO B 151
        R    699011105 CASSE        11-05   96/11/05 DDM             PO         0008   CO C 151

       F2 = Exit to Main Menu
       P = Processed Z = Rejected R = Recycled Y = Partial Process


2.7. DOCUMENT TRANSMITTAL LISTING (DTL)


       This report is used as a transmittal listing of source documents forwarded to DFAS/Records Hold-
ing. Reports can be requested by Team or Cycle number sequence.


       The DTL is used to record all cycle numbers, update numbers and the date of the updates. The
source documents are attached to the DTL and maintained in date and cycle number sequence for 45 days
following the end of the processing month and then shipped to records holding.


       Select option “K” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.


                                 Option K - Document Transmittal


             ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
            Updates: Enter the first and last update number
             Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank for all records
             Cycle: Enter cycle number or leave blank for all cycles
             Sort: 1 = Cycle & Document Number
                 2 = Cycle & SSAN

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ To __-__ Team: __ Cycle: __ Sort: _


Following is an example of the report in Cycle and SSAN sequence.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1559


          First Screen Document Transmittal List (UH099CA03)


          ID       SSAN         NAME         FID                   TRANSACTION
          Z    699011001       SMITH        FK04    9610M02
          P    699011002       JONES        LC04    961001    4807
          Z    699011003       HOLDE        3601    960904    1B9501180015210
          P    699011104       EDWAR        6803    96080996083146216 10713311R
          Z    699011105       CASSE        AD07    96100500000 6       H056210

          F2 Exit To Main Menu
          P = Process Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Process


        The Document Transmittal List Report consists of two screens. Additional data elements are
reflected on the following screen image.


          Second Screen         Document Transmittal List (UH099CA03)


    ID       SSAN         NAME        FID    ISC    DTR       DATE       Err1 Err2 CYCLE SEQ
     Z     699011001      MITH       FKO4     2G    11-05    96/11/05    ZBV         P2  0007
     P     699011002     JONES       LC04    AB     11-05    96/11/05                T9  0006
     Z     699011003     HOLDE        3601   AG     11-05    96/11/05    EEX         T9  0009
     P     699011104     EDWAR        6803   AN     11-05    96/11/05               M2   0008
     Z     699011105     CASSE       AD07    CF     11-05    96/11/05    SBJ        PO   0008

          F2 Exit To Main Menu
          P = Process Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Process
          Total number of Documents Required and Total Transactions will be printed on the last page of the
report.


2.8. UNIT LEAVE REPORT


        This report provides a list of all leave transactions input for each source code. Reports can be
printed in Name, SSAN, or Document Number sequence. The input source’s name and address is printed
on each report for mailing purposes.


          Select option “L” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.
1560                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



                                    Option L - Unit Leave Report


           ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
          Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-10)
           Team: Enter Team ID or leave blank
          Source: Enter Input Source Code or leave blank
           Sort: 1 = ISC & Leave Number 3 = ISC & Name
               2 = ISC & SSAN

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ To __-__ Team: __ Source: __ Sort: _


       The following screen image reflects the report sorted by ISC and SSAN sequence.


       First Screen          Unit Leave Report (UH099CA04)


          ID     SSAN     NAME  FID START STOP LV NO TYPE                                ISC
           R   699011001 SMITH SBO1 960813 960819 AY60015 A                              AY
           P   699011002 JONES SB02 960823 960823 AY60018 D                              AY
           P   699011003 HOLDE SB03 960920 960924 CF60697 A                              CF
           P   699011004 EDWAR SB04 960916 960925 CF60822 A                              CF
           P   699011005 CASSE SB05 960903 960916 FB63845 A                              FB

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
       P = Process Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Process


       The Unit Leave Report consists of two screens. Additional data elements are reflected on the fol-
lowing screen image.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1561


       Second Screen         Unit Leave Report (UH099CA04)


          ID     SSAN     NAME DTR               DATE       ERR1 ERR2 CYCLE             SEQ
               699011001 SMITH 11-05            96/11/05     SBJ       M2               0020
               699011002 JONES 11-05            96/11/05               M2               0019
               699011003 HOLDE 11-05            96/11/05               M2               0011
               699011004 EDWAR 11-05            96/11/05               M2               0014
               699011005 CASSE 11-05            96/11/05               M2               0012

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
       P = Process Z = Reject R = Recycle Y = Partial Process


2.9. VOUCHER BALANCING


       This report provides a list of all payment or collection transactions in voucher number sequence
for voucher balancing purposes. The report is used to verify accounting input and identify voucher bal-
ancing errors. This report ensures that proper and timely posting of payment and collection transactions
have taken place.


       Select option “M” from the Main Menu and the following menu will appear.


                                    Option M - Voucher Balancing


            ADSN: Enter your ADSN or 9999 for all Records
           Updates: Enter update numbers (i.e., 05-01 to 05-10)
            Type: P = Payments C = Collection A = All

       ADSN: ____ Updates: __-__ To __-__ Type: _


       Following is an example of the report for all transactions in voucher number sequence.
1562                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       First Screen          Voucher Balancing Report


           ID      SSAN       NAME        FID      DATE      VOUCHER AMOUNT CAI
            Z    699011001   SMITH       PT03      961115    CPA00029   787.00 530
            Z    699011002   JONES       PQ26      961115    CPA00031   583.37 530
            P    699011003   HOLDE       PQ26      951115    CPA00031  4355.00 510
            P    699011104   EDWAR       PQ26      961115     PA000115 1900.00 530
            P    699011105   CASSE       PQ26      961115     PA000115 2076.05 530

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
       P = Processed Z = Rejected R = Recycled Y = Partial Process


        The Voucher Balancing Report consists of two screens. Additional data elements are reflected on
the following screen image.


       Second Screen         Voucher Balancing Report


          ID       SSAN        NAME        Err1     Err2       DTR          PROC DATE
           Z     699011001    SMITH        ZBD                 10-17          96/10/18
           Z     699011002    JONES        ZBF                 10-17          96/10/18
           P     699011003    HOLDE                            10-17          96/10/18
           P     699011104    EDWAR                            10-17          96/10/18
           P     699011105    CASSE                            10-17          96/10/18

                F2 Exit To Main Menu
       P = Processed Z = Rejected R = Recycled Y = Partial Process
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                           1563




                      PAGE RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
1564                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                            Attachment 27F


                                   CHAPTER 5 FILE UTILITIES


SECTION 1.0 GENERAL


        File Utility programs are required to backup and restore data files, start a new processing month,
set the drive and subdirectory where files are located, fix DJMS file conversion errors and other miscella-
neous routines.


SECTION 2.0 FILE UTILITIES MENU


       Select option “D” (File Utilities) from the Main Menu and the following menu screen will appear.
                                            D = File Utilities


           A = List DJMS Updates Converted to EARS System
           B = Setup EARS Program and Printers
           C = Assign Passwords and Access Levels
           D = Start New Month and Delete Prior Year’s Transactions
           E = Fix File Conversion Errors and Reindex Files
           F = Source Code Maintenance
           G = Copy DJMS Updates to and from Floppy Disks
           H = Update Reject Codes and Corrective Action
           I = Backup and Restore Transaction History File
           X = Return to Processing Menu


      To select a processing option, enter the letter corresponding to the option, or use the “up and
down” arrow keys to highlight the option, then press the “Enter” key.


2.1. LIST DJMS UPDATES CONVERTED TO EARS SYSTEM


       This option lists updates loaded (converted) in the EARS program to include: update number, pro-
cessing date and number of transactions.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1565


          Below is a screen image of option “A” List DJMS Updates.


                                        A - DTR Updates on File


                  DTR             PROC DATE              ADSN                 TRANS
                  10-10             96/10/09             4807                   15
                  10-09             96/10/08             4807                  438
                  10-08             96/10/07             4807                   58
                  10-07             96/10/04             4807                  140
                  10-06             96/10/03             4807                  283
                  10-05             96/10/02             4807                  170
                  10-04             96/10/01             4807                  203
                  10-03             96/09/30             4807                  630
                  10-02             96/09/27             4807                  752

2.2. SETUP EARS PROGRAM AND PRINTERS
        This processing option provides information and instructions to establish the EARS program
drives and directories and options to select printer type and paper feed for printers.


      Select option “B” (Setup EARS Program and Printers) from the File Utilities menu and the below
menu screen will appear.


             A = Set Branch, Paper Type, ADSN and Printer Type
             B = Setup Drives and Directories for LAN Network
             C = Set Laser and Dot Matrix Printer Codes


2.2.1. SET PAPER TYPE, ADSN AND PRINTER TYPE


          To setup the paper type, ADSN and printer type select option “A” and the below screen will
appear:


             Paper Type?     (C)ontinuous or (S)ingle Sheet       (_)
             Enter your ADSN: ____
             Printer Type? (L)aser or (D)ot Matrix             (_)
             Create UMIDS Report? (Y)es or (N)o                 (_)
1566                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       Enter the requested data and EARS will return to the File Utilities menu.


2.2.2. SETUP DRIVERS AND DIRECTORIES


        Select option “B” to setup Drives and Directories for LAN Network. This option identifies the
location of the EARS data files (drive and subdirectories). The file location is preset on installation. It
should not be changed unless EARS is operating on a Network (LAN system) or the EARS programs are
being installed on another drive (other than “C:” drive on the hard disk).


       The below screen will appear:


                                            Set File Location


                                  Old Drive/Subdir/File
           Transaction History: C:\RMSAFO\RMFILE\
               Work Files: C;\RMSAFO\RMFILE\
           Download Directory: C:\DTAFO\
                 Reserved:
                                New Drive/Subdir/File
           Transaction History: C:\RMSAFO\RMFILE\
               Work Files: C:\RMSAFO\RMFILE\
           Download Directory: C:\DTAFO\
                 Reserved:


        Transaction History: This is where permanent data is stored. To change this value, enter a drive
and subdirectory. Follow the above example and enter the drive, subdirectory name to include the colon
(:) and back slash (\). Leave the field blank if not making a change.


        Work File: This is where temporary data is stored. To change this value, enter a drive and subdi-
rectory. Follow the above example and enter the: drive, subdirectory name to include the colon (:) and
back slash (\) (see example above). Leave the field blank if not making a change.


        DJMS Download: This is the location of the downloaded file for the DJMS Update Results. To
change this value, enter a drive and subdirectory. Follow the above example and enter the: drive, subdi-
rectory name to include the colon (:) and back slash (\). Leave the field blank if not making a change.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1567



       Press the “Enter” key to skip any fields, or to skip to the next field. After making changes, an
EARS prompt will request confirmation of the changes. Enter (Y)es to update and save the information
or (N)o to return to the File Utilities menu.


2.2.3. SET LASER AND DOT MATRIX PRINTER CODES


       Select option “C” (Set Laser and Dot Matrix Printer Codes) and the following screen will appear.
After entry of the appropriate code, EARS will return to the File Utilities menu.


           Hewett Packard Compatible Laser Printers


           A = Condensed Print - 8 Lines per Inch (LES & NPA)
           B = Condensed Print 6 Lines per Inch (DJMS Reports)
           C = Reset Printer  12 CPI and 6 Lines per Inch


           Epson Compatible Dot Matrix Printers


           D = Condensed Print 8 Lines per Inch (LES & NPA)
           E = Condensed Print 6 Lines per inch (LES & NPA)
           F = Normal Print   12 CPI and 8 Lines per Inch

                                       Enter Printer Code (_)


2.3. ASSIGN PASSWORDS AND ACCESS LEVELS


        A password is required to access the EARS program. Separate passwords are not needed for each
user; however, separate passwords and security options for those personnel who maintain the EARS pro-
gram (adding and deleting updates, file maintenance, etc.) are required. Note: The password is case sen-
sitive. It must be entered in “UPPER CASE” letters. In other words, “Johnson” does not equal
“JOHNSON”.


       Passwords must be created for personnel with access to sensitive items, i.e., the EARS Conversion
Routine, File Utility Menu and Statistical Reports. These routines are controlled since they can (1)
destroy files, (2) show accuracy or timeliness rates for a unit or employee or (3) affect how the EARS
system operates. Password controlled options include:
1568                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        Start New Month: (Option “D” - File Utilities Menu) This option permanently deletes transac-
tions from the EARS master file.


       Statistical Reports: (Option “P” - Main Menu) Information from statistical reports could be
used for rating purpose and therefore considered sensitive information.


        Security Menu: (Option “C” - File Utilities Menu) This option adds, changes, or deletes secu-
rity records and passwords.


       Assign Source Codes: (Option “F” - File Utilities Menu) Establishing and maintaining the
Source code file is a function of the Chief of Military Pay.


       Delete Update: (Option “E” - File Utilities Menu) This option permanently deletes transactions
from the EARS master file.


        Setup Drives and Directories: (Option “B” - File Utilities Menu) This option identifies the
location (drive and subdirectory) of DJMS update files.


      Convert Update: (Option “A” - Main Menu) This option converts the DJMS update to the
EARS system.


        If using EARS for the first time, a password (JOHNSON) was added to allow access to all pro-
cessing routines. This record should be deleted after creating the security records and passwords for the
office.


       Select option “c” (Assign Passwords and Access Levels) from the File Utilities Menu and the fol-
lowing screen will appear.


                                              Security File


                 NAME                          USER ID                    OFFICE
          MARY HOPEWELL                          MP            D&P
          TOMMY BEGOOD                            TB           RECON
          CPT ALRIGHT                             TA           C,MIL PAY
          JOHN Q SMITH                            JS           FIN SVC

       F2 Exit     F3 Edit     F4 Add     F5 Delete F6 Recall
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1569



        This screen displays all password records. Use the “page up”, “page down”, or the “arrow”
keys to scroll through the records. At the bottom of the screen are five processing options: Add, Edit,
Delete or Recall records and Exit the program.


2.3.1. ADD NEW RECORD


          To give a person access to EARS, press the “F4” function key and the following screen will
appear.


                                        Security File
                         Name                           User ID                Office


             NAME:
             OFFICE:                    PASSWORD:


             _ START NEW MONTH       _ FIX CONVERSION ERROR
             _ STATISTICAL REPORTS    _ SET FILE LOCATION
             _ SECURITY MENU       _ CONVERT UPDATE
             _ ASSIGN SOURCE CODES

          F2 Exit    F3 Edit      F4 Add      F5 Delete F6 Recall


          Enter the requested information as follows:


                 User ID: Enter the person’s 2 digit source code.


                 Name: Self Explanatory.


                 Office: Enter Office Symbol.


                 Security Options: Enter "Y" to allow access or "N" to restrict access.


          After all requested data is input, EARS will return to the Security File screen.
1570                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


2.3.2. EDIT A RECORD
        To edit a person’s record, use the “page up”, “page down” or “arrow” keys to locate and high-
light the record, then press the “F3” function key. The security record appears.


                                     Security File
               Name Hopewell User ID AB              Office D&P


           NAME: MARY HOPEWELL
           OFFICE: D&P       PASSWORD: LASSIE

           Y   START NEW MONTH       Y FIX CONVERSION ERROR
           N   STATISTICAL REPORTS    Y SET FILE LOCATION
           Y   SECURITY MENU       Y CONVERT UPDATE
           N   ASSIGN SOURCE CODES

       F2 Exit     F3 Edit    F4 Add      F5 Delete F6 Recall


      Update the security record as applicable. Use the “Enter” key to skip to the next field, or the “up
arrow” key to move back to the prior field.
2.3.3. DELETE RECORD


        To delete a record, use the “page up”, “page down” or “arrow” keys to locate and highlight the
record, then press the “F5” function key. The record is now "marked" for deletion (see message in top
left corner of screen).


(RECORD DELETED)
                                     Security File
               Name Hopewell User ID AB              Office D&P


           NAME: MARY HOPEWELL
           OFFICE: D&P       PASSWORD: LASSIE

           Y START NEW MONTH       Y FIX CONVERSION ERROR
           N STATISTICAL REPORTS    Y SET FILE LOCATION
           Y SECURITY MENU       Y CONVERT UPDATE
           N_ ASSIGN SOURCE CODES

       F2 Exit     F3 Edit    F4 Add      F5 Delete F6 Recall
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1571



        To permanently delete the record, select option “D” (File Utilities) from the Main menu, then
select option “E” (Fix Conversion Errors and Reindex Files) from the File Utilities Menu. Next select
option “D” (Reindex Miscellaneous Files) from the Fix Conversion Errors and Reindex Files Menu.


2.3.4. RECALL RECORD


        This option is used to recall a record marked “RECORD DELETED" prior to permanently
deleting a record as detailed in Section 2.3.3. Use the “page up”, “page down” or “arrow” keys to
locate and highlight the record, then press the “F6” function key. The record is now "unmarked" for
deletion (see message in top left corner of screen). A record cannot be recalled once the process in Sec-
tion 2.3.3 has been completed.


2.4. START NEW MONTH AND DELETE PRIOR YEAR’S TRANSACTIONS


       Use this process to delete prior year’s transactions and start a new processing month. This is a
destructive routine and is password controlled.


         EARS maintains a 12-month history file of all DJMS transactions. To start a new month (convert-
ing the 1st update of the month), you must delete the prior year’s transactions. For example, to convert
the first update for October 1996, delete the October updates for 1995.


       Select option “D” (Start New Month and Delete Prior Year’s Files) from the File Utilities Menu
and the following screen will appear.
Processing Month: October
                              Start New DJMS Processing Month


          A = Quit                                   H = July
          B = January                                I = August
          C = February                               J = September
          D = March                                  K = October
          E = April                                  L = November
          F = May                                    M = December
          G = June                                   N = History
1572                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      Verify the processing month. If needed, use option “C” from the Main Menu to change process-
ing month.


      To start a new processing month, enter the letter corresponding to the month, or use the “up and
down” arrow keys to highlight the month, then press the “Enter” key. The following screen will appear.


Processing Month: October
                               Start New DJMS Processing Month


          A = Quit                             H = July
          B = January                          I = August
          C = February                         J = September
          D = March                            K = October
          E = April                            L = November
          F = May                              M = December
          G = June                             N = History

                                      Delete transactions for: October


       CONFIRM - Do you want to delete all records? (YES/NO) (___)
       YES - Do you really want to delete records? (YES/NO) (___)


       Confirm the deletion by entering “YES” two times. Any other entry and the routine aborts.


       IMPORTANT: Before deleting a prior year's transaction, select option “D” (File Utilities), from
the Main Menu then option “I” (Backup and Restore Transaction History File) from the File Utilities
Menu and backup the files to floppy disk.


        This option may also be used to delete DJMS transactions for a prior month if the hard drive has
no storage space. However, retain this backup disk for at least the current month plus 6 months.


2.5. FIX FILE CONVERSION ERRORS AND REINDEX FILES


       Use this option to delete duplicate records or updates, reindex the master data file and fix file con-
version errors.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1573


       Select option “E” (Fix File Conversion Errors and Reindex Files) from the File Utilities Menu
and the following screen appears.


               Option E - Fix File Conversion Errors And Reindex Files


           A = Reindex Transaction History File
           B = Delete Duplicate Transactions
           C = Reindex Miscellaneous Files
           D = Delete Update from Transaction History File
           E = Correct Processing Date for Daily Update


       Option “A” - Reindex Transaction History File: Use this option if problems are encountered
reading the transaction history file or if an "Index File Corrupted" error message is received.


       Option “B” - Delete Duplicates: Use this option if DJMS Update files were converted twice.


       Option “C” - Reindex Miscellaneous Files: Use this option when:


                (1) Problems are encountered in reading the reject code file, password file or converted
updates file or an “Index File Corrupted” error message is received.


               (2) To permanently delete a “error code”, “password record” or “source code”.


        Option “D” - Delete Update from Transaction History File: Use to delete an update and all refer-
ences to the update from all EARS files. If an update is deleted, start over and download and convert the
DJMS update again.


        Option “E” - Correct Processing Date for DJMS Update: Use this option if EARS didn’t update
the processing date when it converted the DJMS update. Follow the on screen prompts to enter the update
number and processing date (i.e., 05-15 and 96/05/15)


        Once selected, options “A”, “B”, and “C” will process to completion without any action on the
part of the user and EARS will return to the File Utilities Menu.
1574                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        For options “D” and “E” follow the on screen prompts, and EARS will return to the File Utilities
Menu.


2.6. SOURCE CODE MAINTENANCE


       Source Codes are used by EARS to identify the source of input for both production, accuracy and
timeliness reports. Source codes are assigned to each person or activity authorized to prepare and submit
pay documents, or input DJMS transactions to update pay accounts.


        Select option “F” from the File Utilities and the following menu will appear with several process-
ing options.
                              F = Source Code Maintenance


                          A = Assign Source Codes and Team IDs
                          B = Print Source Codes
                          C = Backup Source Code File to Floppy Disk
                          D = Restore Source Code File form Floppy Disk


        Definitions and Processing Logic:


               Source Codes: Unique 2-digit source codes should be assigned to each person or sections
and units authorized to code transactions for DJMS processing. The source code is used to identify who
made the input and print DROTs, Unit Leave Reports and Statistical Reports.


                Team ID: The team ID is used to group several source codes into a team. As such, statis-
tical, processing and error reports can be printed by team or unit. To group source codes into unique
teams, assign the same Team ID code to each source code. For example:


                      (1) To group source “AA”, “AB” and “AC” into 1 team, assign team ID “A” to
each source code.


                     (2) When printing DJMS or statistical reports, enter team ID “A” to print reports
for source codes “AA”, “AB” and “AC” only.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1575


                      Unit and Address: When adding the source code, EARS also requires entry of the
unit’s name, mailing address, duty phone and fax number. This information will print on the unit’s DROT
and Unit Leave Reports.


2.6.1. ASSIGN SOURCE CODE AND TEAM IDs


       Select option “A” from the Source Code Maintenance Menu and a screen will appear displaying
the source code list.


         CODE      TEAM              NAME                    PHONE             FAX
         AA        AAA        HHC 3RD TRANS BDE            317-543-3321 317-543-0001
         AB        AAA        CO B 3RD TRANS BDE           317-543-3322 317-543-0002
         AC        AAA        CO C 3RD TRANS BDE           317-543-3323 317-543-0003
         BB        BBB        JOHN SMITH                   EXT 2001
         BC        BBB        MARY HOPEWELL                EXT 2002

       F2 Exit        F3 Assign Team         F3 Edit Source Code            F4 Delete
       F5 Name Sequence F6 Add New Source Code
               F7 Team ID Sequence           F8 Source Code Sequence


       At the bottom of the screen are several processing options:
               F2 - Exit: Exit routine and return to the File Utilities Menu.


              F3 - Assign Team ID or Edit Record: To edit a record, locate and highlight the source code
using the “page up”, “page down” or “arrow” keys. Then press the F3 key.
                F4 - Delete: To delete a record, locate and highlight the source code using the “page up”,
“page down” or “arrow” keys, then press the “F4” key. The record is now "marked" for deletion (see
message in left corner of screen). To permanently delete the record, run option “D” (File Utilities), and
option “E” (Fix Conversion Errors and Reindex Files), then option “C” (Reindex Miscellaneous Files).
To recall the record, highlight the record and press the “F4” key again. A record cannot be recalled after
running option “C” (Reindex Miscellaneous Files).


               F6 - Add New Source Code: Use to add a new source code to the master file. After adding
the source code, use the “F3” - Edit option to update the unit’s name, address and phone numbers.
1576                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


               F5, F7 and F8: These keys change the sequence of the file as it is displayed on the screen
(unit’s name, source code or Team ID). After selecting one of these keys, press the “page down” key to
change the screen.


2.6.2. PRINT SOURCE CODES


       Select option “B” Print Source Codes and the following on screen prompt will appear:


                       (S)ource Code, (N)ame or (T)eam          Sequence (_)


       Select (S)ource and the Source Codes will be printed in Source Code sequence.


       Select (N)ame and the Source Codes will be printed in Name sequence.


       Select (T)eam and the Source Codes will be printed in Team sequence.


2.6.3. BACKUP SOURCE CODE FILE TO FLOPPY DISK


       This option is used to copy the source code file to a floppy disk for transfer to an EARS program
on another computer.


      Select option “C” (Backup Source Code File To Floppy Disk) from the Source Code Maintenance
Menu and the following on screen prompt will appear.


            Enter Drive Letter to Copy File to: _ (A or B)


        Enter the appropriate disk drive letter (A or B). The routine aborts if the drive letter is blank of if
a drive letter other than “A” or “B” is entered. EARS will create the Source Code file and screen prompts
will advise the user when to enter the disk.
        Insert a blank formatted disk in the applicable drive, then press any key. EARS will determine
the number of disks required to copy the file based upon the disk size and the size of the Source Code file.
Insert additional disk when prompted.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                   1577


2.6.4. RESTORE SOURCE CODE FILE FROM FLOPPY DISK


        This option is used to Restore Source Code Files from a diskette to the EARS master files on a
personal computer. These procedures assume the file has been downloaded by the EARS program to dis-
kette as described in Section 2.6.3 above


      Select option “D” (Restore Source Code File From Floppy Disk) from the Source Code Mainte-
nance Menu and the following on screen prompt will appear.


            Enter Drive Letter to Copy Source Code File From: _ (A or B)


        Insert the backup disk in the appropriate drive, select the disk drive letter (A or B) and EARS will
start copying the file to the hard drive. This routine aborts if the drive letter is blank or a drive letter other
then “A” or “B” is entered, or the backup file cannot be found on the disk.


2.7. UPDATE REJECT CODES AND CORRECTIVE ACTION


        The EARS program maintains a file of over 3,000 DJMS reject and recycle error codes. These
error codes print on the reject and recycle reports; however, some codes are hard to interpret since abbre-
viations or technical language are used to explain the reason and corrective action. To simplify error cor-
rection, you can change the definition or add additional information to the error code.


        Select option “H” (Update Reject Codes and Corrective Action) from the File Utilities Menu and
the following screen will appear.
1578                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                           H - Update Reject Codes And Corrective Action


       AAA INVALID ALLOTMENT FORMAT ID
       AAB ALLOTMENT FORMAT ID AND COMPANY CODE NOT COMPATIBLE
       AAC ALOTMT - STOP - INDICATOR IS NOT 1 OR 2
       AAD FAMILY-RELAT/CREDIT-LINE INCMPTBL/ALTMNT RCPT TYPE NOT
       1,2,3,4 OR 6
       AAE ALOTE 1ST EIGHT IS NOT VALID OR DOES NOT MATCH MMPA
       AAF ONLY ONE CLASS D ALLOT PER ACCT PERMITTED
       AAG RETURN BOND LISTING/MMPA SSAN MISMATCH
       AAH ADRS-MAIL-DOMESTIC-FOREIGN-CODE NOT EQUAL TO 1,2,3, OR 4
       AAI ALOT - RCPNT - TYPE INVALID
       CODE CONTINUES

       F2 Exit F3 Edit F4 Delete F5 Add F6 Locate
         This screen displays all error codes. Use the “page up”, “page down”, or the “arrow” keys to
scroll through the records. At the bottom of the screen are five processing options: Add, Edit, Delete or
Locate records and Exit the program.


       Processing options:


               F2 - Exit: Exit routine and return to the File Utilities Menu.


            F3 - Edit: To edit an error code, locate and highlight the source code using the “page up”,
“page down” or “arrow” keys. Then press the “F3” key to change the error code definition.


                F4 - Delete: To delete a record, locate and highlight the error code using the “page up”,
“page down” or “arrow” keys, then press the “F4” key. The record is now "marked" for deletion (see
message in left corner of screen). To permanently delete the record, run option “D” (File Utilities), and
option “E” (Fix Conversion Errors and Reindex Files), then option “C” (Reindex Miscellaneous Files).
To recall the record, highlight the record and press the “F4” key. An error code cannot be recalled after
running option “C” (Reindex Miscellaneous Files).


               F5 - Add new Error Code: Use to add a new error code to the master file. After adding the
source code, use the “F3” - Edit option to update the error definition.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                1579


             F6 - Locate: Use to locate a specific error code. Enter 1 to 3 letters of the error code.
EARS will skip to the error code that most closely matches the input. Use the “page up”, “page down”
or “arrow” keys to find the specific record.


2.8. BACKUP AND RESTORE TRANSACTION HISTORY FILE


        Using the EARS program eliminates the need to keep paper reports. However, there’s always the
possibility of computer failure and the EARS files may be destroyed. To prevent accidental loss, this
option backs up the EARS master file to floppy disks for permanent storage.


2.8.1. BACKUP TRANSACTION HISTORY FILE


        Select option “I” (Backup and Restore Transaction History File) from the File Utilities Menu and
the following menu will appear with several processing options.


            A = Backup Transaction History File to Floppy Disk
            B = Restore Transaction History File from Floppy Disk


       Select option “A” (Backup Transaction History File to Floppy Disk) and the following screen
images will appear.


            This routine backups the master EARS file for the current processing month
            to floppy disks for permanent storage. Please ensure floppy disks are
            formatted and all files deleted from the floppy disks. Insert new disks when
            prompted and the disk light goes out. Label backup disks with the processing
            month and year, and number each backup disk (for example: 1 of 3, 2 of 3 and
            3 of 3).


            Enter Backup Drive (A, B, OR Q to Quit)            (_)


        Enter the appropriate disk drive letter (A or B). The routine aborts if the drive letter is blank or if
a drive letter other than “A” or “B” is entered.


        Insert a blank formatted disk in the applicable drive, then press any key. EARS will determine
the number of disks required to copy the file based upon the disk size and the size of the History file.
Insert additional disk when prompted.
1580                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       Once the file is copied, on screen prompts will ask if other copies are to be made. If so, enter “Y”
to make additional copies or “N” to exit.


2.8.2. RESTORE TRANSACTION HISTORY FILE FROM DISK


        This option is used to copy the Transaction History File from a diskette to the EARS master files
on a personal computer. These procedures assume the file has been downloaded by the EARS program to
diskette as described in Section 2.8.1 above.


       First, verify the processing month shown on the Main Menu is correct. If not, select option ”C”
from the Main Menu and correct the processing month.


        Select option “I” (Backup and Restore Transaction History File) from the File Utilities Menu and
the following menu will appear with several processing options.


           A = Backup Transaction History File to Floppy Disk
           B = Restore Transaction History File from Floppy Disk


       Select option “B” (Restore Transaction History File from Floppy Disk) and the following screen
images will appear.


       Copy DJMS Updates from Floppy Disk
       This routine restores the EARS history file from floppy disks. Two options are
       available: (1) Restore the backup file to a WORK file for research or reports (file
       name EARS.DBF), or (2) Restore the backup file and overwrite the EARS master file
       for the same processing month. This 2nd option is used only when a current year file
       was lost or deleted. Please ensure the processing month is set to the MONTH for the
       files you want to restore. Insert backup disks when prompted.
       Enter Disk Drive of Backup Files (A, B, or Q To Quit) (_)

        Backup disks should have been numbered when the backup files were created. You do not need to
restore the disks in sequence; however, you must ensure all backup disks are used to restore files.


       Two options are available when restoring backup files:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                 1581


        Create Work File: This option copies the backup file to a temporary work file for research or
special reports. To use this file, select option “B” (Setup EARS Program and Printers) from the File Util-
ities Menu and then select option “B” (Setup Drives and Directories for LAN Network). Change the
Work File location to where the file is to be temporarily stored.


        Overwrite Current Month File: This option restores the backup file and overwrites the current
month EARS file. This option is used when the current month master file is destroyed, garbled or acci-
dentally erased.


        Insert the backup disk in the appropriate drive, select the disk drive letter (A or B) and EARS will
start coping the update(s) to the hard drive. This routine aborts if the drive letter is blank or a drive letter
other then “A” or “B” is entered, or the backup file cannot be found on the disk.


        To correct errors as a result of the transfer, select option “E” (Fix File Conversion Errors and
Reindex Files) from the File Utilities Menu and follow the instructions to either delete the update and start
over or use the option to delete duplicate transactions.
1582                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           Attachment 27G


                                    CHAPTER 6 PAY UTILITIES


SECTION 1.0 GENERAL


       Leave and Earning Statement data once downloaded is converted into a data base file from which
EARS extracts data and creates reports necessary to support units in a battlefield environment and at
remote sites. These reports and LES’s can be viewed on screen or printed for current or prior months.


       Leave and Earning Statements, Net Pay Advice and the Unit Commander’s Finance Report can be
downloaded to laptop computers to aid in answering pay inquires at remote locations or field units. Vari-
ous reports, many with several different search and sort sequences, can also be printed from the LES data
base.


       After selection of a report option from the Pay Utilities Menu, a second menu screen will appear
allowing the user to define the report parameters and sort sequence.


        Following entry of the data requested on the report menu, the EARS program goes through several
steps and the processing status is displayed on the bottom of the screen. Once EARS has formatted the
information in the sort sequence requested, the following on screen prompt will appear:


Output to (S)creen, (P)rinter) or (A)bort-- (_)


       Select the output to (S)creen option and the report will appear on the screen for viewing.


        Select the output to (P)rinter option to print reports. Reports can be printed using any type of
printer (ALPS, Epson, HP LaserJet, etc.) on wide or normal size (8 1/2 x 11) paper. To print on normal
size paper, set the printer to “condensed” print.


        To view all data elements on the reports, use the “page up”, “page down” or the “up or down
arrow” keys to scroll through all accounts. Use the “right arrow” key to advance screens to view addi-
tional data elements for each account.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1583


SECTION 2.0 TRAVEL PER DIEM SYSTEM


       The Travel Per Diem System was developed as a means to create DJMS transactions to pay travel
per diem on the member’s pay record for personnel assigned to contingency locations (i.e. Operation Joint
Endeavor). To use this option, coordinate with the central site for authorization and written procedures.


SECTION 3.0 AC LES SYSTEM


       Leave and Earning Statement data is downloaded from the DJMS mainframe computer. EARS
then converts information on the statements into a data base file. EARS provides the capability to view
an LES on screen and perform various file searches to identify inconsistencies or receipt/non-receipt of
pay entitlements.


        EARS maintains a 12-month history file of LES statements. All reports and searches are based on
the current processing month. To change the LES month, select option “L” from the LES Menu or
option “C” from the EARS Main Menu.


       Select option “R” (AC LES SYSTEM) from the Main Menu and the LES processing menu will
appear. This is the selection menu which offers the user a choice of twenty one subsystems. Once an
option has been selected, control is passed to the subsystem.


LES Month: January                           Printer: Laser


               LES Processing Menu - Active Duty        LES Type: Army


          LES INQUIRIES & SEARCHES                      LES MAINTENANCE
          A = LES INQUIRY                               L = SELECT LES MONTH
          B = EXPIRED ETS REPORT                        M = GET LES DATA FILE
          C = UNIT COMMANDER’S REPORT                   N = CONVERT LES DATA FILE
          D = SEARCHES - OVERSEAS                       O = FILE MAINTENANCE
          E = SEARCHES - BASIC                          P = DELETE LES RECORDS
          F = SEARCHES - MISCELLANEOUS                  Q = BACKUP LES FILE
          G = LEAVE BALANCE REPORT                      R = RESTORE LES FILE
          H = PRINT LES BY ORGANIZATION                 S = SETUP LES FILES
          I = ENTITLEMENT SUMMARY                       T = UPDATE LES REMARKS
          J = END OF THE MONTH PAYROLL                  U = ENTITLEMENT BUMPS
          K = END OF THE MONTH NPD                      X = RETURN TO MAIN MENU
1584                                                                     AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



      To select a processing option, enter the letter corresponding to the option, or use the “up and
down” arrow keys to highlight the option, then press the “Enter” key.


       All LES options allow the user to view the requested data on screen or print to hardcopy. Options
allow for search by individuals or for the entire LES files of a specific Unit/UIC/PACIDN.


        EARS will prompt the entry of 3 or 4 Unit/UIC/PACIDN codes for each print or search option. If
the code fields are left blank, all records are selected. If a code is entered, only those records are selected.
When entering a code, enter 1 to 8 digits. EARS will select LES records based on the number of digits
input. For example, if “N3” is entered as the first 2-digits of a code, EARS will select all records with a
code beginning with “N3”. If all 8 digits of a code are entered, EARS will select all records that match
the entry.


      Prior to using the LES Inquiries and Search options, ensure the requirements in the following LES
Maintenance options have been completed:
                (1) Option “M” Get LES Data File


                (2) Option “N” Convert LES Data File


                (3) Option “S” Setup LES Files


3.1. LES INQUIRY


       This option provides view, search or LES print capability by individual accounts for members
assigned to a specific ADSN. Six options are available to research individual accounts.


        Select option “A” (LES Inquiry) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and a list of indi-
viduals with an LES record is displayed. This list provides basic information to answer pay inquires such
as the EOM payment, leave balance, ETS and PACIDN. Processing options are displayed at the bottom
of the screen.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1585


       First Screen                 LES Inquiry


     GR      SSAN        NAME                   MONTH        BRANCH        LV BAL      EOM PAY
     E4    111111111 SMITH JOHN P             1-31 JAN 97     ARMY          37.0        1,348.69
     E7    111111112 JONES PAULA S            1-31 JAN 97     ARMY          45.0        2,039.39
     W2    111112222 GALLOWAY TIM             1-31 JAN 97     ARMY          14.0         361.23
     E4    111111113 HOLDER MARY S            1-31 JAN 97     ARMY          23.5          813.15

       F2 Exit    F3 Find SSAN      F4 View LES      F5 Print LES


        The LES Inquiry consists of two screens. Additional elements are reflected on the following
screen image.


       Second Screen                LES Inquiry


          GR       SSAN             NAME                   ETS          UNIT  OFFICE
          E4     111111111       SMITH JOHN P             980307      UA2AT6AA 8599
          E7     111111112       JONES PAULA              990928      UA2AT6AA 8599
          W2     111112222      GALLOWAY TIM A            980407      UA2AT6AA 8599
          E4     111111113      HOLDER MARY S             991031      UA2AT6AA 8599

       F2 Exit    F3 Find SSAN      F4 View LES F5 Print LES


          Processing options:


               F2 - Exit: Used to return to the LES Main Menu.


             F3 - Find SSAN: Used to locate a LES record. Enter 1 to 5 digits of the member’s SSAN.
EARS will skip to the first LES record matching this SSAN. If needed, use the “page up” or “page
down” keys to locate and highlight the members record.
              F4 - View LES: Use F3 to locate and highlight the member’s record then press F4. The
following view options are available:.


            (1) (G)eneral: Provides general information such as name, SSAN, grade, pay day, ETS,
PACIDN, leave balances and current month pay computation.
1586                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                 (2) (E)ntitlements: Provides entitlements listed on the LES and a current month pay com-
putation.


                 (3) (D)eductions: Provides deductions listed on the LES and a current month pay compu-
tation.


                 (4) (A)llotments: Provides allotments listed on the LES and a current month pay compu-
tation.


                 (5) (T)axes: Provides current month tax data and year-to-date taxes.


                 (6) (R)emarks: Lists all remarks on the LES.


                 (7) (Q)uit: Used to return to the LES Processing Menu.


          F5 - Print LES: Used to print an individual LES.


3.2. EXPIRED ETS REPORT


        This option is used to identify members due for separation or reenlistment. All members assigned
to the ADSN with an ETS date equal to or less than the system date plus 90 days will be selected. EARS
automatically enters the projected ETS.


       Select option “B” (Expired ETS Report) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and the
following screen will appear.


                                  B - Expired ETS Report - Active Duty


             Projected ETS: Enter ETS (yyyy/mm/dd format). All members with an
                      ETS less to or equal to this date will be selected.


             Page Break: Y = Page Break on Unit    N = No Page Break
              Sequence: N = Unit & Name         S = Unit & SSAN
             Projected ETS: 1997/05/04 Page Break: _ Sequence: _
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1587


       The below report reflects a search request in Unit and SSAN sequence.


                      File Search - Expired ETS - 1997/05/04


           GR       SSAN              NAME                     ETS              UNIT
           E4     111111111     SMITH JOHN P                1997/02/03        UA2AT6AA
           E7     111111112     JONES PAULA S               1997/03/21        UA2AT6AA
           W2     111112222     GALLOWAY TIM A              1997/01/05        UA2AT6AA
           E4     111111113     HOLDER MARY S               1997/05/04        UA2AT6AA

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


3.3. UNIT COMMANDER’S REPORT


         This option is used to print the Unit Commander’s Report. On screen prompts require entry of 1
to 4 different Unit/UIC/PACIDN codes. Leave the codes blank to print all reports. This report is based on
information reflected on the LES record and is not the same report provided by the DJMS system. Certain
information such as status, Article 15 data, and pay option is not provided. However, pay information
such as payment of FDP, FSA and HFP is provided.


        Select option “C” (Unit Commander’s Report) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and
the following screen will appear.


                      C - Unit Commander’s Report


            Page Break: Y = Page Break on Unit N = No Page Break
             Sequence: S = Unit & SSAN       N = Unit & Name
              PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit codes or leave blank


                     Page Break : _           Sequence: _
                       Unit 1:              Unit 3:
                       Unit 2:              Unit 4:




       The below report reflects a UCFR in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.
1588                                                             AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


First Screen         Unit Commander’s Finance Report 1-31 Jan 97


         UNIT          SSAN          NAME            GRD    EOM PAY ALLOTS BAQ TYPE
       UA2AT6AA      111111111   SMITH JOHN          E3     1,450.00       W/DEP
       UA2AT6AA      111111112   JONES PAULA         E5     1,333.33       PARTIAL
       UA2AT6AA      111111113   HOLDER MARY         E6      911.22        W/DEP
       UA2AT6AA      111111114   EDWARDS JER         E4     1,101.00       PARTIAL

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


        The Unit Commander’s Finance Report consists of three screens. Additional elements are
reflected on the following screen images.


Second Screen        Unit Commander’s Finance Report 1-31 Jan 97


     UNIT           SSAN      NAME               BAS OHA COLA             JFTR DEPS        VHA
   UA2AT6AA      111111111    SMITH JOHN         ER R N  N                     2           047
   UA2AT6AA      111111112    JONES PAULA        ER R N  N                     0           013
   UA2AT6AA      111111113    HOLDER MARY             N  N                     3           000
   UA2AT6AA      111111114    EDWARDS JER        ER R N  N                     0           509

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


Third Screen         Unit Commander’s Finance Report 1-31 Jan 97


  UNIT            SSAN           NAME          LV     ETS      TDY FSA FDP HFP IPAY
                                               BAL
  UA2AT6AA 111111111         SMITH JOHN        37     980307 N        N      N     Y      N
  UA2AT6AA 111111112         JONES MARY        45     990928 N        N      N     Y      N
  UA2AT6AA 111111113         HOLDER            14     980407 N        N      Y     Y      N
                             MARY
  UA2AT6AA 111111114         EDWARDS JER 23           991031 N        N      N     Y      N

       F2 Exit to Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1589


3.4. SEARCHES - OVERSEAS


        This option is used to search the LES file for certain pay entitlements or deductions. For example,
select all members being paid Hostile Fire Pay or members NOT being paid Hostile Fire Pay.


       Select option “D” (Searches - Overseas) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and the
following screen will appear.


                                        D = Searches - Overseas


                                       LES Pay Entitlements
               Pay Code: Enter entitlement code from the below table
                 Paid: Y = Members Paid      N = Members Not Paid
               Sequence: S = Unit & SSAN       N = Unit & Last Name
                 Unit: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit codes or leave blank

                        Pay Code: 0 Paid: Y (Y)ES / N (N)O Sequence: N

                          Unit 1:       Unit 3:
                          Unit 2:       Unit 4:

           1 = FDP            5 = FLPP        9 = SUP/PRO RATIONS
           2 = FSA            6 = FLY PAY      10 = PARACHUTE PAY
           3 = HFP            7 = DANGER PAY       11 = PER DIEM
           4 = HDIP            8 = O/S EXTN PAY


       The below report reflects a file search requesting members receiving Pay Code 1, Foreign Duty
Pay (FDP) in Unit and SSAN Sequence.
                              File Search - FDP Payment - 1 - 31 Jan 97


          GRD         SSAN             NAME     PAY ENTITLEMENT                     UNIT
          E4        111111111       SMITH JOHN     FDP    13.00                   UA7AS6AA
          E4        111111112       JONES PAULA    FDP    13.00                   UA7AS6AA
          E6        111111113       HOLDER         FDP    20.00                   UA7AS6AA
                                    MARY
          W7        111111114       EDWARDS JER    FDP    22.50                   UA7AS6AA

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
1590                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


3.5. SEARCHES - BASIC
        This option is used to search the LES file for certain pay entitlements or deductions. For example,
select all members being paid Overseas Housing Allowance or members NOT being paid Overseas Hous-
ing Allowance


       Select option “E” (Searches - Basic) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and the fol-
lowing screen will appear.


                                          E - Searches - Basic


                                       LES Pay Entitlements
                Pay Code: Enter entitlement code from the below table
                  Paid: Y = Members Paid      N = Members Not Paid
                Sequence: S = Unit & SSAN       N = Unit & Last Name
                  Unit: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit codes or leave blank

                       Pay Code: 0 Paid: Y (Y)ES / N (N)O Sequence: N

                          Unit 1:       Unit 3:
                          Unit 2:       Unit 4:

           1 = VHA        5 = BAQ-DIFF        9 = BAS-REGULAR
           2 = COLA        6 = BAQ-W/DEP        10 = BAS-RIKNA
           3 = OHA        7 = BAQ-SINGLE        11 = INTERIM VHA
           4 = CONUS COLA       8 = BAQ-PARTIAL


       The below report reflects a file search requesting members receiving Pay Code 3, Overseas Hous-
ing Allowance (OHA) in Unit and SSAN sequence.


                               File Search - OHA Payment - 1-31 Jan 97


          GRD        SSAN          NAME               PAY ENTITLEMENT              UNIT
          E4      111111111    SMITH JOHN O          OHA      902.22            UA7AS6AA
          E4      111111112    JONES PAULA M         OHA      902.22            UA7AS6AA
          O1      111111113    HOLDER PAUL B         OHA      400.74            UA7AS6AA
          02      111111114    EDWARDS DALE          OHA      628.50            UA7AS6AA

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1591


3.6. SEARCHES - MISCELLANEOUS


        This option is used to search the LES file for certain pay entitlements or deductions. For example,
select all members with Savings Bond deductions or members with no Savings Bond deductions.


        Select option “F” (Searches - Miscellaneous) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and
the following screen will appear.
                                      F - Searches - Miscellaneous


                                    LES Miscellaneous Searches
                  Pay Code: Enter deduction code from the below table
                    Paid: Y = With Deduction     N = Without Deduction
                  Sequence: S = Unit & SSAN       N = Unit & Last Name
                    Unit: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit codes or leave blank

                        Pay Code: 0 Paid: Y (Y)ES / N (N)O Sequence: N
                          Unit 1:   Unit 3:
                          Unit 2:   Unit 4:

                  1 = SAVINGS BONDS    5 = SGLI DEDUCTION
                  2 = AER ALLOTMENTS      6 = G.I. BILL
                  3 = DENTAL INSURANCE     7 = LEGAL RESIDENCE
                  4 = CFC ALLOTMENTS


       The below report reflects a file search requesting members with Bond deductions, Pay Code 1 in
Unit and SSAN sequence:


                   File Search - Savings Bonds - 1-31 Jan 97


           GRD        SSAN              NAME        PAY                              UNIT
                                                ENTITLEMENT
            E4      111111111   SMITH JOHN Q   BOND #01 50.00                     UA7AS6AA
            E4      111111112   JONES THOMAS E BOND #01 50.00                     UA7AS6AA
            W3      111111113   HOLDER PAULA S BOND #01 100.00                    UA7AS6AA
            W2      111111114   EDWARDS JOHN O BOND #01 250.00                    UA7AS6AA

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
1592                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


3.7. LEAVE BALANCE REPORT


        This option prints a current leave report for each Unit/UIC/PACIDN. The report shows leave car-
ried forward, leave earned, leave balance and the number of leave days. You’re prompted to enter 1 to 4
Unit/UIC/PACIDN codes, or leave the codes blank for all records. Reports can also be printed for mem-
bers with a “use or lose” or “negative” leave balance.


       Select option “G” (Leave Balance Report) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and the
following screen will appear.
                                      G = Leave Balance Report


               PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit codes or leave blank
             Page Break: Y = Page Break on Unit      N = No Page break
             Leave Type: L = Use or Lose         N = Negative Leave
                    F = Leave Lost EOFY         A = All Records


                   Pay Break: _          Leave Type: _
                    Unit 1:              Unit 3:
                    Unit 2:              Unit 4:


        The below report reflects a file search of members in a Use/Lose leave balance, Leave Type L.


   First Screen       Leave Balance Report- 1-31 JAN 97


       GRD SSAN           NAME                           CR     EARNED BALANCE             USE/
                                                        FWD                               LOSE
       E4    111111111    SMITH, HAROLD E                34.5       2.5         37.0        4.5
       03    111111112    JONES, PAUL J.                 68.0       2.5         70.5       38.0
       E6    111111113    HOLDENART,                     55.0       2.5         57.5       25.0
                          JEREMY

        F2 Exit to Main Menu


       The Leave Balance Report consists of two screens. Additional data elements are reflected on the
following screen image.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1593


       Second Screen          Leave Balance Report- 1-30 Sep 96


          GRD     SSAN         NAME                              ETS        ETS      PACIDN
          E4      111111111    SMITH, HAROLD E                 84.5          .0     UB7AS5AA
          03      111111112    JONES, PAUL J.                   .0           .0     UB7AS5AA
          E6      111111113    HOLDENART, JEREMY              138.0          .0     UB7AS5AA

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


3.8. PRINT LES BY ORGANIZATION


        This option is used to print LESs for the month. LESs can be printed in Unit and SSAN sequence
or Unit and last name sequence or by PSC Box for the Air Force users.


       Prior to using this option to print LESs, the user must establish the print requirements for their
branch of service. Follow the procedures in Section 2.12.8 (Setup LES Files) of this chapter.


        Select option “H” (Print LES by Organization) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and
the following screen will appear.
1594                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                             H - Print LES By Organization Or PACIDN



           Sequence: S = Unit/SSAN N = Unit/Name P = PSC Box (AF Only)
             Unit: Enter Unit Codes to print LES records for a specific unit
                 (from 1 to 4 units). Leave all unit codes blank to print all
                 LES records.
           Restart: This option is used when LES printing stops due to system
                 or hardware problems and you want to RESTART printing at a
                 specific record number. Each LES is numbered to identify the
                 last LES printed. Enter zero (0) to print all records. To
                 restart printing, enter the number of the last LES record that
                 printed.


               LES Sequence: ( )         Restart LES Record: (       )
                 Unit 1:                  Unit 3:
                 Unit 2:                  Unit 4:


        Enter the required data and the LESs will be printed. After completion of the print request, EARS
will return the user to the LES Processing Menu.


3.9. ENTITLEMENT SUMMARY


        Entitlement Summary provides two options to generate reports. Option “A” (Entitlements Sum-
mary) provides a report of the number of officer’s, warrant officer’s, and enlisted members assigned to
each PACIDN/Unit. The report also identifies various allowances and provides a breakdown of the num-
ber of individuals receiving the allowance. Option “B” (Payments Summary) provides the total dollar
amount of Entitlements, Deductions, Allotments, Net Pay, and number of individuals by grade assigned to
each PACIDN/Unit.


       Select option “I” (Entitlement Summary) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and the
following menu screen will appear.


                              A = Entitlement Summary
                              B = Payments Summary
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     1595


        Select option “A” (Entitlement Summary) from the Entitlement Summary Menu and the follow-
ing screen will appear.


                                    A - Entitlement Summary


                      Unit: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit Codes or leave blank.


                                     Unit 1:            Unit 3:
                                     Unit 2:            Unit 4:


       Following is a screen image of the Entitlement Summary Report.


              First Screen Entitlement Summary - Active Duty- As Of 1-31 Jan 97


        UNIT   OFF ENL W/O                 BAS    RIK    W BAQ WO BAQ P BAQ FDP
      UA3AS7BB  1   6   2                   3      6       5     1       3   9
      AA2A5JC0  0   3   0                   3      0       0     0       1   3
      AA9AELAA  0   1   0                   1      0       0     0       1   3

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


        The Entitlement Summary Report consists of two screen images. Additional data elements are
reflected on the following screen image.


       Second Screen Entitlement Summary - Active Duty- As Of 1-31 Jan 97


           UNIT          FSA      HFP    TDY     VHA OHA COLA            IPAY     MPAY
         UA3AS7BB         5        9      9       0   0    9               0       0
         AA2A5JC0         0        0      3       0   0    3               0       0
         AA9AELAA         0        1      1       0   0    1               0       0

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


       Select option “B” (Payments Summary) from the Entitlement Summary Menu and the following
screen will appear.
1596                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                               B - Entitlement Summary - Payments


                      Unit: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit Codes or leave blank.
                Sort: A = Grade/Unit B = Grade C = Unit


                       Sort (A, B, or C) (_)
                                      Unit 1:            Unit 3:
                                      Unit 2:            Unit 4:


       Following is a screen image of the report sorted by Grade/Unit.


                     Entitlement Summary - Active Duty - As of: 1-31 Jan 97


    UNIT          GRD ENTITLEMENTS DEDUCTIONS ALLOTMENTS NET                              NO
                                                         PAY
    UA3AS7BB      E4      6625.04     2143.14    2.00    4479.90                          3
    UA3AS7BB      E5      6800.39     1020.72  2150.00   3629.67                          2
    UA3AS7BB      E6      2686.63     1081.49   483.00   1122.14                          1
    UA3AS7BB      03      6006.85      286.86   200.00   5519.99                          1
    UA3AS7BB      W2      5343.14      188.06  300.00    4855.08                          1
    UA3AS7BB      W3      5961.35     3738.22  547.67    1675.46                          1


    TOTALS                     33423.40            8458.49         3682.67      21282.24 9

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


3.10. END OF MONTH PAYROLL


         This option produces a list of EOM PAY amounts and leave balances by Unit/UIC/PACIDN. The
list can be printed by name or by SSAN only. This allows the list of end-of-month pay amounts to be
posted on the unit’s bulletin board.


       Select option “J” (End of Month Payroll) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and the
following screen will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                   1597


                                   J - End Of The Month Payroll


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on Unit N = No Page Break
            Format: Y = Print Names          N = Don’t Print Names
           Sequence: S = Unit & SSAN          N = Unit & Name
             Unit: Enter 1 to 4 Unit/Org codes or leave blank

                  Page Break: _      Format: _      Sequence: _
                                     Unit 1:           Unit 3:
                                     Unit 2:           Unit 4:


       The following screen image reflects a list in Unit and SSAN sequence.


                              End Of The Month Payroll: 1-31 Jan 97


              GRD             SSAN          EOM PAY           LV BAL             UNIT
               E7           111331111        2,087.77          37.0            UA2AT6AA
               E5           222344444        1,222.99          70.5            UA2AT6AA
               E5           666666666          677.99          39.5            UA2AT6AA
               E4           777777777          288.87          40.5            UA2AT6AA

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


3.11. END OF MONTH NPD


      This option produces a list of all EOM NO PAY DUE accounts. It can be requested in name or
SSAN sequence by Unit/UIC/PACIDN.


       Select option “K” (End of Month NPD) from the LES Processing Menu - Active Duty, and the
following screen will appear.


                                End Of Month Payroll - No Pay Due

          Page Break: Y = Page Break on Unit    N = No Page Break
           Sequence: S = Unit & SSAN         N = Unit & Name

                                  Page Break: _        Sequence: _
1598                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



          The following screen image reflects a list in Unit and SSAN sequence.


                        End Of The Month Payroll - No Pay Due: 1-31 Jan 97


               UNIT            SSAN             NAME     GRD EOM PAY LV BAL
             UA2AT6AA        111331111       SMITH JOHN   E7   .00    37.0
             UA2AT6AA        222344444       JONES PAULA  E5   .00    70.5
             UA2AT6AA        666666666      HOLDER MARY E5     .00    39.5
             UA2AT6AA        777777777      EDWARDS JER   E4   .00    40.5

          F2 Exit To Main Menu


3.12. AC LES MAINTENANCE


        This section explains the steps/procedures necessary to maintain the Pay Utilities programs. Prior
to accessing any of the LES Inquiries and Search options, the LES Data file once downloaded from the
main frame system, must be obtained and converted to the EARS data base.


        Options to select the correct month LES, file maintenance, deletion of records and backup and
restore data to and from disks is also explained in this section.


3.12.1. SELECT LES MONTH


        EARS LES programs operate on a LES month basis. The LES month is indicated in the upper
left corner of each screen. When requesting options from the menu, only information reflected for the
LES month indicated on the screen will be provided. This option is used to select the LES month used for
reports, downloading and copying files.


          To change the LES month, selected option “L” from the menu and the following screen will
appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1599


              Month: January
                                      Select Processing Month


                   A = January                      G = July
                   B = February                     H = August
                   C = March                        I = September
                   D = April                        J = October
                   E = May                          K = November
                   F = June                         L = December
                                                    M = History


        To select an LES month, press the letter corresponding to the month or use the “up or down
arrow” keys to highlight the option then press the “Enter” key. EARS will change the LES month and
return to the LES Processing Menu.


3.12.2. GET LES DATA FILE


        After downloading the LES file using the Remote Site LES Print Program, the file must be con-
verted to the EARS program.


       Verify you are in the correct processing month (top left corner of the LES Processing Menu). If
needed, select option "C" from the EARS Main Menu or option “L” from the LES Processing Menu to
change the processing month.


        Select option “M” (Get LES Data File) from the LES Processing Menu and the following screen
will appear:


           Please enter the exact location of the LES file. For example:


                        Floppy Disk A - Enter: A:
                        Floppy Disk B - Enter: B:
                Drive C: & Subdirectory AFO - Enter: C:\AFO\
               Drive C: & Subdirectory MILPAY - Enter: C:\MILPAY|


           Location of the LES file: C:\DTAFO\
1600                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



        Enter the exact location (drive and subdirectory) of the LES file, to include the colon (:) and back
slash (\).


       Enter the requested information and the following screen displaying all files currently in the direc-
tory will appear.
                                         M - Get LES Data File
Directory
KEY85998.DAT
KEY85998.LZH
RB961108.DAT
                                               Instructions


            Up Arrow = Up 1 Item                    Down Arrow = Down 1 File
            CTRL-Home = Go 1st File                 CTRL-End = Go Last File
            PG Up = Go Previous Page                PG DN = Go Next Page
            ESC = Abort                             Enter = Select File


        Use the arrow keys to highlight the LES file, then press the “Enter” key. EARS will return the
user to the LES Processing Menu.


3.12.3. CONVERT LES FILE


        After downloading and selecting the LES File (option “M”), use this option to begin the conver-
sion process.


       Select option “N” (Convert LES Data File) from the LES Processing Menu and the following on
screen prompt will appear:
                               LES Month: October          Site ID: O


       First, verify that you are in the correct processing month (bottom right hand corner of screen). If
needed, select option “L” from the LES Processing Menu to change the processing month.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1601


        EARS will prompt you to enter the “Site ID” for the LES file being converted. The site ID will
be used to produce other statistical reports. Press the “Enter” key and the following on screen prompt
will appear:


                    Is the LES month and Site ID correct? (YES or NO) (YES)


       Once all information is confirmed, EARS will upload the LES file and begin conversion.


        If you entered drive “A” or “B” (floppy disk drives) as the location of the LES file, then EARS
assumes the LES file is on several floppy disks. As such, EARS will copy the LES file to the computer’s
hard drive and prompt you to insert the next floppy disk. You may upload as many disks as required in
any sequence. After the last disk, press the (ESC) key. This tells the EARS program that the last disk has
been copied and to complete the conversion process.


3.12.4. FILE MAINTENANCE


      Use this option to reindex the LES file in SSAN sequence. The option is required only if an
“Index File Corrupted” error message is received.


       Select option “O” (File Maintenance) from the LES Processing Menu and EARS will reindex the
LES file and return the user to the LES Processing Menu:


3.12.5. DELETE LES RECORDS


      EARS maintains a 12-month history file of LES records. As such, if you are starting a new
month (converting LES records for a new month), you must delete the prior year’s LES records. For
example, if you’re converting LES records for January 97, you must delete LES records for January 96.


      First, verify that you are using the correct LES processing month. If needed, use option “C” for
the EARS Main Menu or option “L” from the LES Processing Menu to change processing months.


       Select option “P” to delete LES records. The following screen will appear.
1602                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


              Month: October
                                         Delete LES Records


                   A = Quit
                   B = January                       H = July
                   C = February                      I = August
                   D = March                         J = September
                   E = April                         K = October
                   F = May                           L = November
                   G = June                          M = December

       To delete LES records for a month, press the letter corresponding to the month or use the “up or
down” arrow keys to highlight the option then press the “ENTER” key. EARS will show the following
on screen prompts to confirm the deletion request.


       CONFIRM - DO YOU WANT TO DELETE ALL RECORDS? (YES/NO) (YES)


       YES - DO YOU REALLY WANT TO DELETE RECORDS? (YES/NO) (YES)


3.12.6. BACKUP LES FILE


       This option is used to copy the master LES file to a floppy disk for transfer to an EARS program
on another computer or backup files for permanent storage.


        Select option “Q” (Backup LES Files) from the LES Processing Menu and the following menu
will appear with several processing options.


           This routine copies the master LES file to floppy disks for transfer to another
           computer or permanent storage. Please ensure floppy disks are formatted.
           Insert new disks when prompted. Label backup disks with the processing
           month and year. Enter up to 4 PACIDN/Unit codes or leave blank to backup
           the entire file.


              UNIT 1: ________             UNIT 3: ________
              UNIT 2: ________             UNIT 4: ________
           Enter Backup Drive (A, B, or Q to Quit) (_)

              **Insert Floppy Disk Into Disk Drive - Press Any Key**
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                                  1603



       Insert a blank formatted disk in the applicable drive, then press any key. EARS will determine
the number of disks required to copy the file based upon the disk size and the size of the update file. Insert
additional disk when prompted.


        Once the LES master file is copied, on screen prompts will ask if other copies are to be made. If
so, enter “Y” to make additional copies or “N” to exit.


3.12.7. RESTORE LES FILES


       This option is used to copy the LES master file from a diskette to the EARS master files on a per-
sonal computer. These procedures assume the LES master file has been downloaded by the EARS pro-
gram to diskette as described in Section 2.12.6 of this chapter. First, verify the processing month shown
on the Main Menu is correct. If not, select option ”L” from the LES Processing Menu and correct the
processing month.


        Select option “R” (Restore LES File) from the LES Processing Menu and the following menu
will appear.


                            RESTORE LES FILE FROM FLOPPY DISKS
            This routine restores the LES file from floppy disks. Please ensure the LES
            month is set to the month for the LES file you want to restore. Insert backup
            disks when prompted. After the last disk is restored, press the (ESC) key to
            quit.


            Enter Disk Drive Of Backup Files (A, B, OR Q to Quit) (_)


        Insert the floppy disk in the appropriate drive, select the disk drive letter (A or B) and EARS will
start coping the disk to the hard drive. This routine aborts if the drive letter is blank or a drive letter other
then “A” or “B” is entered. Insert additional disk when requested by the on screen prompts. When all
disks have been copied, press the “ESC” key to quit.


3.12.8. SETUP LES FILES


        This option allows the user to print LES’s and Net Pay Advice’s (NPA) based on branch of service.
For Army, the bottom third if the LES statement is blank. If Air Force, the LES mailing address, finance
office’s return address and the unit’s name is printed in the bottom third of the LES.
1604                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



       Leave and Earnings Statements and Net Pay Advice’s are printed in condensed mode, 80 lines per
page. To print, the EARS printer configuration must be reset. This option automatically resets the codes
(Dot Matrix or Laser) to condensed print and then returns to the original setting once the LES/NPA print
function is completed.


          Select option “S” (Setup LES Files) from the LES Processing Menu and the following menu will
appear:


                                    Setup LES/NPA File Routine
             Branch of Service? (A)rmy (N)avy, Air (F)orce               (_)


             Printer Type?      (L)aser or (D)ot Matrix     (_)


             Finance Office Return Address:


                  Line 1:
                  Line 2:
                  Line 3:
                  Line 4:


          After entry of the required data, EARS will return to the LES Processing Menu.


3.12.9. UPDATE LES REMARKS


       This option provides the servicing pay office the capability to review remarks printed on the LES
and the Net Pay Advice by DFAS. This option also enables the servicing pay office to add remarks to the
LES and NPA based on operational requirements of the command.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1605


      Select option “T” (Update LES Remarks) from the LES Processing Menu and the following
menu will appear:


                                UPDATE LES & NPA REMARKS
                          A = LES REMARKS - FINANCE OFFICE
                          B = NPA REMARKS - FINANCE OFFICE
                          C = NPA REMARKS – DFAS
                          D = NPA REMARKS – OTHER
                          E = PRINT REMARKS
                          X = RETURN TO MAIN MENU


        Option “A” LES Remarks - Finance Office, provides the servicing pay office the capability to
generate remarks to be printed on the LES of every account assigned to the ADSN. Remarks up to three
lines can be entered and will print on all LESs.


        Option “B” NPA Remarks - Finance Office, provides the servicing pay office the capability to
generate remarks to be printed on the NPA of every account assigned to the ADSN. Remarks up to five
lines can be entered and will print on all NPAs.


      Remarks generated by options “A” and “B” must be updated prior to the printing of the LES and
NPA on a monthly basis.


        Options “C” NPA Remarks - DFAS and “D” NPA Remarks - Other, enables the servicing pay
office to review remarks generated by DFAS and other agencies and edit to meet the requirements of the
command before printing.
      Option “E” Print Remarks provides print/review/edit capability prior to printing the LES and
NPAs for distribution.


3.12.10. ENTITLEMENT BUMPS


        This option provides the capability to compare data elements in the LES file and identify members
receiving more than one type allowance. Reports can be printed and forwarded to input source for recon-
ciliation or for internal office reviews.


        Select option “U” (Entitlement Bumps) from the LES Processing Menu and the following menu
will appear:
1606                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



                                        LES Pay Bumps


              BUMP Code: Enter BUMP from the below table
              Sequence: S = Unit & SSAN    N = Unit & last Name
                Unit: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN/Unit Codes or leave blank


                BUMP Code: _              Sequence: _


                 Unit 1:              Unit 3:
                 Unit 2:              Unit 4:


            1 = BAS & Barracks Cola          5 = BAS & No Cola
            2 = BAQ-DIFF & w/Dep Cola
            3 = W/DEP Cola & FSA
            4 = E7 And Above & No Bas


      The following screen image reflects a Bump of BAS & Barracks Cola requested in Unit and
SSAN sequence.


                       File Search - BAS And Barracks Cola - 1-31 Jan 97


    GRD SSAN      NAME                                PAY ENTITLEMENT              UNIT
    E4  111111111 SMITH, HAROLD E                   BAS & BARRACKS               UB7AS5AA
                                                    COLA
    03      111111112 JONES, PAUL J.                BAS & BARRACKS               UB7AS5AA
                                                    COLA
    E6      111111113 HOLDENART, JEREMY             BAS & BARRACKS               UB7AS5AA
                                                    COLA
    E4      111111114 EDWARDSWORTH,                 BAS & BARRACKS               UB7AS5AA
                      WILLIAM                       COLA

         F2 Exit To Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1607


SECTION 4.0 RC LES SYSTEM


        The RC LES System was developed to provide pay support offices in contingency locations (i.e.
Operation Joint Endeavor) with the means to create Travel Per Diem payments and print LES’s for
Reserve Component personnel. To use this option, coordinate with the central site for authorization and
written procedures.


SECTION 5.0 AC NET PAY ADVICE (NPA) SYSTEM


      EARS converts information on the mid-month Net Pay Advice (NPA) that is downloaded from the
DJMS mainframe computer into a data base file. The member’s NPA can be viewed on screen or printed.
NPAs are provided for Active Component members only.


5.1. NPA INQUIRIES MENU


       Select option “T” (AC NPA Advice) from the Main Menu and the NPA Inquiries Menu will
appear. This is the selection menu which offers the user a choice of nine subsystems. Once an option has
been selected, control is passed to the subsystem.


      To select a processing option, enter the letter corresponding to the option, or use the “up and
down” arrow keys to highlight the option, then press the “Enter” key.


                                      NPA INQUIRIES
                          A = NPA INQUIRY
                          B = PRINT NPA BY UNIT
                          C = MID-MONTH PAYROLL
                          D = UPDATE NPA REMARKS


                                     NPA MAINTENANCE
                          E = GET NPA DATA FILES
                          F = CONVERT NPA DATA FILE
                          G = FILE MAINTENANCE
                          H = DELETE NPA RECORDS
                          I = SETUP NPA FILES
                          X = RETURN TO MAIN MENU
1608                                                                    AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


5.2. NPA INQUIRY


        This option provides the capability to view the end of month NPAs of all members assigned to a
specific ADSN. This option aids in resolving pay inquiries.


          Select option “A” (NPA Inquiry) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and the following report will
appear.


    SSAN         NAME       DATE MMPAY     UNIT           BANK        ACCOUNT
  111111111      SMITH      961115 783.00 N9T99999 MARINE STATE BK     1111111
  111111112      JONES      961115 903.00 N9T99999 MERCHANTS FIRST BK  2222222
  111112222      GALLO      961115 862.00 N9T99999 HAMPTON ROADS BK    3333333
  111111113      HOLDE      961115 994.00 N9T99999 STATE CREDIT UNION  4444444

          F2 Exit   F3 Find SSAN      F4 View NPA      F5 Print NPA


          Processing options:


                 F2 - Exit: Used to return to the NPA Inquiries Menu.


                F3 - Find SSAN: Used to locate a NPA record. Enter 1 to 5 digits of the member’s SSAN.
EARS will skip to the first LES record matching this SSAN. If needed, use the “PG UP” or “PG DN”
keys to locate and highlight the members record.


             F4 - View NPA: Use F3 to locate and highlight the members record then press F4. The
NPA will appear on screen.


                 F5 - Print NPA: Used to print an individual NPA.


5.3. PRINT NPA BY UNIT


       This option provides the capability to print NPAs by UNIT/UIC/PACIDN for distribution to mem-
bers. Print requests for NPAs can include from one to four Unit/UIC/PACIDN codes.


        Select option “B” (Print NPA By Unit) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and the following screen
will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                          1609


                                            Printer: Laser


                           Print NPA By Organization or PACIDN
       SEQUENCE: S = Unit & SSAN N = Unit & Name P = PSC Box (AF Only)
         UNIT: Enter unit codes to print NPA records for a specific unit (from 1 to 4 units).
           Leave all unit codes blank to print all NPA records.
       RESTART: This option is used when NPA printing stops due to system or hardware
            problems and you want to restart printing at a specific record number. Each NPA
             is numbered to identify the last NPA printed. Enter zero (0) to print all records.
             To restart printing, enter the number of the last NPA record that printed.


         NPA Sequence: (-)              Restart NPA Record: (_)
             UNIT 1:                 UNIT 3:
             UNIT 2:                 UNIT 4:

       After entry of the required data, the NPAs will be printed in the sort sequence requested.


5.4. MID-MONTH PAYROLL


        This option provides the capability to view and print individually the mid-month pay of all mem-
bers assigned to a specific Unit/UIC/PACIDN or the ADSN. This option can also be used to print a
Mid-Month pay listing with or without members names for posting on a unit bulletin board. This option
aids in resolving pay inquiries.


       Select option “C” (Mid-Month Payroll) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and the following menu
screen will appear.


                                     Mid-Month Payroll
           Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN        N = No Page Break
             Format: Y = Print Names           N = Don’t Print Names
            Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN             N = PACIDN & Name
             PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                 Page Break: _      Format: _ Sequence: _
                  PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                  PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:
1610                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


       The following screen reflects a pay listing in SSAN and PACIDN sequence.


                                        Mid-Month Payroll


    SSAN    NAME DATE MM PAY                 UNIT               BANK                 ACCOUNT
  111111111 SMITH 961115 230.00             N9T99999    MARINE STATE BK              1111111
  111111112 JONES 961115 185.00             N9T99999    MERCHANTS FIRST BK           2222222
  111112222 GALLO 961115 364.00             N9T99999    HAMPTON ROADS BK             3333333
  111111113 HOLDE 961115 480.00             N9T99999    STATE CREDIT UNION           4444444

F2 Exit F3 Find SSAN F4 View NPA F5 Print NPA


       Processing options:


              F2 - Exit: Used to return to the NPA Inquiries Menu.


             F3 - Find SSAN: Used to locate a NPA record. Enter 1 to 5 digits of the member’s SSAN.
EARS will skip to the first NPA record matching this SSAN. If needed, use the “page up” or “page
down” keys to locate and highlight the members record.


             F4 - View NPA: Use F3 to locate and highlight the members record then press F4. The
NPA will appear on screen.
              F5 - Print NPA: Used to print an individual NPA.


       Use the “page up, “page down” or the “up or down arrow” keys to scroll through all accounts.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                             1611


5.5. UPDATE NPA REMARKS


         This option allows for the entry and broadcast of a remark on each member’s NPA assigned to the
ADSN.
        Select option “D” (Update NPA Remarks) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and the following menu
will appear:


                                   Update LES & NPA Remarks
                           A = LES Remarks - Finance Office
                           B = NPA Remarks - Finance Office
                           C = NPA Remarks – DFAS
                           D = NPA Remarks - Other
                           E = Print Remarks
                           X = Return To Main Menu


        Option “B” NPA Remarks - Finance Office, provides the servicing pay office the capability to
generate remarks to be printed on the NPA of every account assigned to the ADSN. Remarks up to five
lines can be entered and will print on all LESs.


         Remarks generated by options “A” must be updated prior to the printing of the NPA on a monthly
basis.


5.6. NPA MAINTENANCE


        This section explains the steps/procedures necessary to maintain the NPA Inquiries programs.
Prior to accessing any of the NPA Inquiry options, the NPA Data file once downloaded from the main
frame system, must be obtained and converted to the EARS data base.


        Options to select the correct NPA file, file maintenance, deletion of records and backup and
restore data to and from disks is also explained in this section.


5.6.1. GET NPA DATA FILE


         After downloading the NPA file, the data must be converted to the EARS program.
1612                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


      First verify the correct processing month. If needed, select option "C" from the EARS Main
Menu or option “L” from the LES Processing Menu to change the processing month.


        Select option “E” (Get NPA Data File) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and the following screen
will appear:


            Please enter the exact location of the NPA file. For example:


                         Floppy Disk A - Enter: A:
                         Floppy Disk B - Enter: B:
                 Drive C: & Subdirectory AFO - Enter: C:\AFO\
                Drive C: & Subdirectory MILPAY - Enter: C:\MILPAY|


            Location of the LES file: C:\DTAFO\


        Enter the exact location (drive and subdirectory) of the NPA file, to include the colon (:) and back
slash (\).


        Enter the requested information and the following screen displaying the directory and all files cur-
rently in the directory will appear.
                                          F - Get NPA Data File
Directory
KEY85998.DAT
KEY85998.LZH
RB961108.DAT
                                               Instructions


            Up Arrow = Up 1 Item                    Down Arrow = Down 1 File
            CTRL-Home = Go 1st File                 CTRL-End = Go Last File
            PG Up = Go Previous Page                PG DN = Go Next Page
            ESC = Abort                             Enter = Select File


        Use the arrow keys to highlight the NPA file, then press the “Enter” key. EARS will return the
user to the NPA Inquiries Menu.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1613


5.6.2. CONVERT NPA DATA FILE


        After downloading and selecting the NPA File (option “E”), use this option to begin the conver-
sion process.


       Select option “F” (Convert NPA Data File) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and the following on
screen prompt will appear:


NPA Month: January         Site ID: O
      First, verify that you are in the correct processing month. If needed, select option “L” from the
LES Processing Menu to change the processing month.


        EARS will prompt you to enter the “Site ID” for the NPA file being converted. The site ID will
be used to produce other statistical reports. Press the “Enter” key and the following on screen prompt
will appear:


                    Is the NPA month and Site ID correct? (YES or NO) (YES)
       Once all information is confirmed, EARS will upload the NPA file and begin conversion.
        If you entered drive A: or B: (floppy disk drives) as the location of the NPA file, then EARS
assumes the NPA file is on several floppy disks. As such, EARS will copy the NPA file to the computer’s
hard drive and prompt you to insert the next floppy disk. You may upload as many disks as required in
any sequence. After the last disk, press the (ESC) key. This tells the EARS program that the last disk has
been copied and to complete the conversion process.


5.6.3. FILE MAINTENANCE


       Use this option to reindex the NPA file in SSAN sequence. The option is required only if you
receive an “Index File Corrupted” error message.


       Select option “G” (File Maintenance) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and EARS will reindex the
NPA file and return user to the NPA Inquiries Menu:


5.6.4. DELETE NPA RECORDS
1614                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        EARS maintains a one month file of NPA records. As such, if you are starting a new month
(converting NPA records for a new month), you must delete the prior months NPA records. For example,
if you’re converting NPA records for January 97, you must delete NPA records for December 96.


      First, verify that you are using the correct NPA processing month. If needed, use option “C” for
the EARS Main Menu or option “L” from the LES Processing Menu to change processing months.


       Select option “H” (Delete NPA Records) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and EARS will show the
following on screen prompts to confirm the deletion request.


        CONFIRM - DO YOU WANT TO DELETE ALL RECORDS? (YES/NO) (YES)


         YES - DO YOU REALLY WANT TO DELETE RECORDS? (YES/NO) (YES)


       The NPA’s for the month indicated will be deleted and the user will be returned to the NPA Inquir-
ies Menu.


5.6.5. SETUP NPA FILES


        This option allows the user to print Net Pay Advice’s (NPA) based on branch of service. For
Army, the bottom third if the LES statement is blank. If Air Force, the LES mailing address, finance
office return address and the unit’s name is printed in the bottom third of the LES


       Net Pay Advice’s are printed in condensed mode, 80 lines per page. To print, the EARS printer
configuration must be reset. This option automatically resets the codes (Dot Matrix or Laser) to con-
densed print and then returns to the original setting once the NPA print function is completed.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1615


          Select option “I” (Setup NPA Files) from the NPA Inquiries Menu and the following menu will
appear:


                                       Setup LES/NPA File Routine


             Branch of Service? (A)rmy        (N)avy,     Air (F)orce     (_)


             Printer Type?      (L)aser or (D)ot Matrix      (_)


             Finance Office Return Address:


                  Line 1:
                  Line 2:
                  Line 3:
                  Line 4:


          After entry of the required data, EARS will return to the NPA Inquiries Menu.


SECTION 6.0 UNIT COMMANDER’S FINANCIAL REPORT (UCFR)


        Leave and Earning Statement data is downloaded from the DJMS mainframe computer. EARS
then converts information on the statements into a data base file and creates the UCFR. EARS provides
the capability to view the UCFR on screen and perform various file searches to identify inconsistencies or
receipt/non-receipt of pay entitlements as well as printing for distribution.


        The Unit Commander’s Finance Report can be downloaded to laptop computers to aid in answer-
ing pay inquires at remote locations or field units. Various reports, many with several different search and
sort sequences, can also be printed from the UCFR data base.


6.1. UCFR MENU


        Select option “U” (Unit CMDR Fin Report) from the Main Menu and the UCFR Inquiries Menu
will appear. This is the selection menu which offers the user a choice of eighteen subsystems. Once an
option has been selected, control is passed to the subsystem.
1616                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                              U = Unit Commander’s Financial Report


                   UCFR INQUIRIES                          UCFR MAINTENANCE
          A = UCFR INQUIRY                          L = GET UCFR DATA FILE
          B = EXPIRED ETS REPORT                    M = CONVERT UCFR DATA FILE
          C = VIP REPORT                            N = FILE MAINTENANCE
          D = LEAVE BALANCE REPORT                  O = DELETE UCFR RECORDS
          E = OPEN DEBT REPORT
          F = NON-DUTY STATUS                       P = HOUSING RECONCILIATION
          G = NO PAY DUE REPORT                     Q = SIDPERS RECONCILIATION
          H = BAS & BAQ REPORTS                     R = UCFR & LES MISMATCHES
          I = COLA & OHA REPORTS
          J = EFT STATISTICS                        X = RETURN TO MAIN MENU
          K = PRINT UCFR BY PACIDN


      To select a processing option, enter the letter corresponding to the option, or use the “up and
down” arrow keys to highlight the option, then press the “Enter” key.


6.1.1. UCFR INQUIRY


        This option provides view and search capability by individual accounts for members assigned to a
specific ADSN. Three options are available to research individual accounts.


      Select option “A” (UCFR Inquiry) from the UCFR Menu and a list of members assigned to the
ADSN will be displayed. This list provides basic information to answer pay inquires such as the EOM
payment, leave balance, ETS and PACIDN.


       First Screen           U = Unit Commander’s Financial Report


         SSAN       NAME            GRD         DATE       EOM PAY        ALLMTS       PAYOPT
       111111111 SMITH JOH          E3       31 DEC 96     1450.00                     CHEK
       111111112 JONES PAU          E5       31 DEC 96     1333.33        333.33       CHEK
       111111113 HOLDER MA          E6       31 DEC 96     1211.22        211.22       SAVE

       F2 Exit F3 Locate F4 SSAN Sequence F5 Name Sequence
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                      1617


       The UCFR consists of three screen images. Use the “right arrow” key to advance screens to
view additional data elements for an account.


       Second Screen          U = Unit Commander’s Financial Report


      SSAN          NAME           BAQ       BAS      VHA      OHA      COLA    IPAY   LV BAL
    111111111    SMITH JOH         W/D       RNA       V                                30.0
    111111112    JONES PAU         OTR       YES       V                        YES     23.5
    111111113    HOLDER MA         W/O       YES       V                                15.5
    111111114    EDWARDS T         W/D       RNA       V                                46.5

       F2 Exit F3 Locate F4 SSAN Sequence F5 Name Sequence


       Third Screen           U = Unit Commander’s Financial Report


        SSAN             NAME             ART 15      DUE US         ETS     STATUS    PACIDN
      111111111       SMITH JOH                       2138.00       980307
      111111112        JONES PAU                                    990928
      111111113       HOLDER MA                                     980407
      111111114       EDWARDS T                                     991031

       F2 Exit F3 Locate F4 SSAN Sequence F5 Name Sequence


          Processing options:


              F2 - Exit: Used to return to the UCFR Menu.


                F3 - Find SSAN: Used to locate a record. Enter 1 to 5 digits of the member’s SSAN.
EARS will skip to the first record matching this SSAN. If needed, use the “page up” or “page down”
keys to locate and highlight the members record.


              F4 - SSAN Sequence: Sort members by SSAN.


              F5 - Name Sequence: Sort members by Name.


       Select the output to (P)rinter option to print the report.
1618                                                                  AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



6.1.2. EXPIRED ETS REPORT


        This option is used to identify members due for separation or reenlistment. All members assigned
to the ADSN with an ETS date equal to or less than the system date plus 90 days will be selected. The
report also identifies individuals with an expired ETS date. This report enables the servicing pay office to
project and monitor future separations or reenlistments.


          Select option “B” (Expired ETS Report) from the UCFR Menu, and the following screen will
appear.
                                        B - Expired ETS Report


               Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN      N = No Page Break
                Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN           N = PACIDN & Name
                 PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records
                    Page Break: _        Sequence: _
                     PACIDN 1:           PACIDN 3:
                     PACIDN 2:           PACIDN 4:


       The following screen image reflects an Expired ETS Report requested in PACIDN and SSAN
sequence.


          First Screen         Expired ETS Report: 31 Jan 97


           GR    NAME               SSAN          ETS        STATUS        DEBTS        LV BAL
           E4 SMITH JOH           111111111     97/02/07                                  7.0-
           E7 JONES PAU           111111112     96/12/11       SUSP        1672.00       25.0
           W2 GALLOWAY            111111113     97/01/22       SUSP         983.13       33.0

          F2 Exit to Main Menu


        The Expired ETS Report consists of two screen images. Additional data elements are reflected on
the following screen image.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                         1619


       Second Screen                 Expired ETS Report: 31 Jan 97


         GR   NAME       SSAN                 EOM PAY ALMTS             ART 15     PACIDN
         E4 SMITH JOH 111111111              1335.62  135.00                      AA13SHAA
         E7 JONES PAU 111111112                                                   AA13SHAA
         W2 GALLOWAY 111111113                                                    AA73BLII

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


6.1.3. VIP REPORT


       This option provides view or print capability based on members grade. For example, print a
UCFR report for all enlisted E-9’s including all data elements in the UCFR for members assigned to a spe-
cific ADSN. A legend is printed at the end of the report to describe all data elements.


       Select option “C” (VIP Report) from the UCFR Menu, and the following screen will appear.


                                              VIP Report


           Enter the lowest grade for each Category (officer, enlisted or warrant officer).
           For example, to select all Colonels through General, enter 06 for the officer
           category, and leave the warrant officer and enlisted grade fields blank. To
           select all Sergeant Majors, Chief Master Sergeants or Master Chiefs, enter E9
           for the enlisted category, and leave the officer and warrant officer field blank.
           Leave all grades blank to abort and return to the main menu.
                                           Valid Grades Are:
           Officer:       01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09
           Enlisted:      E1 E2 E3 E4 E5 E6 E7 E8 E9
           Warrant:        W1 W2 W3 W4 W5

       Officer: __ Enlisted: __ Warrant: __


       Following is a VIP Report for Enlisted Grade E-9:
1620                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                       Unit Commander’s Financial Report - VIP Report 31 Jan 97


       GR       SSAN          NAME         EOM      PAY     ALMNTS DEBTS             LV     BAQ
                                                                                    BAL
                                      PAY           OPT
    E9       111111111    JOHNSON J 3596.49        CHEK 648.82                     59.0    W/D
    E9       111111112    STEPHAN J 3221.41        CHEK 354.68                     38.5    W/D
    E9       111111113    BURGESS S 3014.15        CHEK                            45.0    W/D
    E9       111111114    CUNNINGHA 3613.99        CHEK 590.47                     60.0    W/D

          F2 Exit to Main Menu


       The UCFR VIP Report consists of two screens. Additional data elements are reflected on the fol-
lowing screen image.


                       Unit Commander’s Financial Report - VIP Report 31 Jan 97


  GR         SSAN         NAME   VHA          OHA BAS        COLA     IPAY ART 15          PACIDN
  E9       111111111   JOHNSON J   V              RNA                                     UA3AS7BB
  E9       111111112   STEPHAN J   V              RNA                  YES                UA3AS7BB
  E9       111111113   BURGESS S   V              RNA                                     UA3AS7BB
  E9       111111114   CUNNINGHA   V              RNA                                     UA3AS7BB

          F2 Exit to Main Menu


6.1.4. LEAVE BALANCE REPORT


        This option provides on screen view or prints a current leave balance report by PACIDN. Reports
can also be printed for members with a “use or lose” leave balance or “negative” leave balance.


          Select option “D” (Leave Balance Report) from the UCFR Menu, and the following screen will
appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1621


                                           Leave Balance Report


                 PACIDN: Enter 1 to 3 PACIDN codes or blank
               Page Break: Enter “Y” for a separate page for each PACIDN
               Leave Type: L = Use/Lose N = Negative A = All Records
                    Page Break: _          Leave Type: _
                    PACIDN 1:     PACIDN 2:       PACIDN 3:


          Below is a screen image of a report reflecting individuals with a negative leave balance:


                                     Leave Balance Report - 31 Jan 97


             GRADE            SSAN           NAME             LV BAL            PACIDN
               E1           111111111      SMITH JOH           41.5            UB7AS5AA
               E7           111111112      JONES PAU            7.0            UB7AS5AA
               03           111111113      GALLOWAY            12.5            UB7AS5AA
               06           111111114      EDWARDS T           22.5            UB7AS5AA

          F2 Exit to Main Menu


6.1.5. OPEN DEBT REPORT


        This option provides a UCFR report for all members with open debt balances. The report includes
all data elements in the UCFR for members assigned to a specific PACIDN or the ADSN. A legend is
printed at the end of the report to describe all data elements.


          Select option “E” (Open Debt Report) from the UCFR Menu, and the following screen will
appear.
1622                                                              AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                         Open Debt Report


         Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN       N = No Page Break
          Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN            N = PACIDN & NAME
           PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                       Page Break: _                              Sequence: _
                        PACIDN 1:                                 PACIDN 3
                        PACIDN 2:                                 PACIDN 4


       Following is a screen image of a report requested in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.


       First Screen          Open Debt Report


             SSAN         NAME             DEBTS           ETS         STATUS      LV BAL
           111111111    AMOS RAND          1672.33      12 AUG 97                  41.5-
           111111112    BAKER BRA          5728.93      28 SEP 99       SUSP       19.5
           111111113    GAY DARRE          7890.79      23 OCT 97       SUSP        7.0-
           111111114    DAVENPORT                       12 FEB 97       CONF       20.0

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


        The Open Debt Report consists of two screen images. Additional data elements are reflected on
the following screen image.


       Second Screen         Open Debt Report


             SSAN       NAME              EOM PAY       ALMTS       ART 15       PACIDN
           111111111 AMOS RAND             975.90        378.43                 15SOQ5H3
           111111112 BAKER BRA                                                  AA13SHAB
           111111113 GAY DARRE                                                  AA21EX45
           111111114 DAVENPORT                                                  AB57XZGA
           111111115 SMITH JOH                                                  ABCDE76L

       F2 Exit to Main Menu
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                        1623


6.1.6. NON-DUTY STATUS


        This option provides a UCFR report for all members in a non-duty status (AWOL, Confinement,
Deserter, or Suspended Pay). The report includes all data elements in the UCFR for members assigned to
a specific PACIDN or ADSN. A legend is printed at the end of the report to describe all data elements.
       Select option “F” (Non-Duty Status) from the UCFR Menu, and the following screen will appear.


                                         Duty Status Report


         Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN    N = No Page Break
           Status: 1 = Field Duty 3 = Suspended 5 = AWOL
                2 = Confinement 4 = Deserter   6 = All Status
          Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN              N = PACIDN & Name
         PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


             Page Break: _          Status: _               Sequence: _
                                   PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                                   PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:


       Following is a screen image of a report reflecting All Status and in PACIDN and SSAN sequence


       First Screen            Duty Status Report: 31 Jan 97


        GRADE      SSAN         NAME            STATUS EOM PAY ALMNTS DEBTS
        E1         111111111    AMOS RAND       SUSP                  1672.33
        E7         111111112    BAKER BRA       SUSP                  5728.93
        03         111111113    GAY DARRE       SUSP                  7890.79
        E6         111111114    DAVENPORT       CONF
        E5         111111115    SMITH JOH       AWOL

       F2 Exit to Main Menu


        The Duty Status Report consists of two screen images. Additional data elements are reflected on
the following screen image.
1624                                                               AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


          Second Screen                Duty Status Report


           GRADE          SSAN           NAME    ART 15           ETS          PACIDN
             E1         111111111      AMOS RAND               12 AUG 97      15SOQ5H3
             E7         111111112      BAKER BRA               28 SEP 99      AA13SHAB
             03         111111113      GAY DARRE               23 OCT 97      AA21EX45
             E6         111111114      DAVENPORT               12 FEB 97      AB57XZGA
             E5         111111115      SMITH JOH               18 AUG 98      ABCDE76L

          F2 Exit to Main Menu


6.1.7. NO PAY DUE REPORT


     This option produces a list of all End of Month NO PAY DUE accounts. It can be requested in
PACIDN and SSAN or PACIDN and name sequence.


          Select option “G” (No Pay Due Report) from the UCFR Menu and the following screen will
appear.


                                    End Of Month Payroll - No Pay Due



             PAGE BREAK: Y = PAGE BREAK ON PACIDN N= NO PAGE BREAK
              SEQUENCE: S = PACIDN & SSAN     N = PACIDN & NAME
               PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                    Page Break: _            Sequence: _
                     PACIDN 1:               PACIDN 3:
                     PACIDN 2:               PACIDN 4:


          Following is a screen image of a report reflecting PACIDN and SSAN sequence.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1625


       First Screen           No Pay Due Report: 31 Jan 97


            SSAN          NAME    EOM PAY                    ETS         STATUS      DEBTS
          111111111     AMOS RAND                         12 AUG 97      SUSP        1672.33
          111111112     BAKER BRA                         28 SEP 99      SUSP        5728.93
          111111113     GAY DARRE                         23 OCT 97      SUSP        7890.79
          111111114     DAVENPORT                         12 FEB 97      CONF
          111111115     SMITH JOH                         18 AUG 98      AWOL

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


        The No Pay Due Report consists of two screen images. Additional data elements are reflected on
the following screen image.


       Second Screen          No Pay Due Report: 31 Jan 97


              SSAN         NAME             LV BAL      ALMNTS        ART 15       PACIDN
            111111111    AMOS RAND        41.5-                                  15SOQ5H3
            111111112    BAKER BRA        19.5                                   AA13SHAB
            111111113    GAY DARRE         7.0-                                  AA21EX45
            111111114    DAVENPORT        20.0                                   AB57XZGA
            111111115    SMITH JOH        30.0-                                  ABCDE76L

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


6.1.8. BAS AND BAQ REPORTS


        This option provides the capability to compare data elements in the UCFR file and identify the fol-
lowing discrepancies in members accounts. Reports can be printed and forwarded to input source for rec-
onciliation or for internal office reviews.


               (1) Paid W/Dep BAQ or S/R BAQ with no BAS


               (2) Paid W/Dep BAQ or S/R BAQ with no VHA


               (3) Grade E-6 or below, paid BAQ Rebate and BAS
1626                                                                AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007



               (4) Grade E-6 or below, paid BAQ-Diff and BAS


               (5) Grade E-7 or above and no BAS
        Select option “H” (BAS & BAQ Reports) from the UCFR Menu and the following menu screen
will appear.


                             A = BAQ PAYMENTS
                             B = BAQ or Govt Qtrs and No BAS
                             C = W/Dep or W/O BAQ and No VHA
                             D = E-6 and Below with BAQ Rebate and
                             BAS
                             E = E-6 and Below with BAQ Diff and BAS
                             F = E-7 and Above and No BAS
                             G = BAS Payments
                             H = VHA Payments


      To select a processing option, enter the letter corresponding to the option, or use the “up and
down” arrow keys to highlight the option, then press the “Enter” key.


       All reports can be viewed on screen or printed. Use the “page up, “page down” or the “up or
down arrow” keys to scroll through all accounts. Use the “right arrow” key to advance screens to view
additional data elements for each member’s account.


6.1.8.1. BAQ PAYMENTS


       Select option “A” (BAQ Payments) from the BAS and BAQ Reports Menu and the following
screen will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                     1627


                                          BAQ Report


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN        N = No Page Break
           BAQ Type: 1 = W/Dep      3 = Rebate    5 = Govt Qtrs
                 2 = W/O Dep 4 = BAQ Diff 6 = No BAQ
           Sequence: N = PACIDN & name        S = PACIDN & SSAN
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                Page Break: _    BAQ Type: _ Sequence: _
                  PACIDN 1:             PACIDN 3:
                  PACIDN 2:             PACIDN 4:


      Following is a screen image of a report reflecting BAQ Type 1, W/Dep in SSAN sequence.


                                    BAQ Report: 31 Jan 97


         GRADE         SSAN         NAME             BAQ          BAS       PACIDN
           E1        111111111    AMOS RAND          W/D          SR       15SOQ5H3
           O3        111111112    BAKER BRA          W/D                   AA13SHAB
           E7        111111113    GAY DARRE          W/D         RNA       AA21EX45
           E5        111111114    DAVENPORT          W/D         RNA       AB57XZGA
           E6        111111115    SMITH JOH          W/D         RNA       ABCDE76L

      F2 Exit To Main Menu


6.1.8. 2 BAQ OR GOVT QTRS AND NO BAS


        Select option “B” (BAQ or Govt Qtrs and No BAS) from the BAS and BAQ Reports Menu and
the following screen will appear.
1628                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                       W/Dep BAQ Or Government Quarters And No BAS


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN      N = No Page Break
           Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN           N = PACIDN & Name
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records

                 Page Break: _              Sequence: _
                   PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                   PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:


       Following is a screen image reflecting the report in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.


                     W/DEP BAQ OR Government Quarters And No BAS: 31 JAN 97


           GRADE        SSAN        NAME             BAQ         BAS       PACIDN
             E1       111111111   AMOS RAND          W/D                  15SOQ5H3
             E3       111111112   BAKER BRA          W/D                  AA13SHAB
             E7       111111113   GAY DARRE          W/D                  AA21EX45
             E5       111111114   DAVENPORT          W/D                  AB57XZGA

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


6.1.8. 3 W/DEP OR W/O BAQ AND NO VHA


       Select option “C” (W/Dep or W/O BAQ and No VHA) from the BAS and BAQ Reports Menu
and the following screen will appear.


                      W/DEP BAQ Or Government Quarters And No BAS:


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN      N = No Page Break
           Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN           N = PACIDN & Name
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records

                 Page Break: _              Sequence: _
                   PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                   PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                              1629


      Following is a screen image reflecting the report in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.
                W/DEP BAQ Or Government Quarters And No BAS: 31 Jan 97


        GRADE         SSAN          NAME             BAQ          VHA        PACIDN
          E1        111111111     AMOS RAND          W/D                    15SOQ5H3
          E3        111111112     BAKER BRA          W/D                    AA13SHAB
          E7        111111113     GAY DARRE          W/D                    AA21EX45
          E5        111111114     DAVENPORT          W/D                    AB57XZGA
          E6        111111115     SMITH JOH          W/D                    ABCDE76L

      F2 Exit To Main Menu
6.1.8. 4 E-6 AND BELOW WITH BAQ REBATE AND BAS


      Select option “D” (E-6 and Below with BAQ Rebate and BAS) from the BAS and BAQ Reports
Menu and the following screen will appear.


                          E-6 And Below With BAQ Rebate And BAS


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN      N = No Page Break
           Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN           N = PACIDN & Name
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records

                Page Break: _              Sequence: _
                  PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                  PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:


      Following is a screen image reflecting the report in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.

                    E-6 And Below With BAQ Rebate And BAS: 31 Jan 97


         GRADE         SSAN          NAME             BAQ         BAS       PACIDN
           E1        111111111     AMOS RAND          REB          SR      15SOQ5H3
           E3        111111112     BAKER BRA          REB         RNA      AA13SHAB
           E6        111111113     GAY DARRE          REB         RNA      AA21EX45
           E5        111111114     DAVENPORT          REB         RNA      AB57XZGA
           E6        111111115     SMITH JOH          REB          SR      ABCDE76L

      F2 Exit To Main Menu
1630                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


6.1.8.5. E-6 AND BELOW WITH BAQ DIFF AND BAS


      Select option “E” (E-6 and Below with BAQ Diff and BAS) from the BAS and BAQ Reports
Menu and the following screen will appear.


                            E-6 And Below With BAQ Diff And BAS


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN      N = No Page Break
           Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN           N = PACIDN & Name
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                 Page Break: _              Sequence: _
                   PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                   PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:


       Following is a screen image reflecting the report in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.
                       E-6 And Below With BAQ Diff And BAS: 31 Jan 97


          GRADE         SSAN         NAME             BAQ          BAS       PACIDN
            E1        111111111    AMOS RAND          DIF           SR      15SOQ5H3
            E3        111111112    BAKER BRA          DIF          RNA      AA13SHAB
            E6        111111113    GAY DARRE          DIF          RNA      AA21EX45
            E5        111111114    DAVENPORT          DIF          RNA      AB57XZGA

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


6.1.8.6. E-7 AND ABOVE AND NO BAS


       Select option “F” (E-7 and Above and No BAS) from the BAS and BAQ Reports Menu and the
following screen will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                               1631


                                   E-7 And Above And No BAS


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN      N = No Page Break
           Sequence: S = PACIDN & SSAN           N = PACIDN & Name
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                Page Break: _              Sequence: _
                  PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                  PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:


      Following is a screen image reflecting the report in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.


                            E-7 And Above And No BAS: 31 Jan 97


          GRADE          SSAN          NAME              BAQ       BAS     PACIDN
            E8         111111111     AMOS RAND           W/D              15SOQ5H3
            E9         111111112     BAKER BRA           W/D              AA13SHAB
            E7         111111113     GAY DARRE           W/D              AA21EX45
            E7         111111114     DAVENPORT           W/D              AB57XZGA
            E8         111111115     SMITH JOH           W/D              ABCDE76L

      F2 Exit To Main Menu


6.1.8.7. BAS PAYMENTS


       Select option “G” (BAS Payments) from the BAS and BAQ Reports Menu and the following
screen will appear.
1632                                                            AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                           Bas Report


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN      N = No Page Break
           BAS Type: 1 = Separate Rations      3 = Emergency BAS
                 2 = Rations Not Available 4 = No BAS
           Sequence: N = PACIDN & Name           S = PACIDN & SSAN
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                 Page Break: _     BAS Type: _  Sequence: _
                   PACIDN 1:                PACIDN 3:
                   PACIDN 2:                PACIDN 4:

       Following is a screen image reflecting Separate Rations in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.


                                     BAS Report: 31 Jan 97


          GRADE         SSAN          NAME           BAS      BAQ         PACIDN
            E1        111111111     AMOS RAND        SR       W/D        15SOQ5H3
            E3        111111112     BAKER BRA        SR       W/D        AA13SHAB
            E5        111111113     GAY DARRE        SR       W/D        AA21EX45
            E6        111111114     DAVENPORT        SR       W/D        AB57XZGA
            E8        111111115     SMITH JOH        SR       W/D        ABCDE76L

       F2 Exit To Main Menu


6.1.8.8. VHA PAYMENTS


       Select option “H” (VHA Payments) from the BAS and BAQ Reports Menu and the following
screen will appear.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                           1633


                                              VHA Report


          Page Break: Y = Page Break on PACIDN       N = No Page Break
           VHA Type: 1 = VHA Offset          3 = Interim VHA
                 2 = Dual VHA
           Sequence: N = PACIDN & Name            S = PACIDN & SSAN
            PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDN codes or leave blank for all records


                 Page Break: _       BAS Type: _  Sequence: _
                   PACIDN 1:                  PACIDN 3:
                   PACIDN 2:                  PACIDN 4:


          Following is a screen image reflecting VHA Offset in PACIDN and SSAN sequence.


                                        VHA Report: 31 Jan 97


            GRADE          SSAN          NAME             VHA        BAQ            PACIDN
              E1         111111111     AMOS RAND           V         W/D           15SOQ5H3
              E3         111111112     BAKER BRA           V         W/D           AA13SHAB
              E5         111111113     GAY DARRE           V         W/D           AA21EX45
              E6         111111114     DAVENPORT           V         W/D           AB57XZGA
              E8         111111115     SMITH JOH           V         W/D           ABCDE76L

          F2 Exit To Main Menu


6.1.9. EFT STATISTICS


         This options provides the servicing pay office a means to determine the EFT participation percent-
age for each unit assigned to their ADSN. The report includes the total number of personnel assigned per
unit, total EFT participants and the EFT participation rate percentage.
          Select option “J” (EFT Statistics) from the UCFR Main Menu and the following screen will
appear:
1634                                                                   AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                               EFT - Check To Bank Statistics: 31 Jan 97


             PACIDN          TOTAL EFT         TOTAL ADDRESS           TOTAL          % EFT
            15SOQ5H3             1                   0                    1           100.00
           AA13SHAB              6                   3                    9            66.67
            AA21EX45            127                  0                  127           100.00
           ABCDXZGA             17                   0                   17           100.00
           ABEFE76L             37                   0                   37           100.00

       F2 Exit To Main Menu
6.1.10. PRINT UCFR BY PACIDN


         This option provides the servicing pay office the capability to print the UCFR by individual unit or
for all units assigned to their ADSN.


       Select option “K” (Print UCFR by PACIDN) from the UCFR Main Menu and the following
screen will appear:


                                   Print UCFR by PACIDN
                   PACIDN: Enter 1 to 4 PACIDNs or leave blank for all records


                                    PACIDN 1:                 PACIDN 2:
                                    PACIDN 3:                 PACIDN 4:


      Enter the required data and the units UCFR will be printed to include a legend describing all data
elements.


6.2. UCFR MAINTENANCE


       This section explains the steps/procedures necessary to maintain the UCFR programs. Prior to
accessing any UCFR Inquiry options, the UCFR Data file once downloaded from the main frame system,
must be obtained and converted to the EARS data base.


       Options to get and convert the data file, file maintenance, and deletion of UCFR records are
explained in this section.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1635


6.2.1. GET UCFR DATA FILE


          After downloading the UCFR Data file, the data must be converted to the EARS program.


      First verify the correct processing month. If needed, select option "C" from the EARS Main
Menu or option “L” from the LES Processing Menu to change the processing month.


          Select option “L” (Get UCFR Data File) from the UCFR Menu and the following screen will
appear:


             Please enter the exact location of the LES file. For example:


                          Floppy Disk A - Enter: A:
                          Floppy Disk B - Enter: B:
                  Drive C: & Subdirectory AFO - Enter: C:\AFO\
                 Drive C: & Subdirectory MILPAY - Enter: C:\MILPAY|


             Location of the LES file: C:\DTAFO\


       Enter the exact location (drive and subdirectory) of the UCFR file, to include the colon (:) and
back slash (\).


        Enter the requested information and the following screen displaying the directory and all files cur-
rently in the directory will appear.


                                        L - Get UCFR Data File


Directory
KEY85998.DAT
KEY85998.LZH
RB961108.DAT
1636                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


                                              Instructions


         Up Arrow = Up 1 Item                      Down Arrow = Down 1 File
         CTRL-Home = Go 1st File                   CTRL-End = Go Last File
         PG Up = Go Previous Page                  PG DN = Go Next Page
         ESC = Abort                               Enter = Select File


      Use the arrow keys to highlight the file, then press the “Enter” key. EARS will return the user to
the UCFR Processing Menu.


6.2.2. CONVERT UCFR DATA FILE


       After downloading and selecting the UCFR Data File (option “L”), use this option to begin the
conversion process.


      Select option “M” (Convert UCFR Data File) from the UCFR Menu and the following on screen
prompt will appear:


                                UCFR Month: October           Site ID: O


      First, verify that you are in the correct processing month. If needed, select option “C” from the
Main Menu to change the processing month.
        EARS will prompt you to enter the “Site ID” for the UCFR file being converted. The site ID will
be used to produce other statistical reports. Press the “ENTER” key and the following on screen prompt
will appear:


                   Is the UCFR month and Site ID correct? (YES or NO) (YES)


       Once all information is confirmed, EARS will upload the UCFR data file and begin conversion.


       If you entered drive A: or B: (floppy disk drives) as the location of the UCFR file, then EARS
assumes the file is on several floppy disks. As such, EARS will copy the file to the computer’s hard drive
and prompt you to insert the next floppy disk. You may upload as many disks as required in any
sequence. After the last disk, press the (ESC) key. This tells the EARS program that the last disk has
been copied and to complete the conversion process.
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                       1637


6.2.3. FILE MAINTENANCE


       Use this option to reindex the UCFR file in SSAN sequence. The option is required only if you
receive an “Index File Corrupted” error message.


        Select option “N” (File Maintenance) from the UCFR Menu and EARS will reindex the UCFR
file and return the user to the UCFR Menu:


6.2.4. DELETE UCFR RECORDS


       EARS maintains a 12-month history of UCFR files. As such, if you are starting a new month
(converting UCFR files for a new month), you must delete the prior year’s UCFR files. For example, if
you’re converting the UCFR files for January 97, you must delete the UCFR files for January 96.


      First, verify that you are using the correct LES processing month. If needed, use option “C” for
the EARS Main Menu or option “L” from the LES Processing Menu to change processing months.


       Select option “O” to delete UCFR files. The following on screen prompt will appear:


        CONFIRM - DO YOU WANT TO DELETE ALL RECORDS? (YES/NO) (YES)
        YES - DO YOU REALLY WANT TO DELETE RECORDS? (YES/NO) (YES)


       EARS will delete the files and return the user to the UCFR Inquiries Menu.


7.0. HOUSING RECONCILIATION


              Information for this Section will be added at a later date.


8.0. SIDPERS RECONCILIATION


              Information for this Section will be added at a later date.


9.0. UCFR AND LES MISMATCHES
1638                                                                 AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007


        This option allows the servicing pay office to compare the current month LES and UCFR and
identify UCFR accounts with no LES. Once identified, corrective action can be taken.


        Select option “R” (UCFR and LES Mismatches) from the UCFR Menu and the following screen
will appear.


                                    UCFR and LES Site ID BUMP


           This routine is used by offices who locally print Leave and Earnings
           Statements and receive a Unit Commander’s Financial Report (UCFR).


           It compares the current month LES and UCFR files and identifies UCFR
           records with no LES statement. To correct these mismatches, you must
           process a SC04 transaction to change the LES Print Indicator.


           LES Date: 1-31 Jan 97               UCFR Date: 31 Jan 97


           Start Reconciliation? (Y)es or (N)o: (_)




       Enter the requested data and EARS will identify the mismatches and print the report.


10.0. UIC REPORT


       Information for this Section will be added at a later date.


SECTION 7 OFF LINE REPORTS


       Information for this Section will be added at a later date.


SECTION 8 DFAS INPUT SYSTEM


       Prior to printing Leave and Earnings Statements, the LES data downloaded from the DJMS core
system must be formatted for the branch of service. This selection provides an option for each branch of
AFMAN65-116V1 1 APRIL 2007                                                                            1639


service to format their statements. Also in this selection are three options required in contingency loca-
tions to upload Reserve Component transactions and format the RC LES.


       Select option “W” (DFAS Input System) from the Pay Utilities Menu and the following menu
screen will appear.


                                        DFAS Processing Menu


           A = Upload RC File - Assign to Contingency
           B = Upload RC File - Remove from Contingency
           C = Format RC Army LES File for Remote Printing
           D = Format AC Army LES File for Remote Printing
           E = Format AC Navy LES File for Remote Printing
           F = Format AC AF LES File for Remote Printing
           X = Return to Main Menu


        Options “A”, “B”, and “C”, require coordination and approval by Central Site prior to any ser-
vicing pay office using them.


        Select the option applicable to your branch of service and EARS will format the LES data for
printing and return the user to the Main Menu.
