                                       Joint Service
                                INSTRUCTION
                                                                                   DLAI 4145.4
                                                                                      AR 740-3
                                                                              AFMAN 23-125(IP)
                                                                          NAVSUPINST 4400.100A
                                                                                 MCO 4450.15A
                                                                               November 9, 2012

                                                                                          J-331-TQ

                                   STOCK READINESS
                           (This publication has been revised significantly
                                and must be reviewed in its entirety.)

A. REFERENCES

   1. DoD 4140.1-R, Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, May 03.

    2. DLAI 4145.4/AR 740-3/AFJMAN 23-231/NAVSUPINST 4400.100/MCO 4450.15, dated 6
January 2003.

   3. AR 700-15/NAVSUPINST 4030.28E/AFJMAN 24-206/MCO 4030.33E/DLAR 4145.7,
Packaging of Materiel, dated 12 January 2004.

   4. DoD 4000.25-M, Defense Logistics Management System (DLMS), Volume II (Reporting of
Supply Discrepancies), Mar 03.

   5. DoD 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, volume 12, chapter 7, Mar 07.

   6. MIL-STD-174E, Palletized Unit Loads, May 08

   7. DLAD 4145.41/AR 700-143/AFI 24-210-IP/NAVSUPINST 4030.55A/MCO 4030.40A,
Packaging of Hazardous Materials, dated 1 April 2010

   8. DoD 4140.27-M, Shelf-Life Management Manual, May 03.

   9. DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part II, Cargo Movement, Jun 08.
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

    10. DLAI 1506, DLA Packaging Program, Mar 10.

    11. MIL-STD 129P, Military Marking for Shipment and Storage, dated 19 September 2007.

    12. MIL-STD 2073-1D, Standard Practice for Military Packaging, dated 1999.

   13. MIL-STD-1686C, ESD Control Program for Protection of Electrical and Electronic Parts,
Assemblies, and Equipment (Excluding Electrically Initiated Explosive Devices), dated 2 May 1980.

   14. DLAR 4155.24/AR 702-7/AFR 74-6/SECNAVINST 4855.5A, Product Quality Deficiency
Report Program, July 93.

B. PURPOSE. This instruction:

    1. Supersedes reference A2.

    2. Implements reference A1 and establishes the DoD Stock Readiness Program, hereafter referred to
as SR.

    3. Prescribes instructions for care of supplies, including the inspection and reporting of condition and
serviceability of materiel, and the scheduling, controlling, and reporting of packaging and other cost
reimbursable actions in support of depot receiving operations, and uniform Care of Supplies in Storage
(COSIS).

   4. Charters the Defense Stock Readiness Group (DSRG) under the auspices of the Defense Logistics
Agency (DLA) and Military Stock Readiness Coordinators (see Enclosure 1).

C. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE. This guidance is applicable to HQ DLA, the Military
Services, DLA Distribution, DLA Distribution Centers, and DLA Supply Centers (DSC)/Military
Services Inventory Control Points (ICP). It applies to classes of supply that are managed by an
ICP/DSC and stored at the DLA Distribution Centers, except Class V, Class VI, and Bulk Class III.

D. DEFINITIONS (See Enclosure 2 for the list of acronyms.)

     1. Below Depot Level Repair Materiel. For purposes of this instruction, this refers to reparable
materiel that is repaired only in field level repair shops. The materiel, as a general rule, is only sent as a
customer return to a DLA Distribution Center for storage because it is serviceable, or if it is unserviceable,
the field activity does not have the authority to dispose of it at field level.

    2. Care of Supplies in Storage (COSIS). A program composed of a set of processes and procedures
whose purpose is to ensure that materiel in storage is maintained in ready-for-issue condition or to prevent
uneconomic deterioration of materiel. With proper COSIS, supplies and equipment in storage will be
preserved and maintained in a issuable condition through inspection and actions taken to correct any forms
of deterioration and to restore packaging to ready-for-issue (RFI) condition. COSIS includes the in-storage
visual inspection, minor repair, preservation, and packing of materiel, and all intra-depot materiel
movement to perform those tasks. Note: COSIS does not include the cost to repair the asset, unless minor
repair is accomplished within the one-hour routine COSIS action.

       a. Routine COSIS. Those COSIS activities such as cyclic inspections on materiel in storage
required to detect deterioration of materiel and/or packaging, and minor repair. COSIS is funded by Net



                                                                                                             2
                          DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

 Landed Cost (NLC) pricing and, in general, entails those actions necessary to validate the condition of the
 materiel, and/or packaging. Actions included in the NLC pricing are those completed within one-hour
 while at the storage location. Actions exceeding one-hour are reimbursable by the ICP/DSC. Re-
 warehousing materiel to perform corrective actions is included in reimbursable costs.

         b. Reimbursable COSIS. Those COSIS activities such as preservation, and packing of materiel in
 storage resulting from COSIS inspections exceeding one-hour at the location is not funded under NLC and,
 in general, entails those actions necessary to correct the problems with the materiel, and/or packaging
 identified by the routine COSIS that exceeds one-hour. This includes the costs for any component parts
 required in performing minor repairs to repairable containers. This applies to materiel in storage, and
 includes both minor repairs and necessary packaging that will maintain the stored materiel in assigned
 materiel condition codes. Funding for this work is outside of the scope of the NLC pricing structure as
 defined in the Defense Working Capital Fund.

         c. Visual Inspection. Visual inspections require the review of materiel in a given location and
 identify whether the packaging/packing has degraded. Except when the packaging has degraded, the DLA
 Distribution Center shall never unpack materiel to conduct a visual inspection.

     3. Commercial Vendor – Privately owned and operated manufacturer or maintenance facility.

      4. Consumable Materiel. For purposes of this instruction, consumable materiel is consumed in use,
 such as ammunition, paint, fuel, cleaning and preserving materials, surgical dressings, drugs, medicines,
 etc. or that lose their identity, such as spare parts, etc.

     5. Defense Logistics Management System (DLMS). A broad base of business rules, to include
 uniform policies, procedures, time standards, transactions, and data management, designed to meet DoD
 requirements for total logistics support. Founded upon American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
 Accredited Standards Committee (ASC) X12 Electronic Data Exchange (EDI), DLMS supports Extensible
 Markup Language (XML) and automated information technology including radio frequency identification,
 linear bar coding, and 2-dimension symbology. DLMS will be expanded to support emerging enterprise
 business capabilities such as; data sharing, object-oriented user interfaces, and increased use of web-based
 technology, as appropriate.

     6. Depot Level Repair (DLR) Materiel. For purposes of this instruction, repairable materiel sent to a
 depot to be repaired at that depot or other site, or stored at a DLA Distribution Center awaiting entry into
 the maintenance or repair cycle at the direction of the managing ICP.

     7. Kind, Count, Condition (KCC):

         a. Kind: There are two forms of determining the ‘Kind’ of materiel; (1) An inspection of the bare
item verifying the part-number against the assigned National Stock Number (NSN), or (2) A verification
that the documentation corresponds with the identification label in accordance with MIL-STD-129 marking
requirements.

        b. Count: A count of the total number of items.

         c. Condition: An inspection verification of the general physical appearance of all packages or
 verification of the characteristics of the bare item.

     8. Major End Items (MEI). For purpose of this instruction, a MEI is a final combination of end



                                                                                                                3
                          DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

products that is ready for its intended use; that is ships, tanks, launchers, aircraft, etc.

    9. Major Repair. Repair actions taken by the DLA Distribution Center on equipment and/or
packaging that is within the DLA Distribution Center’s capabilities and exceeds one-hour in duration
per NSN storage location. This includes rewarehousing actions to move materiel to preservation,
packaging, packing and marking (PPP&M) workstation to perform the corrective action. This
generally exceeds the one-hour timeframe established for routine COSIS actions. Examples are
relabeling of more than 150 line items, repairing wood boxes or crates, replacing/resealing barrier
bags, etc.

     10. Minor Repair. Repair actions taken by a DLA Distribution Center on equipment and/or packaging
that is within the DLA Distribution Center's capabilities and does not exceed one hour in duration per NSN
storage location. Examples may include replacement of tapes or labels, replacing humidity indicators,
minor repairs to containers, etc.

    11. Net Landed Cost (NLC). The acronym used by DLA Distribution for the yearly recurring core
mission work performed by DLA Distribution for its customers and includes Receipt/Issue/Transshipment
processing, Storage, 1st and Second Destination Transportation and is billed to our customers on a rate
driven basis.

    12. Organic Vendor. Government owned and operated manufacturer or maintenance facility.

    13. Packaging. The elements of packaging are defined in reference A3.

    14. Product Quality Deficiency Report (PQDR) SF 368. A PQDR is a customer's feedback, which
identifies materiel quality deficiencies. PQDRs are used to document, investigate and purge defective
materiel from the supply system in accordance with Reference 14.

    15. Secondary Items. For the purpose of the instruction, a secondary is an item, component, and spare
part, which has not been classified as an end item.

    16. Serviceable. The item can be used as is (Condition Codes “A” through “D”).

     17. Stock Readiness. A DoD program involving the tasks needed to assure that the proper condition
of materiel in storage is known and reported, that the condition is properly recorded, and that the materiel
is properly provided with adequate packaging protection to prevent any degradation to lower condition
codes. Stock Readiness concerns itself with the in-storage inspection, minor repair, and packaging aspects
associated with these efforts. Stock Readiness includes the elements of COSIS plus the functions related
to the receipt, identification, classification, and packaging of materiel during the receipt process (referred
to herein as the KCC). KCC means to inspect that the correct item was received/inspected, the correct
quantity was received/inspected and the condition of the materiel’s packaging is appropriate to the
condition code assigned. Stock Readiness excludes those actions that fall under the area of general
warehouse care and depot maintenance, including the use of proper storage aids, identification of
materiel/storage locations, and rewarehousing actions.

   18. Supply Condition Codes (CC). Condition of the materiel during receipt, storage and issue (see
Enclosure (3) for definitions of all supply condition codes.

    19. Supply Discrepancy Report (SDR) SF 364 (depicted in Enclosure (4)). A manual form or its
electronic equivalent is used to report a supply discrepancy and to document reimbursable work discovered



                                                                                                             4
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

during receiving operations. WebSDR (https://www.daas.dla.mil/websdr/) is linked to Defense Automatic
Addressing System Center (DAASC), which transmits data between the Service systems and WebSDR.
DLA depots use the Distribution Standard System (DSS) to submit SDRs via WebSDR to DAASC. Types
of discrepancies referred to in this instruction include:

         a. Shipping (Item) Discrepancy (codes depicted in Enclosure (4)). Any variation in quantity or
condition of materiel received from that shown on authorized shipping documents, e.g., DD Form 1348-1A
or purchase order (PO). This includes incorrect and misdirected materiel, receipt of canceled requirements
and improper or inadequate technical or supply documentation.

         b. Packaging Discrepancy (codes depicted in Enclosure (4)). Any unsatisfactory condition due
to improper, inadequate or inappropriate packaging and which causes the item, shipment or package to be
vulnerable to loss, delay or damage or unnecessary expense to the U.S. Government, as in excessive
packaging.

         c. Latent Packaging Discrepancy. This type of SF 364 discrepancy is submitted for materiel
found in storage with latent preservation and packaging discrepancies. These are to be used only for hidden
packaging discrepancies that were not visible at time of receipt.

      20. Storage Quality Control Report (SQCR) - DD Form 1225. A manual form or its electronic
equivalent used to document and request approval of reimbursable work associated with special
inspections and reimbursable COSIS actions. When prepared in the DSS under DLMS, the SQCR is
transmitted to DAAS for forwarding to the applicable Service/Agency system. At this time, only DLA has
fully implemented the DLMS interface. Pending DLMS implementation, the SQCR will be transmitted
via email or fax.

    21. Unserviceable. The item requires repair before it can be used (Condition Codes “E” through
“G”).

    22. Visual Inspection. Visual inspections require review of the materiel and to identify whether the
packaging/packing material has degraded.

E. PROCEDURES. Procedures are divided into the following sections; i.e., Receiving Operations,
COSIS, Special Inspections, Packaging Incident to Shipment, and Disposal Release Orders (DRO).
Enclosures (7) through (9) include Service unique procedures in addition to the basic procedures.

    1. Receiving Operations. Costs for operating receiving operations are included in NLC. DLA
Distribution Center’s will conduct SR receiving operations as follows:

       a. Receipt of New Procurements and Materiel Returned from Commercial Repair in
Condition Code (CC) ‘A’ (Materiel Shipped from Commercial Vendors/Suppliers)

          (1) Determine the materiel condition and completeness to the extent possible by
performing a KCC inspection.

              (a) Identify the item by comparing the NSN and/or part number on the supply
documentation against one bare item when the contract requires destination inspection. Inspect for
MIL-STD-129 markings. See E.1.a.(d) for source inspection requirements.

                  [1] Per MIL-STD-130 certain materiel may not be physically marked or tagged due



                                                                                                           5
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

to the lack of marking space or when marking or tagging would have an adverse effect on the
materiel’s composition. These items are required to be marked in accordance with MIL-STD-129, in
which a part number can be validated using WebFLIS to verify the materiel.

                (b) Ensure the appropriate count is received by comparing the quantity and unit of
issue against the supply documentation.

               (c) Ensure the materiel is in CC ‘A’ by comparing the condition of the pack with the
contractual requirements. If discrepancies are noted, place the materiel in storage in CC ‘L’ and
submit a SDR in accordance with reference A4.

                (d) Identify the item by comparing the NSN and/or part number on the supply
documentation against the unit pack identification label when the contract requires source inspection
by comparing this data with Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) or the appropriate ICP Data
File. Inspect for MIL-STD-129 markings.

             (2) Inspect Packaging. Ensure that the unit pack is appropriate to the level of packaging
specified by checking the applicable contract in the Electronic Document Application (EDA) website
at http://eda.ogden.disa.mil/. The packaging requirements in the DSS shall be used if no
requirements are specified in the contract. If no requirements exist in DSS, use the Inventory Control
Points (ICP) Packaging Data File (see https://headquarters.dla.mil/j-3/j-334/stockreadiness.asp) or the
FLIS. If there are no packaging requirements available during the receipt process, notify the local
Packaging Specialist or DLA Distribution Packaging Specialist and continue the receipt process and
place the materiel in storage in c/c ‘A’. For destination inspection, open one unit pack to verify
correct packaging specified by checking the applicable contract. If the materiel is protected by a heat-
sealed barrier bag, do not open the barrier to identify the bare item. To determine if the materiel is in
the proper barrier bag, the barrier bag may be embossed with the material specification, such as, MIL-
PRF-121, MIL-PRF-131, MIL-PRF-81705 (ESD) or MIL-DTL-117. For items where Source
inspection is specified in the contract, do not open the unit pack unless there is a reason to suspect that
the packaging is substandard or damaged.

                 (a) If the materiel is packaged appropriately, place the materiel in storage in CC ‘A’.

                 (b) If a packaging discrepancy is noted, prepare a packaging SDR using the
appropriate screens in the DSS, WebSDR or complete a Standard Form (SF) 364 (see Enclosure 4) in
accordance with reference A4, and place the materiel in CC ‘L’ and await disposition by the ICP,
unless it meets the exceptions noted in paragraph E.1.a(2)(c) (page 6, herein). (Supply and Packaging
Discrepancy Codes are noted in 4.). In the remarks section of the SF 364 there shall be a detailed
description/explanation of the specific contractual packaging requirement that was not satisfied. This
information should include the specific packaging discrepancy; i.e., Method of Preservation does not
conform to the contract requirements. The contract number and the cost (labor and material) to
resolve the discrepancy must always be included.

                     [1] The ICP will provide disposition electronically or the hard copy SF 364 will
be annotated in Block 23 by the managing ICP as approved or disapproved with corrective action. If
the ICP authorizes the DLA Distribution Center to perform the corrective action, the DLA Distribution
Center will charge the appropriate Internal Order Number (assigned by DLA Distribution).
Disposition may be electronically transmitted to the DLA Distribution Center by the use of WebSDR
or email. Emails with disposition are not the preferred method of responding to the DLA Distribution
Center. After completing the corrective action, the DLA Distribution Center will close the SDR in



                                                                                                              6
                          DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

DSS.

                      [2] If the DLA Distribution Center does not receive disposition instructions
within 55 calendar days of submitting the SF 364, refer the problem to the DLA Distribution Center
SR coordinator to follow-up with the ICP. Then, if disposition is not received within 30 calendar
days, report to the DLA Distribution SR coordinator for further action.

                (c) If a reusable container is required, verify that the materiel is packed in the specified
container or an authorized/approved alternate pack. The Optional Procedural Indicator (OPI) will define if
an alternate container is permitted or the Special Packaging Instruction (SPI) will provide alternative
container requirements. The OPI may be found on the ICP packaging websites. If there is a question
about the packaging, contact the appropriate ICP as noted in the web site: https://headquarters.dla.mil/j-
3/j-334/stockreadiness.asp. Place the materiel in CC “L”.

                 (d) For DLA-managed materiel only, if the materiel received by the DLA Distribution
Center has Pre-positioned Materiel Receipt (PMRD), no other discrepancies DLA Distribution Center
are noted, is a Secondary Item and the cost to correct the discrepant packaging is less than $300; the
DLA Distribution Center may perform the correction without further authorization from the ICP and
receipt the materiel in the appropriate Serviceable condition code. The DLA Distribution Center must
submit an informational SF 364 to the DSC/ICP. For DLA-managed materiel, Clothing and Textile
commodity, the DLA Distribution Center will receipt materiel as above, but the threshold costs are less
than $500.

               (e) If an item is identified as Electrostatic Discharge Sensitive (ESDS), ensure that
proper precautions are taken to maintain the integrity by conducting the inspection at an approved
ESD workstation.

               (f) If an item is identified as a shelf-life material, ensure there is 85% of the shelf-life
remaining during receipt processing. Follow additional procedures defined in reference A.8.

         b. Receipt of Materiel other than Condition Code ‘A’ Shipped from a Maintenance
Facility. Perform KCC as noted in paragraph E.1.a., except place the materiel in the CC specified on
the serviceability tag; i.e., CC ‘G’ (Unserviceable, Incomplete, Missing Parts). This materiel must be
packaged as defined in the Service unique requirements (see Enclosures 7-9). If materiel is being
returned from maintenance, ensure the serviceability tag required to be completed by the maintenance
activity is attached to the materiel. If no tag is attached, the DLA Distribution Center is not authorized
to complete the tag data and must request from maintenance personnel.

        c. Receipt of Materiel Shipped from Military Services Organizations. (Materiel Shipped
from the Services that is being returned for Repair or is Excess (repairables and/or consumables or
Materiel Shipped from an Organic Vendor and/or Military maintenance facilities).

            (1) Determine the materiel condition and completeness to the extent possible by
performing KCC inspection. Inspect the materiel using the procedures defined in paragraph E.1.a.(2)
(see page 5). If the materiel is packaged in an unopened vendor pack, inspect the packaging for
deterioration. Inspect for MIL-STD-129 markings. If no discrepancies are noted, place the materiel in
storage in CC ‘A’.

             (2) If the package shows evidence of having been opened and is C/C ‘A’ through ‘D’ and
is not in its’ original vendor pack, open the package if not identified as an ESDS item and proceed as



                                                                                                              7
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

noted below. If the item shows evidence of being an ESDS item, ensure package is opened at the
proper ESDS workstation. If the materiel is determined to be serviceable, and is in the appropriate
package, close/seal the packaging at the ESDS workstation in accordance with MIL-HDBK 1686 and
place the materiel in storage in the appropriate serviceable CC. To determine if the materiel is in the
proper barrier bag, the barrier bag may be embossed with the material specification, such as, MIL-
PRF-121, MIL-PRF-131, MIL-PRF-81705 (ESDS) or MIL-DTL-117.

                (a) Identify the item by comparing the NSN and/or part number on the supply
documentation against the bare item identification label (if present) and compare this data with the
FLIS or appropriate ICP Database File. If the item does not have an identification label, compare the
part number against the appropriate data using FLIS or ICP database files. If the packaging data is not
available by the ICP, use the packaging data in DSS or FLIS.

                 (b) If the DLA Distribution Center can determine that the item is incorrectly
identified, correct the discrepancy, prepare an ‘information only’ Shipping SDR in accordance with
reference A4, and post the receipt to record in its appropriate CC.

                 (c) If the DLA Distribution Center cannot identify the item or determine the materiel
condition, receipt the materiel in CC ‘K’ and prepare a Shipping SDR requesting ICP assistance.
Ensure the SDR reflects a complete description of the current condition of the item, e.g. if the item is
improperly packaged, include in the remarks a description of how it is packaged and if packaging is
new or used in good condition or damaged. Photos of the discrepancy are recommended and may be
transferred to the ICP via email or WEBSDR.

               (d) If the materiel received is in a supply condition other than what is annotated on the
receipt documentation, prepare an ‘information only’ Shipping SDR in accordance with reference A4
for misrepresented supply condition. Post the receipt to record and place the materiel in storage in the
applicable condition code. (see Enclosure (3)).

                (e) If the materiel has a packaging discrepancy with no shipping discrepancies noted,
and is a Secondary Item and the cost to correct the discrepant packaging is less than $300, the DLA
Distribution Center must submit a Packaging ‘information only’ SDR (SF 364), perform the corrective
action without further authorization from the ICP/Owner and receipt the materiel in the appropriate
Serviceable CC. PMRD is not required. The $300 threshold rule includes the total cost of the
discrepancy per receipt document. This rule applies throughout the document where the $300
threshold is defined.

               (f) If the materiel has a packaging discrepancy with no shipping discrepancies noted,
and is a Secondary Item and the cost to correct the discrepant packaging is greater than $300, the DLA
Distribution Center must submit a Packaging SDR (SF 364) to the ICP. Place the materiel in CC ‘K’
pending disposition instructions from the ICP.

                    [1] The ICP will provide disposition electronically or the hard copy SF 364 will be
annotated in Block 23 by the managing ICP as approved or disapproved with corrective action. If the
ICP authorizes the DLA Distribution Center to perform the corrective action, the DLA Distribution
Center will charge the appropriate Internal Order Number (assigned by DLA Distribution Center).
Disposition may be electronically transmitted to the DLA Distribution Center by the use of WebSDR
or email. Emails with disposition are not the preferred method of responding to the DLA Distribution
Center. After completing the corrective action, the DLA Distribution Center will close the SDR in
DSS.



                                                                                                           8
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A


               (g) If the materiel has a packaging and shipping discrepancy, prepare a packaging
discrepancy and annotate the appropriate discrepancy code for the shipping discrepancy. Place the
materiel in CC ‘K’ pending disposition instructions from the ICP.

                     [1] If the ICP does not authorize the DLA Distribution Center to perform
corrective action, then the ICP will concurrently provide disposition instructions for the materiel.

                    [2] If the DLA Distribution Center does not receive disposition instructions within
55 calendar days of initiating the SDR, refer the problem to the DLA Distribution Center SR monitor
to follow-up with the ICP. Then, if disposition is not received within 30 calendar days, report to the
DLA Distribution SR monitor for further action.

           (3) If the ICP packaging data file requires the use of a reusable container, proceed as
follows:

                (a) Inspect the container to determine that it is the correct container and that it is
serviceable. If the container is different from that required by the ICP, or if the container is
unserviceable, prepare a packaging SDR in accordance with reference A4, and request the correct
container from the Service or DLA container reclamation program/site.

                (b) Open the shipping container and identify the item by comparing the NSN listed in
FLIS for the part number marked on the item with the NSN listed on the supply documentation. Do
not open sealed barrier bags unless there is visible damage or evidence of tampering. If the item is
incorrectly identified, prepare an ‘information only’ shipping SDR.

            (4) If the item is identified as a Major End Item, receipt item in the appropriate CC. If
PMRD is not available accept the Item in CC ‘K’, and prepare a Packaging SDR for ICP disposition.
If the depot has a Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) in place to perform PPP&M on
Major End Items, then perform the required preservation and receipt the materiel in the appropriate
CC.

            (5) For materiel received from an Organic Repair/Service Maintenance Facility that
requires the DLA Distribution Center to preserve and/or package the item, follow the inspection
procedures in E.1.a.(1) (see page 6) except that if the materiel has a discrepancy, place materiel in CC
‘K’ and await disposition from the ICP. Preserve and package the materiel using the ICP packaging
requirements and the procedures defined in E.1.c.(2) (see page 7).

        d. Receipt of Stock Transfer Order (STO). Identify the item by comparing the NSN and/or
part number on the supply documentation against one bare item by comparing this data with FLIS or
the appropriate ICP Data File. Inspect for MIL-STD-129 markings. When the receiving DLA
Distribution Center receipts the STO and there is a packaging discrepancy, the DLA Distribution
Center shall take corrective action and submit a SDR (SF Form 364) to the directing ICP and a copy to
the shipping DLA Distribution Center. For Service-owned materiel, the DLA Distribution Center
must submit the SF Form 364 for disposition. If approved to repackage the STO, the Service shall
provide reimbursable funding.

    2. COSIS Inspections. Through the SR program, DLA Distribution Center’s will survey the
condition of the materiel’s packaging at a frequency determined by the Type of Storage (TOS) code
assigned to the materiel or the frequency provided to a unique materiel commodity. If the materiel is



                                                                                                           9
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

visibly deteriorated, the DLA Distribution Center’s will document the findings to the ICP via Routine
COSIS procedures below. COSIS inspections will be performed on all items in storage with a demand
less than 500 per year. The DLA Distribution Center’s will promptly repair any minor packaging
deterioration detected as a result of the surveillance outlined in Table 1. Work should be completed
within 90 calendar days of the date of receiving ICP approval and all required packaging materials and
containers are available. Financial responsibility for repairs to materiel and packaging due to damage
in storage will be assigned in accordance with reference A5. In general, the minimum levels of
packing to be observed in the SR program are as follows unless specified in a Special Packaging
Instruction (SPI):


         TYPE                   TYPE       MATERIEL     REUSABLE                           LEVEL OF
       MATERIEL               STORAGE     CONDITION     CONTAINER                          PACKING
                                            CODE        REQUIRED?                         (MINIMUM)
     CONSUMABLE             OUTSIDE       ALL CODES        NO                                A
     CONSUMABLE              INSIDE      SERVICEABLE       NO                              MINIMAL
      REPARABLE             OUTSIDE       ALL CODES        -- *                              A***
      REPARABLE              INSIDE       ALL CODES       YES*                               B***
      REPARABLE              INSIDE      SERVICEABLE       NO                                B**
      REPARABLE              INSIDE     UNSERVICEABLE      NO                              MINIMAL
                         TABLE 1. MINIMUM LEVELS OF PACKING

        * If a reusable container is specified in the ICP Packaging Data File, it is the only approved
        container, unless an alternative was provided in the SPI. If alternate packaging information is
        not provided, the DLA Distribution Center must submit a packaging waiver/deviation request
        to the managing ICP Packaging Office who may provide approval or alternative method in
        writing. The DLA Distribution Center should initiate the request by FAX, E-mail or
        telephone call.

        ** If packaging is adequate/good condition Level B or Minimal packing, then do not repack.

        *** If containers are not immediately available, the DLA Distribution Center will order the
required containers, package the materiel using Military Preservation with Minimal Military Packing
and store the materiel inside until the reusable containers become available.

         a. Routine COSIS. COSIS inspections are included in the NLC rate and shall, as a
minimum, consist of a visual survey of the materiel and any corrective action not to exceed one-hour
per NSN per storage location. If the corrective action exceeds the one-hour, reimbursement by the ICP
is required and the procedures outlined in paragraph E.2.b. (see page 11) must be followed. Cyclic
inspections and control of shelf-life items will be accomplished as prescribed in paragraph 4 (see page
12).

             (1) The stored materiel will be inspected for conformance with the applicable storage
serviceability standards outlining the frequency of inspection as noted in Table 2. The DSS is
programmed to generate the depot’s monthly workload using Table 2 criteria.

                    TYPE OF STORAGE                         FREQUENCY (MONTHS)
           CONTROLLED HUMIDITY                                            60



                                                                                                          10
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

            CONTROLLED TEMPERATURE                                          30
            NONCONTROLLED                                                   24
            TEMPERATURE
            SHED STORAGE                                                    12
            OPEN STORAGE                                                     6
                    TYPE OF MATERIEL
            SHELF-LIFE MATERIEL                                       SEE REF. A.8
            HAZARDOUS/FLAMMABLE                            6
                           TABLE 2. Frequency of Inspections

             (2) The surveillance of materiel (See reference A.8 for surveillance procedures of shelf-life
materiel) shall consist of the following:

                 (a) Inspect the exterior pack for deterioration and/or marking. Inspect reusable
containers, including any that have humidity indicators, in accordance with container guidance
published by the ICP, via ICP Packaging Data Files.

                   (b) Inspect materiel for rust or corrosion, opened hatches, opened doors, leaking fluids,
flat tires, torn or missing tarps, etc.

                      [1] Major repairs requiring maintenance action; i.e., leaking fluids, excessive rust or
corrosion, will require submitting a DD Form 1225 to the ICP for disposition. Follow the procedures
outlined in E.2.b (see page 9).

                (c) Materiel requiring minor repair will be corrected on-the-spot within the one-hour
time-frame. If discrepancies beyond minor repair are noted, the DLA Distribution Center will report
them to the ICP for reimbursable COSIS in accordance with paragraph E.2.b.

                      [1] Minor on-the-spot repairs may include remarking, closing hatches and doors,
replacing tarps, etc. Purchase of new tarps for Major End Items will require a reimbursable COSIS
action.

             (3) All non-compliant Wood Packaging Material (WPM) identified during routine COSIS
inspections shall be remediated at time of shipment and charged to Net Landed Costs. DLA
Distribution Center Form 1225’s shall not be submitted for disposition or reimbursable expenses to
remediate WPM.

    b. Reimbursable COSIS

         (1) When a DLA Distribution Center identifies an item for reimbursable COSIS work, the
DLA Distribution Center will place the materiel in CC ‘J’, prepare a DD Form 1225, SQCR for each
item in each CC, and forward those forms to the appropriate ICP https://headquarters.dla.mil/j-3/j-
334/stockreadiness.asp. Refer to Enclosure (6) for instructions on completing the DD Form 1225.
DLA Distribution Center’s refer to the Stock Readiness DLA Distribution Training manual for
instruction on completing the DD Form 1225 via DSS. Refer to the DLMS manual Vol II (reference
A.4) for communication of the SQCR via transaction using the DLMS Supplement 842S/Q. Severity



                                                                                                               11
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

of the packaging and/or asset deterioration noted will be indicated on the DD Form 1225 in Block 35
as follows:

             (a) Critical - Materiel is in immediate danger of deteriorating to a lower condition
classification. The bare item shows evidence of corrosion, an ESDS item is exposed to the elements,
etc.

             (b) Major - Materiel is deteriorating and is likely to be in a lower condition classification
at the next COSIS inspection. The packaging is no longer providing protection to the materiel due to
torn barrier bag, small amounts corrosion on the bare item is visible, wooden crates/boxes require
repair, etc.

            (c) Minor - Materiel is not in the packaging specified by the ICP.

        (2) When a DLA Distribution Center prepares the DD Form 1225, ensure Block 32 is
completed with the cost to return the materiel to an issuable condition. Costs based on weight and
cube has been provided by DLA Distribution (J8) to the DLA Distribution Center’s for use in
determining costs to correct the packaging or labeling.

       (3) After the ICP reviews the item, they will return the DD Form 1225 to the DLA Distribution
Center with disposition. Disposition may be to repackage/label the item or forward for disposal.

        (4) Once the DLA Distribution Center receives disposition instructions from the ICP on a CC ‘J’
item, corrective action must be performed within ninety (90) calendar days.

        (5) Upon completion of the authorized reimbursable COSIS, the DLA Distribution Center
performs the action and closes the SQCR (DD Form 1225). Transmission of the DD Form 1225 to the
Services should be generated in DSS, scan the completed DD Form 1225, attach to an email for and
forward to the ICP. The DLA Distribution Center may FAX if scanner and email access is not available.
FAX DSN numbers and E-mail addresses are identified athttps://headquarters.dla.mil/j-3/j-
334/stockreadiness . On a monthly basis, the DLA Distribution Center should query DSS to ensure close
out has occurred. Where supported, the SQCR will be transmitted via the Defense Automatic Addressing
System (DAAS) under DLMS.

     3. Special Inspections. Special inspections are reimbursable in accordance with reference A1
and result from a Safety of Use (SOU) message, an Aviation Safety Action Message (ASAM), a
Safety of Flight (SOF) message, Critical Safety Item (CSI), Critical Item Identification Code (CIIC) or
a special request from the ICP. Special requests may include item data queries/changes, quantity/unit
of issue changes, NSN changes, changing condition codes by contract number, etc. A special
inspection may also be requested by the ICP as a result of receiving a PQDR from the customer. All
work that the DLA Distribution Center’s complete will be automatically generated via FLIS updates or
directed by the ICP. SQCRs are not required for FLIS generated changes/updates. Enclosures (7)
through (9) list Service unique requirements.

         a. When the DLA ICP submits a Stock Screening Request (SSR), EBS is used to transmit the
SSR under DLMS using DLMS Supplement 842C/I. When the Service ICP submits a SSR, an email
is forwarded to the DLA Distribution Center for action pending implementation of the DLMS
transaction interface. Refer to reference A.4 for DLMS procedures.

           (1) When the DLA Distribution Center receives an email SSR, a Special Inspection



                                                                                                             12
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

Request (SIR) workload must be built in DSS by the DLA Distribution Center. The DLA Distribution
Center must also record the inspection results on a DD Form 1225 and forward to the owner and/or
ICP. Transmission of the DD Form 1225 to the Services should be generated in DSS, scan the
completed DD Form 1225, attach to an email for and forward to the ICP. The DLA Distribution
Center may FAX if scanner and email access is not available. FAX DSN numbers and E-mail
addresses are identified athttps://headquarters.dla.mil/j-3/j-334/stockreadiness

           (2) When the DLA Distribution Center receives an SSR via the Enterprise Business
System (EBS) (DLA-managed), the workload is automatically generated in DSS. The DLA
Distribution Center must record the inspection results in DSS and forward to the DSC/ICP.

       d. Time frames for completing COSIS actions by the DLA Distribution Center for Special
and Cyclic Inspections are defined in Table 3. ICP time frames for completing actions are in Table 4.

     Type of Action/Inspection                Condition Code              Timeframe to Complete
Routine COSIS                                ALL                      30 days from 1st of each Month
                                                                      based on TOS
Special Inspection Request (SIR)             ALL                      As defined by the ICP
Action from Disposition received             L and Q items            3 days
from ICP from SDR (SF 364)
Action from Disposition received             K items                  10 days
from ICP from SDR (SF 364)
Action from Disposition received             J items                  90 days
from ICP from SQCR (DD Form
1225)
Safety of Flight (SOF)                       ALL                      5 days
Critical Safety Item (CSI)                   ALL                      5 days

                            Table 3. Distribution Depot Timeframes for Action


     Type of Action/Inspection                Condition Code               Timeframe to Complete

Responding to DD Form 1225 from              ALL                      55 days
Special Inspection Request (SIR)
Disposition to DLA Distribution              ALL                      55 days
Center responding to SDR

                 Table 4. Inventory Control Point (ICP)/Owner Timeframes for Action

     4. Cyclic Inspections. Inspection and control of shelf-life items will be accomplished as
prescribed in reference A.8. Cyclic inspections are conducted monthly as defined by the materiel
expiration date and shelf-life code. At the beginning of each month, the DLA Distribution Center will
retrieve from DSS all cyclic inspections requiring inspection within that month. For example, if the
shelf-life code is ‘M’ and requires an inspection every two-years, all locations with that materiel will
list on the report. Below are minimum requirements for inspections of Type I and II materiel.
Specific instructions shall be adhered to as defined in reference A.8.

        a. Type I non-extendible. For Type I non-extendible shelf-life items, materiel shall be



                                                                                                           13
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

downgraded from condition codes A to B to C to H in accordance with the time frames in Reference A.8.

         b. Type II extendible. For Type II extendible shelf-life items, materiel requiring visual inspection
should be inspected six months prior to the inspection test date. Materiel requiring laboratory testing shall
be tested nine months prior to the inspect/test date, while the item is still in CC ‘A’. Prior to testing, the
Quality Status List (QSL) shall be checked to determine if the item has already been tested and extended.
For materiel requiring laboratory testing which is stored at an intermediate or retail-level supply activity,
the storage activity may test materiel locally in a certified lab or contact the managing ICP shelf-life focal
point for a list of approved certified labs. Based on the results of the inspection or test, the following
actions will be taken:

             (1) When the materiel is inspected or tested and passes, based on the results, a new inspect or
test date and appropriate condition code shall be applied. Materiel will be extended from the date of the
inspection or test.

             (2) Codes ‘B’, ‘C’, or ‘J’. If the materiel cannot be tested while it is still in CC ‘A’, this
materiel shall be allowed to migrate to CC ‘B’, ‘C’, or ‘J’, until the laboratory test results or disposition
instructions are received. When the laboratory test results or disposition instructions are received, the
materiel shall be placed in the appropriate supply condition code.

       c. Cyclic inspections that take less than one (1) hour per NSN per location are performed
under NLC. Inspections that take more than 1 hour per NSN per location are reimbursable by the ICP
or owner.

    5. Packaging Incident to Shipment. The DLA Distribution Center’s shall, at their expense,
repair deterioration of packaging discovered at the time of shipment that was not recommended to the
ICP during receipt processing/inspection (via a SF 364) or during a COSIS inspection (via a DD Form
1225).

    6. Disposal Release Orders (DRO)

         a. When a DRO is received for a partial quantity of materiel in storage, the DRO will be filled with
the poorest quality stock at the DLA Distribution Center or as directed by the ICP. Prime candidates for
selection are materiel in improper packaging, deteriorated packaging, oldest date of pack, and materiel
stored outside. Per reference A1, this work is reimbursable on an actual cost basis from the ICP.

         b. Materiel destined for disposal actions will not be subject to COSIS. Normally, no DLA
Distribution Center labor or material will be expended to correct packaging discrepancies, except as
needed for hazardous materials to comply with applicable regulations, or to comply with specific ICP
instructions.

        c. When materiel destined for disposal is packed in long-life reusable containers, the DLA
Distribution Center will contact the owning ICP before completing the DRO to determine if the ICP
wants to retain the containers. If the ICP directs the DLA Distribution Center to pull the assets from
the containers, the depacking work is cost reimbursable.

        d. All related work and costs will be annotated on the DD Form 1225 and forwarded to the
ICP.

    7. Reusable Container Reclamation Program



                                                                                                                14
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A


        a. Each DLA Distribution Center shall ensure short and long life reusable containers are available
for items requiring reusable containers when identified by the ICPs packaging requirements at no cost to
the owner.

         b. Materiel will not be stored or shipped in unserviceable containers. Each installation will
operate an active container reclamation program. This will allow the maximum availability and reuse of
special design containers and other reusable containers and packaging materials used to package reparable
items. Minor refurbishment of containers shall be accomplished whenever deterioration is detected.
Minor refurbishment of containers includes but is not limited to those actions such as replacement of seals,
hardware, humidity indicators, desiccant, skids, minor corrosion removal, and spot painting to include
stenciling. Reusable containers requiring repair beyond minor refurbishment shall be replaced.
Containers will be requisitioned as necessary for non-priority shipments when the required container is
determined to be unavailable by the ICP.

       c. Excess reusable containers need to be reported to the appropriate Service Container
Reclamation Program Manager as defined in the Services’ web sites below:

           (1) Navy/Marine Corps: https://tarp.navsisa.navy.mil/crrc

           (2) Air Force: https://recon.wpafb.af.mil/

           (3) Army Email to:      LOGSAPSCC.crp.TYAD@us.army.mil

    8. SR Reimbursable Expenditures

        a. Each Fiscal Year the ICPs will provide funding documents to the DLA Distribution for the
projected reimbursable workload. A separate document may be provided for each type of recurring
work such as Packaging SDRs, COSIS, and Special Inspections. The ICPs will provide instructions
outlining restrictions on funding, the scope of work authorized by each document, and the amount of
funding authorized. Approved documentation is required per reference A5.

         b. The DLA Distribution (J-8) will provide monthly reports to each ICP SR coordinator for
each DLA Distribution Center for which the ICP has provided a MIPR. The reports will indicate by
Internal Order Number (ION) the specific type of work and the depot that performed the work. The
DLA Distribution will provide the report monthly to the ICPs.

        c. In general, the guidelines in Table 5 apply to determining the reporting requirements related to
the Stock Readiness Program.




                                                                                                               15
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A


                                       Stock Readiness Expenditures
   Area            Category                                  Packaging          Report
   Contract
                   Supply Discrepancy Report (SDR)           All                 SF 364 form
   Receipts
   Service
                                                                                 ‘Information Only’
   Receipts        Supply Discrepancy Report                 < $300.00
                                                                                 SF 364
   (Returns)
   Service
                                                                                 SF 364 form and
   Receipts        Supply Discrepancy Report                 > $300.00
                                                                                 suspend in CC ‘K’
   (Returns)
                   SDR when no PMRD is the ONLY                                  ‘Information Only’
   Service
                   discrepancy                                                   SF 364
   Receipts
                   SDR when no PMRD with other                                   SF 364 form and
   (Returns)
                   discrepancy                                                   suspend in CC ‘K’
                                                                                 Included in Net
                                                        < 1 Hour
                   Routine COSIS                                                 Landed Cost (NLC)
   Storage
                   Reimbursable COSIS                   > 1 Hour                 DD 1225 form
                   Reimbursable – Special Inspections   N/A                      DD 1225 form
                   Above Minimal Pack,
   Shipment        QUP/Unit of Issue Changes            All                      DD 1225 form
                   Asset Disposal / Container Recovery
                             Table 5. Stock Readiness Expenditures

F. RESPONSIBILITIES

    1. The Deputy Executive Director for Logistics Policy, Headquarters (HQ) DLA will:

       a. Establish procedures for the SR program for DLA and Military Service-managed materiel,
and keep this instruction current.

        b. Review DLA Distribution and the depot’s packaging and warehousing procedures and
systems for compliance with this instruction.

        c. Assure coordination of SR concerns with affected HQ DLA principal staff elements and
the Military Services' Headquarters.

         d. Verify SR program status through on-site evaluation and review of depot performance
reports. Issue revised program policy and procedures necessary to maintain effective program
execution at acceptable levels.

        e. Maintain the DLA SR web site (https://headquarters.dla.mil/j-3/j-334/stockreadiness.asp

        f. Maintain the Defense Stock Readiness Charter (DSRG).

    2. The Commander, DLA Distribution (formally Defense Distribution Center) will:

        a. Designate a SR coordinator who will be responsible for all matters pertaining to SR at the


                                                                                                        16
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

affected depots, including the Quality Control Program for recording and reporting quality control
data. Forward a copy of established procedures to HQ DLA.

        b. Use approved workload data (DSS and DLA Office of Operations Research and Resource
Analysis (DORRA) time standards) as a basis for SR program development and resource distribution.

         c. Develop procedures to guarantee depot compliance with the SR matrix of levels of
protection, and continuously provide visibility of money being spent on SR and projected
reimbursable funding requirements from the ICPs.

        d. Assure that depot commanders comply with this instruction.

        e. Follow up with ICPs who fail to provide timely disposition instructions to depots on
materiel requiring SR work.

       f. Identify and recognize in budget priorities the funding needed to accomplish the SR
workloads and take actions to acquire and maintain the needed resources.

         g. Verify SR program status through on-site evaluation and review of depot performance
reports. Recommend revised program policy and procedures necessary to maintain effective program
execution at acceptable levels.

         h. Maintain the listing of SR Points of Contact (POC) which may be found at:
https://hqc.dla.mil/logisticsoperations/technicalandqualitypolicydivision/Pages/StockReadinessProgram.as
px

          i. Establish procedures and maintain the PPP&M cost data on the DLA Distribution website for
ICPs to access, review, download, and analyze. SR POCs responsible for resolving cost data may be
found at:
https://hqc.dla.mil/logisticsoperations/technicalandqualitypolicydivision/Pages/StockReadinessProgram.as
px

    3. The Commanders of DLA Distribution Centers will:

        a. Designate a Stock Readiness Coordinator for all matters pertinent to accomplishing the SR
program. Report all name, telephone number, and email changes to the DLA Distribution SR
Coordinator. The DLA Distribution Center POC will coordinate with the affected ICPs in developing
SR procedures where specific assets need specific controls. The POC must have in-depth knowledge
of DLA Distribution Center operations and SR packaging requirements of the applicable ICPs being
supported at that location.

       b. Provide the needed emphasis and resources required to effectively and continuously
accomplish the objectives of the SR program.

        c. Ensure the proper packaging materials are available for repackaging to include the proper
Electrostatic Discharge Sensitive (ESDS) workstations in accordance with MIL-STD-1686,
Electrostatic Discharge Control Program for Protection of Electrical and Electronic Parts, Assemblies
and Equipment.

        d. Determine the adequacy of resources provided to accomplish the SR program and identify



                                                                                                        17
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A

shortfalls that will jeopardize program accomplishment.

      e. Refer SR requests for which the ICP fails to provide timely disposition instructions to the
DLA Distribution SR Coordinator.

       f. Operate active reusable container reclamation programs at those depots supporting
maintenance operations.

       g. Conduct COSIS inspections provided by DLA Distribution monthly DSS generated
workload. Identify materiel in storage requiring reimbursable COSIS as directed herein.

        h. Follow Service unique SR requirements defined in Enclosures 7 (Navy), 8 (Army) and 9
(Air Force). If unclear on direction, contact DLA Distribution SR Coordinator for direction.

         i. Perform reimbursable COSIS on materiel as approved by affected ICPs. At the direction of
the ICP, depots will process materiel not funded for COSIS to the DRMO unless the ICP specifically
identifies that COSIS funding will be provided at a later time.

        j. Report completion of reimbursable COSIS work to the managing ICPs.

        k. Maintain an active SDR program audit trail to recoup reimbursable funds expended for
stock readiness work incident to receipt.

    4. The DLA and Military Services' ICPs will:

       a. Designate a Stock Readiness Coordinator. Report name, telephone number, and email
changes to the DLA Distribution SR Coordinator.

        b. Provide sufficient funding, as negotiated at workload conferences or other means, to
conduct an effective SR program for the materiel that requires corrective action or provide instructions
for disposition..

        c. Provide MIPRs for funding DLA Distribution Center Stock Readiness work.

        d. Recommend types and quantities of reusable containers that depots should reclaim, or
provide disposition instructions for those reusable containers that are no longer required.

        e. Obtain access to DLA Distribution website by submitting a DD Form 2875 form to DLA
Distribution (J-8) if detailed PPP&M cost data is required.

    5. The Military Services’ Major Logistics Commands will:

        a. Designate a POC for SR-related concerns to DLA HQ.

        b. Ensure that ICPs are providing accurate packaging data and ITSCs in the FLIS. .

      c. Ensure that ICP funding requirements are addressed in annual Program Objective
Memoranda (POM) and other appropriate funding forecasting means.

G. EFFECTIVE DATE. This publication is effective immediately.



                                                                                                           18
                           DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A


H. INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS. (Reserved for future use.)


BY ORDER OF THE DIRECTOR, DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY




                                                     MARK D. HARNITCHEK
                                                     Vice Admiral, SC, USN
                                                     Director, Defense Logistics Agency




JUDITH A. FEDDER Lt Gen, USAF
DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




                                                     RAYMOND V. MASON
                                                     Lieutenant General, U.S. Army
                                                     Deputy Chief of Staff, G-4




F. PANTER
Lieutenant General, U.S. Marine Corps
Deputy Commandant for Installations and Logistics



                                                     MARK F. HEINRICH
                                                     Rear Admiral, SC, USN
                                                     Commander
                                                     Naval Supply Systems Command


ACCESSIBILITY:
Publications and forms are available on the DLA Publishing website at www.dla.mil/dlaps for downloading or
ordering.

PUBLICATION RELEASE:
There are no restrictions on releasing this publication.




                                                                                                             19
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                 ENCLOSURE (1)

               CHARTER FOR THE DEFENSE STOCK READINESS GROUP (DSRG)

1. OBJECTIVES. The DSRG is a permanent forum established to develop and recommend changes to
policy and guidance on Stock Readiness (SR), including the Care Of Supplies In Storage (COSIS)
throughout the Military Services and Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). Special areas of interest include
the following:

1.1 The inspection and reporting of condition and serviceability of materiel.

1.2 The scheduling, controlling, and reporting of packaging and other cost reimbursable actions in
support of depot receiving operations.

1.3 Standardized Stock Readiness procedures.

1.4 Standardized COSIS procedures for minor repairs, testing, exercising of materiel, and associated
packaging aspects of these efforts.

2. RESPONSIBILITIES. The DSRG is responsible for operating under sections 3 and 4 below, and for
initiating issues, and resolving differences. Specific membership is recommended by the chair, using the
selection criteria developed by the DSRG. The DSRG is composed of the following:

2.1 DLA - (HQ DLA) designee who is the permanent chair of the DSRG.

2.2 DLA Distribution – Formally Defense Distribution Center (DDC) designee.

2.3 Army Materiel Command designee.

2.4 Naval Supply Systems Command (NAVSUPSYSCOM) designee.

2.5 Headquarters Air Force designee.

2.6 United States Marine Corps, Commandant for Installation and Logistics (LPC) designee.

3. FUNCTIONS

3.1 DSRG members shall provide and/or exchange information and develop, coordinate, and recommend
SR policy, work together to detect and recommend solutions to SR policy problems, and promote the
standardization of SR procedures within DoD. Consideration shall be given to individual Military Service
or Agency unique requirements.

3.2 The DSRG shall establish working groups as required to improve operational SR techniques and
processes, study and resolve specific SR issues common to the Military Services and DLA to avoid
duplication of effort and promote standardization.




                                                                                                       20
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                  ENCLOSURE (1)
4. PROCEDURES

4.1 Organization. The DLA Technical and Quality Division member shall chair the DSRG, and will
designate a member to serve as the Executive Secretary (ES).

4.2 Meetings. The DSRG shall meet annually or at the call of the chair, who shall designate the dates and
location of the meeting, and notify the ES. The ES shall notify DSRG membership and invited activities
and request proposed agenda topics at least 60 days before the meeting date.

4.3 Agenda. Members shall provide proposed agenda topics, with talking papers, to the ES and other
members 30 days before the meeting. The ES shall develop and distribute the final agenda at least 15 days
prior to the meeting.

4.4 Minutes. The ES shall prepare the meeting minutes and submit them to the chair within 30 days after
each meeting.

4.5 Travel Funds. The participating organizations shall provide travel funds for their members to
participate in the DSRG meetings.

4.6 Decision-Making Process. DSRG is a decision-making group that recommends SR policy to DLA
HQ. Policy recommendations shall be determined as follows:

4.6.1 Discuss the issue, provide input, and request more information, if necessary.

4.6.2 Discuss alternatives.

4.6.3 Determine by collective voice vote if consensus, i.e., general agreement, has been reached.

4.6.4 If consensus has not been reached, identify points of conflict and agreement, and attempt to
negotiate a solution.

4.6.5 If consensus still has not been reached, a motion on the issue must be made and passed by a majority
vote. If the vote results in a tie, the chair has the right to cast the deciding vote. The chair may also choose
not to vote, in which case the tie fails for lack of a majority vote.

4.6.6 Detailed rebuttals concerning majority approved issues may be made in writing to the chair not later
than 45 days after publication of the meeting minutes, for timely review and decision. Rebuttals must be
fully substantiated to support opposing positions.

4.7 Guests. Members shall be responsible for the invitation of their respective
Service and/or Agency guests. To maintain the effectiveness of the DSRG, guests should be limited to
those who may contribute significantly to the established agenda. Guest attendance is subject to approval
by the chair, or the ES in the absence of the chair.




                                                                                                             21
             DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                      ENCLOSURE (2)
                                 ACRONYMS
AF           Air Force
AFMAN (IP)   Air Force Manual (Interservice Publications)
AR           Army Regulation
ASAM         Aviation Safety Action Message
CC           Supply Condition Code (CC)
COSIS        Care of Supplies in Storage
DLA          Defense Logistics Agency
DLAD         Defense Logistics Agency Directive
DLAI         Defense Logistics Agency Instruction
DLAM         Defense Logistics Agency Manual
DLAR         Defense Logistics Agency Regulation
DLMS         Defense Logistics Management System
DLR          Depot Level Repair
DoD          U. S. Department of Defense
DRO          Disposal Release Order
DSC          DLA Supply Centers (e.g., DLA Aviation, DLA Land and Maritime and DLA
             Troop Support)
DSRG         Defense Stock Readiness Group
FLIS TIR     Federal Logistics Information System, Total Item Record
FRA          Field Return Activity
ICP          Inventory Control Point
ITSC         Item Type Storage Code
ION          Internal Order Number
KCC          Kind, Count and Condition
MCO          Marine Corps Order
MEI          Major End Item
MIPR         Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
MRO          Materiel Release Order
N/A          Not Applicable
NAVSUP       Naval Supply Systems Command
NAVSUPINST   Naval Supply Systems Command Instruction
NLC          Net Landed Cost
NSN          National Stock Number
PMRD         Pre-positioned Materiel Receipt Document
POC          Point of Contact
PQDR         Product Quality Discrepancy Report
PWD          Procurement Work Directive
SDR          Supply Discrepancy Report
SOF          Safety of Flight
SOU          Safety of Use
SPI          Special Packaging Instruction
SR           Stock Readiness
USMC         United States Marine Corps




                                                                                     22
               DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                        ENCLOSURE (3)


                         SUPPLY CONDITION CODES

CODE   TITLE                            EXPLANATION

A      SERVICEABLE (ISSUABLE            New, used, repaired, or reconditioned materiel which is
       WITHOUT QUALIFICATION)           serviceable and issuable to all customers without limitation
                                        or restriction. Includes materiel with more than six (6)
                                        months shelf-life remaining.
B      SERVICEABLE (ISSUABLE WITH       New, used, repaired, or reconditioned materiel which is
       QUALIFICATION)                   serviceable and issuable for its intended purpose but which
                                        is restricted from issue to specific units, activities, or
                                        geographical areas by reason of its limited usefulness or
                                        short service life expectancy. Includes materiel with three
                                        (3) through six (6) months shelf-life remaining.
C      SERVICEABLE (PRIORITY ISSUE)     Items which are serviceable and issuable to selected
                                        customers, but which must be issued before Supply
                                        Condition Codes ‘A’ and ‘B’ materiel to avoid loss as a
                                        usable asset. Includes materiel with less than 3 months
                                        shelf-life remaining.
D      SERVICEABLE (TEST/               Serviceable materiel which requires test, alteration,
       MODIFICATION)                    modification, technical data marking, conversion, or
                                        disassembly. This does not include items which must be
                                        inspected or tested immediately prior to issue.
E      UNSERVICEABLE (LIMITED           Materiel which involves only limited expense or effort to
       RESTORATION)                     restore to serviceable condition and which is accomplished
                                        in the SA where the stock is located. May be issued to
                                        support ammunition requisitions coded to indicate
                                        acceptability of usable condition ‘E’ stock.
F      UNSERVICEABLE (REPARABLE)        Economically reparable materiel which requires repair,
                                        overhaul, or reconditioning; includes reparable items which
                                        are radioactively contaminated.
G      UNSERVICEABLE (INCOMPLETE)       Materiel requiring additional parts or components to
                                        complete the end time prior to issue.
H      UNSERVICEABLE (CONDEMNED)        Materiel which has been determined to be unserviceable
                                        and does not meet repair criteria; includes condemned
                                        items which are radioactively contaminated; Type I shelf-
                                        life materiel that has passed the expiration date; and Type
                                        II shelf-life materiel that has passed expiration date and
                                        cannot be extended. (NOTE: Classify obsolete and excess
                                        materiel to its proper condition before consigning to the
                                        DRMO. Do not classify materiel in Supply Condition ‘H’
                                        unless it is truly unserviceable and does not meet repair
                                        criteria.)



                                                                                          23
                      DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                               ENCLOSURE (3)


 CODE      TITLE                                   EXPLANATION

 I         NOT ASSIGNED                            Reserved for future DoD assignment.
 J         SUSPENDED (IN STOCK)                    Materiel in stock which has been suspended from issue
                                                   pending condition classification or analysis, where the true
                                                   condition is not known. Includes shelf-life Type II materiel
                                                   that has reached the expiration date pending inspection,
                                                   test, or restoration.
 K         SUSPENDED (RETURNS)                     Materiel returned from customers or users and awaiting
                                                   condition classification.
 L         SUSPENDED (LITIGATION)                  Materiel held pending litigation or negotiation with
                                                   contractors or common carriers.
 M         SUSPENDED (IN WORK)                     Materiel identified on inventory control record but which
                                                   has been turned over to a maintenance facility or contractor
                                                   for processing.
 N         SUSPENDED (AMMUNITION                   Ammunition stocks suspended from issue except for
           SUITABLE FOR EMERGENCY                  emergency combat use.
           COMBAT USE ONLY)
 O         NOT ASSIGNED                            Reserved for future DoD assignment.
 P         UNSERVICEABLE                           Materiel determined to be unserviceable, uneconomically
           (RECLAMATION)                           reparable as a result of physical inspection, teardown, or
                                                   engineering decision. Item contains serviceable
                                                   components or assemblies to be reclaimed.
 Q1        SUSPENDED (PRODUCT QUALITY              Potential and confirmed product quality deficiency
           DEFICIENCY)                             related materiel which is prohibited for use within DoD
                                                   and prohibited for reutilization screening. Includes
                                                   product quality deficiency exhibits returned by
                                                   customers/users as directed by the IMM due to technical
                                                   deficiencies reported by Product Quality Deficiency
                                                   Report. Exhibits require technical or engineering analysis
                                                   to determine cause of failure to perform in accordance with
                                                   specifications. Includes product quality deficient materiel
                                                   identified by SF 368, Product Quality Deficiency Report;
                                                   DD Form 1225, Storage Quality Control Report; SF 364,
                                                   Supply Discrepancy Report (Security Assistance only); or
                                                   authorized electronic equivalent.




1 SCC Q not implemented by Navy. Navy implementation deferred to their Enterprise Resource Planning
system modernization effort.


                                                                                                     24
                     DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                              ENCLOSURE (3)


CODE      TITLE                                EXPLANATION

R         SUSPENDED (RECLAIMED ITEMS,          Assets turned in by reclamation activities which do not
          AWAITING CONDITION                   have the capability (e.g., skills, manpower, or test
          DETERMINATION)                       equipment) to determine the materiel condition. Actual
                                               condition will be determined prior to induction into
                                               maintenance activities for repair/modification.
S         UNSERVICEABLE (SCRAP)                Materiel that has no value except for its basic materiel
                                               content. No stock will be recorded as on hand in Supply
                                               Condition Code ‘S’. This code is used only on transactions
                                               involving shipments to DRMOs. Materiel will not be
                                               transferred to Supply Condition Code ‘S’ prior to turn-in to
                                               DRMOs if materiel is recorded in Supply Condition Codes
                                               ‘A’ through ‘H’ at the time materiel is determined excess.
                                               Materiel identified by NSN will not be identified by this
                                               supply condition code.
T, U      NOT ASSIGNED                         Reserved for future DoD assignment.
V         Unserviceable (waste military        Waste military munitions will be assigned Code ‘V’ only
          munitions)                           under the authority of a designated DoD or Service
                                               designated disposition authority. The waste munitions
                                               must meet criteria of waste munitions under the
                                               Environmental Protection Agency Military Munitions Rule
                                               Implementation Policy, be safe to store and ship based on
                                               DoD Explosive Safety Board/Department of
                                               Transportation criteria and have a current serviceability
                                               inspection. (NOTE: SCC ‘V’ assets are not authorized for
                                               turn-in to DRMO. The Services are responsible for
                                               appropriate disposal of SCC ‘V’ assets.)
W 2, X,   NOT ASSIGNED                         Reserved for future DoD assignment.
Y, Z




                               DISPOSAL CONDITION CODES


NUMBER OF CHARACTERS:            One

TYPE OF CODE:                        Numeric




                                                                                                 25
                DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                         ENCLOSURE (3)

EXPLANATION:                     Assigned by DRMO to accurately describe the materiel physical
                                 condition based on inspection of materiel at time of receipt. DoD
                                 4160.21-M is the authoritative source for the disposal condition
                                 code portion of the Federal condition code.



  CODE    DEFINITION

    1     New. Property which is in new condition or unused condition and can be used
          immediately without modifications or repairs.

    4     Usable. Property which shows some wear, but can be used without significant repair.

    7     Repairable. Property which is unusable in its current condition but can be economically
          repaired.

    X     Salvage. Property which has value in excess of its basic materiel content but repair or
          rehabilitation is impractical and/or uneconomical.

    S     Scrap. Property which has no value except for its basic materiel content.




                                                                                                    26
DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                         ENCLOSURE (4)

 SUPPLY DISCREPANCY REPORT (SDR) – SF 364




                                                                    27
DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                         ENCLOSURE (4)




                                                                    28
                          DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                   ENCLOSURE (5)



                                              As of February 11, 2009

                                       Code Lists for SDR Reporting
                       DoD 4000.25-M, Defense Logistics Management System (DLMS)
                    DLAI 4140.55, AR 735-11-2 SECNAVINST 4355.18A, AFJMAN 23-215,
                                     Reporting of Supply Discrepancies


                                    TYPICAL SHIPPING AND PACKAGING
                                          DISCREPANCY CODES

The following codes are used to provide a description of the discrepant condition. Multiple codes may be used on a
single report. Preprinted codes on the face of the SF 364 may be supplemented from this list of codes. These codes
are authorized for use in all formats of SDR reporting. Use of the expanded list of codes is encouraged to clearly
identify the discrepant situation and reduce the need for narrative descriptions.

CONDITION OF MATERIAL

C1      In a condition other than shown on supply document or on the supporting inspection/test certificate (if
        hazardous material use code H1)
C2      Expired shelf life item (if hazardous material use code H5)
C3     Damaged U.S. Postal Service shipment. (Security Assistance customers are authorized to use this code for all
       types of damaged shipments.)
C4      Material received stripped of parts or components (cannibalized). Applicable to material returns or repairs
            only.
C5      Incomplete item received. Do not use for incomplete sets/kits/outfits. See discrepancy S9.

SUPPLY DOCUMENTATION

D1     Supply documentation not received with material.
D2     Supply documentation illegible or mutilated.
D3     Supply documentation incomplete, improper, or without authority. Use only when receipt cannot be properly
       processed.

D4     Material Inspection and Receiving Report/Receiving Report (DD 250 or equivalent) omitted.
D5     Transportation-specific documentation discrepancy (select specific detail-level code if applicable)
D501   Special Handling Data/Certification, DD Form 1387-2, omitted.
D502   Special Handling Data/Certification, DD Form 1387-2, incomplete or incorrect.
D503   Transportation Control and Movement Document (TCMD), DD Form 1384, omitted.
D504   TCMD, DD Form 1384, incomplete or incorrect.
D505   Shipper’s Declaration for Dangerous Goods omitted.
D506   Shipper’s Declaration for Dangerous Goods incomplete or incorrect.

BILLING/FINANCIAL DISCREPANCIES (SECURITY ASSISTANCE ONLY)

B1     Requisitioned material received. No record of billing.
B2     Duplicate billing.
B3     Wrong amount billed.
F1     Financial discrepancy involving Security Assistance surcharge.

HAZARDOUS MATERIAL




                                                                                                                29
                            DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                     ENCLOSURE (5)


H1      Hazardous item in a condition other than shown on supply document or on the supporting inspection/test
        certificate
H2      Hazardous item in storage damaged or requires repair
H3      Lack of a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) in Hazardous Material Information Resource System (HMIRS)
H4      Non-radioactive item classified as radioactive, or non-hazardous item classified as hazardous
H5      Expired hazardous shelf life item

LUMBER

L1      Moisture exceeds allowable percentage.
L2      Not treated in accordance with specification.
L3      Product off grade.
L4      Improper size.
L5      Improper tally.
L6      Improper or no grade mark on product.
L7      Rotten product.
L8      Splits, excessive wane, scant, or not end trimmed (one or all).

MISDIRECTED

M1      Material improperly addressed and shipped to wrong activity.

OVERAGE, DUPLICATE, OR RECEIPT OF CANCELED MATERIAL

O1      Quantity received is more than quantity shown on the supply document.
O2      Quantity received is more than quantity requested plus variance. (other than unit of issue or unit of pack).
O3      Quantity duplicates another shipment.
O4      Material received after cancellation.
O5      Concealed overage discovered in a sealed shipping container.
O6      Overage due to unit of issue/unit of pack incompatibility. Use only when requisition specified no unit of
           issue/unit of pack variance.

PACKAGING DISCREPANCY

P1      Improper preservation.
     P101 Cleaning inadequate, incorrect, or omitted.
     P102 Preservative inadequate, incorrect, or omitted.
     P103 Barrier material inadequate, incorrect, or omitted.
     P104 Unit pack cushioning inadequate, incorrect, or omitted.
     P105 Unit container inadequate, incorrect, omitted or oversized.
     P106 Desiccant incorrect, improperly located, or omitted.
     P107 Tape/closure of unit container incorrect or inadequate.
     P108 Hazardous materials not removed as required.
     P109 Improper preservation of hazardous materials (includes ammunitions/ explosives).
     P110 Level of protection excessive or inadequate.
     P111 Minimum protection not applied (material returns).
     P112 Non-conformance to specified requirements for preservation (explanation required).
     P113 Electrostatic/electromagnetic device preservation inadequate or omitted.
     P114 Concealed preservation defect found in storage (retail only).

P2      Improper packing.




                                                                                                                       30
                           DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                    ENCLOSURE (5)

     P201Container inadequate, incorrect, or oversized.
     P202 Intermediate container inadequate, incorrect, oversized, or omitted.
     P203Exterior container inadequate, incorrect, oversized, or omitted.
     P204 Blocking and bracing inadequate, incorrect, or omitted.
     P205 Cushioning inadequate, incorrect, or omitted.
     P206 Level of protection excessive or inadequate.
     P207 Container deteriorated.
     P208 Skids incorrect or omitted.
     P209 Improper packing of hazardous materials (includes ammunitions/explosives).
     P210 Non-conformance to specified requirements for packing (explanation required).
     P211 Improper foam-in-place.
     P212 Reusable container not used or improperly prepared.
     P213 Closure incorrect or inadequate.
     P214 Concealed packing defect found in storage (retail only).
     P215 Non-conformance to specified requirements for wood packaging material (WPM)

P3          Improper markings.

     P301   Identification markings omitted, incomplete, incorrectly located, or not legible.
     P302   Improper marking of hazardous materials (includes ammunitions/explosives).
     P303   Labels omitted or improperly affixed.
     P304   Contract data omitted, incomplete, incorrectly located, or not legible.
     P305   Precautionary or handling markings omitted, incomplete, or not legible.
     P306   Shelf-life markings omitted, incorrect, or not legible.
     P307   Bar code markings omitted, or not legible.
     P308   Incorrect lot number.
     P309   Set or assembly markings omitted.
     P310   Address incorrect or not legible.
     P311   Non-conformance to specified requirements for marking (explanation required).
     P312   Electrostatic/electromagnetic device markings inadequate or omitted.
     P313   Packing list omitted or incorrectly located.
     P314   Passive RFID tag is missing
     P315   Passive RFID tag is visibly damaged and unreadable
     P316   Passive RFID tag is present but unreadable (not visibility damaged)
     P317   Passive RFID tag read has no corresponding advance shipment notification
     P318   Passive RFID tag read duplicates previously used tag identification
     P319    Military Shipment Label (MSL), DD Form 1387, omitted; no Transportation Control Number (TCN).
     P320    MSL, DD Form 1387, improperly affixed, incorrect, or incomplete.


P4     Improper unitization (includes palletization and containerization).

     P401   Cargo not unitized.
     P402   Shrink/stretch wrap inadequate or omitted.
     P403   Strapping inadequate or omitted.
     P404   Multiple consignees in single consignee consolidation container.
     P405   Protective covering/wrapping inadequate, improper, or omitted.
     P406   Contents of multipack container inadequately packaged, stuffed or missing unit packs.

PRODUCT QUALITY (ITEM) DEFICIENCY (SECURITY ASSISTANCE ONLY)

Q1     Product quality deficiency.
Q2     Quality deficiency, contractual noncompliance.
Q3     Design deficiency, item requires change in design.



                                                                                                             31
                            DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                     ENCLOSURE (5)

Q4      Contracting deficiency, specification and/or technical data deficient.
Q7      Safety hazard.
Q8      Latent defect.

QUALITY DEFICIENCY RECEIPTS/STOCK SCREENING (DISTRIBUTION DEPOT ONLY)

Q11     Returned or stock screen item, PDQR exhibit deficiency
Q22     New procurement receipt, customer return, redistribution order or stock screen item quality deficiency,
        contractual non-compliance
Q33     Returned, redistribution order, or stock screened item suspected material deficiency (DLA CRII items only)
Q44     New procurement receipt, customer return, redistribution order or stock screen item contracting deficiency,
for
        specification and/or technical data deficiency
Q55     Item under investigation
Q66     Customer return or stock screen item failed under use
Q77     New receipt, customer return, redistribution order to stock screen item identified as a Critical Safety Item
(CSI)
Q99     New receipt item received for First Article Testing


SHORTAGE OR NONRECEIPT

S1      Quantity received less than quantity indicated on supply documentation.
S2      Quantity received is less than quantity requested minus variance (other than unit of issue or unit of pack).
S3      Total non-receipt of U.S. Postal Service shipment.
S4      Total non-receipt; not transportation related. (U.S. only)
S5      Total nonreceipt (Security Assistance only).
S6      Shortage due to unit of issue/quantity unit pack incompatibility. Use only when requisition specified no unit
         of issue/quantity unit pack variance.
S7      Shortage or non-receipt of an item in a multipack or sealed shipping container.
S8      Concealed shortage discovered upon opening a sealed vendor's pack. Not applicable to Security Assistance.
S9      Incomplete sets/kits/outfits. Do not use to report cannibalization of SSRI, COEI, or BII. See discrepancy
            code C4.

TECHNICAL DATA MARKINGS (NAME PLATES, LOG BOOKS, OPERATING HANDBOOKS, SPECIAL
INSTRUCTIONS)

T1      Technical data markings missing.
T2      Technical data markings illegible or mutilated.
T3      Precautionary operational markings missing.
T4      Inspection data missing or incomplete.
T5      Serviceability operating data missing or incomplete.
T6      Warranty data missing.
T7      Missing part number on bare item.
T8      Incorrect part number.
T9      Operating handbooks, log books, and/or special instructions missing.

UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION

U01     Unique identification data on label missing, damaged or unreadable.
U02     Unique identification data on item missing, damaged or unreadable.
U03     Unique identification data on supply documentation missing, damaged or unreadable.
U04     Unique identification data not provided on shipping notice.




                                                                                                                       32
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                  ENCLOSURE (5)

U05   Non-conformance to unique identification requirements under terms of contract.
U06   Multiple containers without separate unique identification data listings.
U07   Mismatch between unique identification data on item and label.
U08   Mismatch between unique identification data on item and shipping documentation.
U09   Mismatch between unique identification data on item and due-in or shipping notice.
U10   Mismatched or unique identification discovered upon opening a sealed pack.
U11   Material unidentifiable; stock number missing or damaged.
U12   Duplicate unique identification.

INCORRECT ITEM

W1    Incorrect item received.
W2    Unacceptable substitute received.
W3    Incorrect item received, but not identifiable to an NSN or part number.
W4    Misidentified item received.
W5    Mixed stock received.
W6    Incorrect item discovered upon opening a sealed vendor's pack. Not applicable to Security Assistance.

OTHER DISCREPANCIES

Z1    Other discrepancy - see remarks.
Z2    Repetitive discrepancy. Define…two, three or more? Must use in combination with other codes or describe
       in remarks. Not applicable to Security Assistance.
Z3    Distribution Depot receipt not due-in.
Z4    No record exists for document number cited on supply document. Not used by distribution depot/not
       applicable to Security Assistance.




                                                                                                              33
  DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                           ENCLOSURE (6)

Storage Quality Control Report (SQCR) – DD Form 1225




                                                                      34
                          DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                   ENCLOSURE (6)


                       INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING DD FORM 1225

Complete DD Form 1225 as follows for reimbursable SR actions. The numbers to the left of the text correspond
to the block number on the form. The acronyms in the parentheses indicate the organization responsible for the
entry, i.e., DD (currently renamed to DLA Distribution Center), ICP/DSC.

1. (DD) DATE GENERATED: Enter the date the form was prepared.

2. (DD) REPORT NUMBER: Provide Report Number, consisting of the DoDAAC of the DD that is
    reparing the form, followed by a dash (-), and a locally assigned four-digit code.

3. (DD) MANAGING ACTIVITY RIC/ADDRESS: Provide the RIC and address of the managing ICP/DSC
    SR coordinator (go to https://ddcnet.ddc.dla.mil/distribution/qa_cosis.htm).

4. (DD) REPORTING ACTIVITY/SUBMITTER ADDRESS: Provide the address of the preparing
    DD/organization.

5. (DD) NATIONAL STOCK NUMBER: Provide the NSN (or local number if no NSN) of the item.

6. (DD) TYPE OF INSPECTION: Enter the appropriate type of inspection. When it is “OTHER,” explain
    in Block 35.

7. (DD) NOMENCLATURE: Enter short nomenclature.

8. (DD) CAGE and PART/MODEL NUMBER: Enter the CAGE and part or model number.

9. (DD) SERIAL NUMBER: Enter serial number for report on a single item if appropriate. If there is no
    serial number, leave blank. List serial numbers for multiple items in Block 35.

10. (DD) CONDITION CODE: Enter the supply condition code of the materiel as shown on record.

11. (DD) LOT/BATCH/CONTROL NO.: Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

12. (DD) EXPIRATION DATE: Indicate, as appropriate (shelf life, storage serviceability, etc.), otherwise
    leave blank.

13. (DD) UNIT PRICE: Enter the unit price of serviceable item from FLIS.

14. (DD) UNIT OF ISSUE: Enter the unit of issue.

15. (DD) CONTRACTOR CONSIDERED LIABLE?: Enter “YES” when the item is in an unopened vendor
    pack and the level of pack is less than the level marked on the container or when the item is in an
    unopened vendor pack and the materiel is not packaged as required by the ICP/DSC (serviceable materiel
    only). Otherwise, enter “NO.”




                                                                                                                 35
                          DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                    ENCLOSURE (6)
16. (DD) CONTRACTOR or PACKED BY: Enter the name of the contractor, including CAGE (serviceable
    materiel only). Otherwise, leave blank.

17. (DD) CONTRACT NUMBER: Enter the contract number (serviceable materiel only). Otherwise, leave
    blank.

18. (DD) DATE OF MANUFACTURE: Enter the date of manufacture if known (serviceable materiel only).
     Otherwise, leave blank.

19a. (DD) DATE OF PACK: Enter the date of pack. If not known, enter “UNK.”

19b. (DD) DATE OF LAST COSIS INSPECTION: Enter the date the last COSIS inspection was performed.
     If not known, enter “UNK.”

20. (DD) METHOD OF PRESERATION: Enter the method of preservation (i.e., 10, 41, 55).

21. (DD) LEVEL OF PACKING: Enter level of packing (i.e., A, B, or Minimal Military Packing).

22. (DD) CONDITION OF PACKAGING: Indicate, as appropriate. If unsatisfactory, explain in Block 35.

23. (DD) ADEQUATE MARKING: Indicate, as appropriate.

24a. (DD) SAMPLES SHIPPED TO LAB: Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

24b. (DD) QUANTITY SHIPPED: Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

24c. (DD) DATE SHIPPED: Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

25. (DD) STORAGE QUALITY LEVEL (SQL): Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

26. (DD) NUMBER OF SAMPLES EXAMINED: Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

27a. (DD) LOT SIZE: Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

27b. (DD) LOT TYPE: Indicate, as appropriate, otherwise leave blank.

28. (DD) SERVICEABILITY STANDARD: Enter “ROUTINE COSIS” or the number of the storage
    serviceability standard, as appropriate.

29. (DD) RECLASSIFICATION OF SUPPLIES INSPECTED: Enter the total quantity on record for the
    NSN shown in Block 5, with the supply condition code (CC) shown in Block 10. Provide resulting CC
    after inspection.

30. (DD) REPAIR COST: Enter the cost to return serviceable, deteriorated materiel to serviceable condition.
     This cost includes maintenance/restoration actions other than packaging. If unknown, enter “0.” If the
    materiel is not deteriorated or it is in storage as an unserviceable Depot Level Reparable, enter “0.”

31a. (DD) PACKAGING LABOR COST: Enter the estimated cost of packaging labor needed to return the
    materiel to issuable condition.

31b. (DD) PACKAGING MATERIALS COST: Enter the estimated cost of packaging materials and
    containers needed to return the materiel to issuable condition.

32. (DD) TOTAL COST: Enter the total estimated cost to return the materiel to issuable condition.




                                                                                                              36
                           DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                    ENCLOSURE (6)

33. (DD) NAME OF ACTIVITY WHICH CAN PERFORM REPAIRS: If Block 30 shows anything other
    than “0,” enter the name of the activity. Otherwise, enter “N/A.”

34. (DD) AUTHORITY FOR INSPECTION: Enter the message number for any special inspections;
    otherwise, enter “ROUTINE COSIS.”

35. (DD) FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS: Provide the total quantity on hand for the NSN shown
    in Block 5 and the CC shown in Block 10, and the total quantity recommended for Special COSIS.
    Provide additional information to explain the scope of the work to the ICP/DSC. Describe how the
    discrepant materiel is currently packaged, the discrepancies found, and the proposed packaging. Enter the
    stock number and quantity of required containers and identify any excess containers that will result from
    this action. Provide any additional information required to explain any of the information above. If
    additional room is required, continue on the reverse side of the form or on a separate continuation page.
    Indicate if photographs are available.

36a. (DD) NAME OF PREPARER: Enter the name individual preparing this report.

36b. (DD) VOICE TELEPHONE NUMBER: Enter the telephone number of the individual preparing this
    report.

36c. (DD) FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER: Enter the FAX telephone number of the individual preparing this
    report.

37a. (DD) NAME OF SR COORDINATOR: Enter the name of the local SR Coordinator.

37b. (DD) VOICE TELEPHONE NUMBER: Enter the telephone number of the local SR Coordinator.

37c. (DD) FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER: Enter the FAX telephone number of the local SR Coordinator.

38. (ICP/DSC)ICP/DSC INSTRUCTIONS: Provide the approval or disapproval of the proposed action. If
    approved, DD shall assign appropriate Internal Order Number (ION) (assigned by DLA Distribution-J8).
    If disapproved, provide full rationale for the disapproval, status of the affected materiel, and/or disposition
    instructions. Continue on the reverse side if necessary.

39. (ICP/DSC)NAME OF ICP/DSC POINT OF CONTACT: Enter the name of the ICP/DSC SR
    Coordinator.

40. (ICP/DSC)DATE SENT: Enter the date the ICP/DSC completes the form to forward to the original
    preparer.

41. (DD) NAME OF ACTIVITY POINT OF CONTACT: After the work has been completed, the DD POC
    signs to certify that the work has been completed.

42.(DD) DATE SENT: Enter the date the DD POC signs to certify that the work has been completed.

________________________________________________________________________________

                                            ITEM DATA CHANGES

Follow the above instructions for completing the DD Form 1225, except as noted below:

a. Block 28, indicate N/A.




                                                                                                                      37
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                  ENCLOSURE (6)
b. Block 29, show total on hand by condition code after inspection. Account for any discrepancies in
the count in Block 35 (previously misidentified, could not locate, sent to maintenance, etc.).

c. Block 30, indicate N/A.

d. Block 31a, indicate estimated cost of labor needed for the inspection.

e. Block 31b, indicate estimated cost of materials needed for the inspection.

f. Block 33, indicate N/A.

g. Block 34, indicate message number, or requestor’s name.

h. Block 35, show the specific type of special action (i.e., SOU, ASAM, or SOF), and the quantity of
items requiring inspection. The cost of labor will be provided in total hours and total dollars (fully
burdened). Provide additional information as requested in the ICP request document, and any
additional information, such as severity of deterioration, required to explain any of the information
above. If additional room is required, continue on the reverse side of the form or a separate
continuation page. If the inspection results indicate that special COSIS is needed, prepare a special
type COSIS request in accordance with paragraph E5.

    i. Leave Blocks 38 through 42 blank for subsequent ICP processing.

_______________________________________________________________________________

                                     INCIDENT TO SHIPMENT

Follow the above instructions for completing the DD Form 1225, except as noted below:

a. Block 6, check the “OUTBOUND” block.

b. Blocks 11 through 30 leave blank.

c. Block 34 indicate N/A.

d. Block 35, indicate the quantity of items on the MRO and the total number of items requiring
upgraded packaging. The cost of labor will be provided in total hours and total dollars (fully
burdened). Indicate how the materiel is currently packaged and the proposed packaging. Indicate the
NSN and quantity of required containers and any excess serviceable containers that will result from
this action. Provide any additional information required to explain any of the information above. If
additional room is required, continue on the reverse side of the form or on a separate continuation
page.




                                                                                                         38
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                 ENCLOSURE (7)

                                 NAVY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

A. REFERENCES. The following instructions are referenced in this appendix in addition to all
references contained in Stock Readiness DLAI 4145.4:

        NAVSUP P700-CNP Pub 700-Common Naval Packaging
        (https://www.tarp.navsisa.navy.mil/p700.nsf)

        NAVSUPINST 4440.157A Material Turned Into Stores (MTIS), dated 10 May 2005

        NAVAIR 15-01-500 Preservation of Naval Aircraft for Organizational, Intermediate and Depot
        Maintenance Levels.

B. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE. This guidance is applicable to the DLA Distribution; DLA
Distribution Centers with Navy managed and owned stock including BP 28 retail stock, Navy Storage
Activities and the Naval Supply Systems Command (NAVSUP) Weapon Systems Support (WSS). It
applies to classes of supply that are managed by NAVSUP WSS, except Class V, Class VI and Bulk Class
III.

For Navy-specific SDRs, the Navy SDR System (NSDRS) site
(https://applications.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/sdr/) is also available; DoD PKI, login ids and passwords
are required.

C. NAVY Specific Programs

     1. Advanced Traceability and Control (ATAC) Program. ATAC Hubs and Nodes are set up at
strategic Navy and Marine Corps sites to simplify and improve the Naval retrograde turn-in process of
Condition Code “F” repairables.

     2. Container Reuse and Refurbishment Center (CRRC). This program provides field level container
management and provides containers on demand. It provides collection points for reusable containers and
requisition processing of containers. The CRRC sites refurbish containers by: assessing condition,
removing labels, and replacing latches, handles, shock mounts, skid-mates and foam. The CRRC website
to find information, order containers and locate container pick-up sites can be accessed at
https://tarp.navsisa.navy.mil/crrc

    3. Material Turned In To Stores / Excess Offloads (MTIS/Excess Offloads). The MTIS / Excess
Offload Management Program’s primary objective is to return excess Ready For Issue (RFI) Depot Level
Repairables (DLRs) and consumables to stock. It facilitates filling backorders and redistributions while
ensuring that offloaded RFI is properly packaged and required documentation is present.

    4. P700-CNP. The P700/CNP (Common Naval Packaging), which replaced NAVSUP Pub 484,
mandates packaging requirements for all Navy / USMC managed assets. All Navy / USMC packaging data
requirements are online at https://tarp.nasisa.navy.mil/p700.nsf

   5. PHS&T Community of Practice (CoP). This CoP is an online, collaborative tool for the DoD
PHS&T Community. Register and access at http://acc.dau.mil/phs&t

    6. Technical Assistance for Repairables Processing (TARP). The TARP Program was established in


                                                                                                        39
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                 ENCLOSURE (7)


September 2000 to eliminate shipping and handling damage to Navy retrograde, thereby, reducing DLR
repair costs and retrograde lead processing times, and increase inventory accuracy. Access the TARP
Webport at https://tarp.navsisa.navy.mil

    7. Electronic Retrograde Management System (eRMS) for DLRs. eRMS is a NAVSUP WSS /
NAVSUP Business Systems Center (NAVSUP BSC), jointly developed web-based application. The
eRMS Management Program provides asset visibility from “cradle to grave” during the entire transit of the
asset. Register and access at https://mril.navsisa.navy.mil/erms

    8. Wood Packaging Material (WPM). A DoD and internationally mandated program designed to
ensure wood packaging is in compliance. The WPM website is maintained and updated to comply with
expanding DoD/USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) direction in reference to new
international standards affecting both hard and soft woods being shipped worldwide. The site can be used
by all services for policy, training and required reporting. COSIS funding supports WPM remediation.
Access the WPM Compliance website at https://tarp.navsisa.navy.mil/wpm. Please note that DoD PKI is
required to enter this and other sites referenced in this document.

D. NAVY Point of Contacts (POCs)

    1. Navy Stock Readiness inquiries or questions can be sent via email to the following addresses:

       COSIS - cosis.fct@navy.mil

       HAZMAT – hazmat.pkg.fct.@navy.mil

       Shelf Life – shelflife.fct@navy.mil

       Wood Packaging Material – wpm.pm.fct@navy.mil

       Nuclear (X) SMIC - nuclear.xsmicdmil@navy.mil

       PHS&T Team Leader (NRP/N32) – phst.phila.teamlead@navy.mil

       PHS&T Team Leader (NRP/N35) – phst.mech.teamlead@navy.mil

    2. For Disposal / Disposition inquiries, please call the following numbers:

       N32 (NAVSUP WSS) – DSN 442-6152

       N35 (NAVSUP WSS) – DSN 430-3036

       X-SMIC Items (Nuclear) – DSN 430-6128

    3. For MTIS / Receipt SDR inquiries, please call the following numbers:

       MTIS – DSN 442-2063

       N32 Receipt SDR – DSN 442-4858



                                                                                                       40
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                 ENCLOSURE (7)

       N35 Receipt SDR – DSN 430-5946

E. PROCEDURES.

    1. Packaging. At time of receipt the asset coming into a storage facility or supply system shall be
packaged per the contract for new procurements, or appropriate level of the P700-CNP as identified
elsewhere in this document.

        a. All Navy packaging data is online at https://tarp.navsisa.navy.mil/p700.nsf. The three levels of
 packaging defined in the P700-CNP are not in place of Level A, B and Minimal as defined in MIL-STD-
 2073. The applicable users of the packaging levels in the P700-CNP is as follows:

                Level 1 - Afloat Activities & Forward Deployed MALS
                Level 2 - Ashore Activities & Non-Deployed MALS - In Garrison
                Level 3 - New Procurements, Organic & Contractor Commercial Repair Depots

         b. The SA holding the packaged material shall replace reusable containers requiring repair beyond
minor refurbishment. Reusable container replacement is cost reimbursable by the managing ICP.
Containers requiring refurbishment should be sent to the local CRRC for those actions within the CRRC’s
capability, such as, replacement of seals, hardware, humidity indicators, desiccant or skids, minor
corrosion removal and spot painting to include stenciling.

             (1) The Navy operates an active CRRC program to maximize the availability and reuse of
reusable containers. The mission of CRRC is to enhance the visibility and availability of reusable
containers, affording NAVSUP WSS DLRs and high cost material with adequate protection. The CRRCs
are dedicated to the collection, assessment, refurbishment, requisitioning and reporting of Navy owned
reusable shipping containers. Access at https://www.tarp.navicp.navy.mil/crrc.

    2. Receiving Operations.

        a. Receipt from Navy Organizations or Navy Inter-Depot Transfers. Materiel returned from a Navy
customer should pass through the nearest Advanced Traceability and Control (ATAC) site or other
Designated Stock Point / Designated Overhaul Point (DSP/DOP) as specified in the Master Repairable
Item List (MRIL). ATAC personnel package the materiel to meet P700-CNP Level 2 packaging and
forward to the appropriate storage activity (SA). TARP personnel should apply “TARP Certified Ready-
For-Issue (RFI) Asset” tape to all packages, which eliminates the need for the DLA Distribution Center to
inspect or repackage.

        b. For CC "F" materiel. Properly packaged materiel received at the DLA Distribution Center from
the ATAC may be placed directly into storage. Materiel received at the DLA Distribution Center that did
not pass through the ATAC shall be repackaged to P700-CNP Level 1 requirements. If the DLA
Distribution Center identifies packaging/marking errors, they should submit a Packaging SDR to the
materiel owner (NAVSUP WSS).

        c. For CC ‘A’ materiel. CC ‘A’ materiel is received under the Navy’s MTIS program. For
material received with “TARP Certified Ready-For-Issue (RFI) Asset” tape in place, inspection and
repackaging is not required. If a DLA Distribution Center receives a non-TARP taped item, it will need to
be inspected and repackaged as follows:




                                                                                                          41
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                 ENCLOSURE (7)
             (1) If the materiel’s packaging has been physically damaged and the DLA Distribution Center
is confident that the materiel is in a serviceable condition, repackage to P700-CNP Level 3 packaging.

            (2) If the materiel’s packaging has been physically damaged and the DLA Distribution Center
 cannot visually confirm that the materiel is in a serviceable condition, the DLA Distribution Center shall
 downgrade the materiel to CC ‘F’, and package to P700-CNP Level 1 packaging, submit an SDR to the
 material owner (NAVSUP WSS).

   3. SR Reimbursable Expenditures. In addition to the guidelines in the basic document, a separate
document will be provided for each type of recurring work, such as Packaging MTIS SDR by the
MTIS SDR Coordinator and reimbursable COSIS.

    4. Retaining Reusable Containers.

        a. The following guidelines apply to reusable shipping and storage containers:

            (1) All empty containers are to be placed on or banded or stretch-wrapped to pallets in a
manner that will allow visual inspection of them at the time of transfer to the CRRC or depot. The
generating SA will certify that the containers are empty on the DD Form 1348-1A / comparable transfer
documentation.

                  (a) The containers are then sent to the nearest Container Reuse and Refurbishment Center
(CRRC) or the nearest DLA Distribution Center. Additional guidance and POCs may be found at:
https://tarp.navsisa.navy.mil/crrc.




                                                                                                        42
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                  ENCLOSURE (8)

                                     ARMY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

A. Purpose and Scope. This enclosure provides supplemental Army unique requirements for the execution
of the Army SR and COSIS Programs for all classes of supply except Class III (Bulk), Class V, Class VI, and
Class VIII.

B. Packaging. Unless otherwise directed by the Inventory Control Point (ICP) Packaging Office,
materiel will be stored in the packaging prescribed by FLIS. New/overhauled materiel will be stored in the
unopened vendor pack. Commanders will ensure that materiel is stored consistent with the Item Type
Storage Code (ITSC) in FLIS unless a deviation is approved in writing by the ICP.

C. Receiving Operations. Receipt of depot level reparable customer returned materiel.

    a. Upon receipt of an Army reparable customer return in which the documentation states the
item(s) is serviceable, but the item is not in the original vendor pack and appears visibly used, worn,
damaged or ESD compromised, reclassify the material to CC-F. Submit an info-only SDR to the ICP.

    b. For Army non-reparable customer returns in which the documentation states the item(s) is
serviceable but the item is not in the original vendor pack and appears visibly used, worn, damaged or
ESD compromised, reclassify the material to CC-H. Submit an info-only SDR to the ICP.

D. Exercising and testing requirement.

    a. The ICP will identify the appropriate requirements and the frequency for exercising and testing
equipment.

    b. The DLA Distribution Center will perform routine visual inspections on all major end items in
storage in accordance with the requirements of the basic instruction. Frequency of inspections will be
in accordance with paragraph E. 2.a. of the basic instruction and will annotate any discrepancies using
the Storage Quality Control Report (SQCR) (DD Form 1225). Collocated Army Maintenance Depot
personnel will be contacted for determination as to the true condition code of the major item.

     c. The DLA Distribution Center will provide collocated Army Maintenance Depot personnel access to
equipment in storage so the Army personnel may exercise the equipment as required in accordance with
instructions specified by the managing ICP.

     d. The DLA Distribution Center will provide collocated Army Maintenance Depot personnel access to
test equipment in storage so the Army personnel may test the equipment in accordance with instructions
specified by the managing ICP and mark equipment with the date tested and the date that re-testing is due
so that personnel can easily identify ready-for-issue equipment.

    e. The DLA Distribution Center will prepare requests for reimbursement for labor costs associated
with providing access to exercising and testing materiel using the SQCR. All work that the DLA
Distribution Center completes will be identified as “directed by the ICP”.

    f. Major and Secondary Items (Army Materiel only). To determine if an item is major or secondary,
locate the Materiel Category Code (MAT-CAT-STR-CD). If the second position is a two (2), the item is a
secondary item. Any other code in the second position indicates that the item is a major item.




                                                                                                             43
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                  ENCLOSURE (8)
E. Depot Classification Mission (DCM)

    a. The ICP will identify the types and condition of items that need to be inspected.

    b. The DLA Distribution Center will pick, unpack and stage selected items for inspections.

    c. At the end of the inspection, the DLA Distribution Center will repack and move selected items back
    to storage.

     d. The DLA Distribution Center will process all reclassification/re-identifications in DSS and provide
the ICP the results on Storage Quality Control Report, DD Form 1225.




                                                                                                              44
                         DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                  ENCLOSURE (9)

                                  AIR FORCE SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

A. Purpose and Scope. This appendix provides supplemental AF specific requirements for the
execution for all levels of packaging and supply.

B. Applicability and Scope. This enclosure provides supplemental AF specific requirements for the
execution for all levels of packaging and supply. Each MAJCOM will appoint a Stock Readiness point of
contact (POC) to work with the AFMC Stock Readiness Coordinator. The MAJCOM POC will establish a
Stock Readiness program at their installations.

C. Packaging.

    1. Reparable materiel, assigned CC “F” received without the proper packaging, shall be minimally
packaged per ICP to prevent further deterioration while in storage. Minimal packaging entails providing
physical and mechanical protection by wrapping and cushioning as needed and place in a fiberboard box.
Large items requiring wooden containers can be secured to a warehouse pallet and protected with shrink-
wrap or barrier to prevent further deterioration to a lower condition code. All ESD items shall be
packaged to Level A requirements as specified by the ICP packaging requirements.

    1. Items returned from maintenance organizations in serviceable CC ‘A’ must be properly preserved
and packaged in accordance with ICP packaging requirements as defined in SPIRES at
https://spires.wpafb.af.mil/sindex.cfm.

     2. For materiel assigned serviceable or unserviceable condition codes, the use of the next larger size
fast pack, Type I (Vertical Star Pack) or Type II (Folding Convoluted Pack) is authorized for PHS&T
when there is no decrease in any of the container dimensions. The item must be packed sufficiently to fill
up any cavity in the container. For transportation priority three, the specified fast pack shall be acquired
and used unless the item was returned to stock in the next larger size fast pack. The supporting activity
must requisite the ICP specified fast pack.

D. Customer Service Support

    1. The supporting activity, upon receipt of a Materiel Release Order (MRO) from the Air Force
Global Logistics Support Center (AFGLSC), shall deliver requisitioned materiel to the specified location
on the document. Items shall return to stock via MRO to the central receiving for storage. AFGLSC
Packaging Specialists may request that the supporting activity construct AFGLSC-developed prototype
containers and deliver to the ICP designated location.

     2. The supporting activity upon request from the AFLGSC Packaging Specialists shall provide access
to a designated/staging warehouse location(s) to resolve and verify packaging problems, SDRs, DD Forms
1225, and to plan/correct new or existing packaging data.

E. Receipt of Material Shipped from a Maintenance Facility.

    1. The Air Logistics Center (depot maintenance organization) and the supporting activity may
negotiate an agreement to skip bare item KCC and use the condition tag and attached documentation as the
basis for processing the receipt (maintenance turn-in). This precludes the DLA Distribution Center’s
receiving unit from opening containers that need to remain sealed. When this agreement is reached, the
DLA Distribution Center is relieved from responsibility from ensuring the asset in the container is in fact


                                                                                                          45
                        DLAI 4145.4/AR 740.3/AFMAN 23-125(IP)/NAVSUPINST 4400.100A/MCO 4450.15A
                                                                                 ENCLOSURE (9)
the item described on tag and the

documentation. This becomes the responsibility of the depot maintenance organization to ensure the item
turned-in is the item on the documentation. This does not relieve the DLA Distribution Center from
processing the receipt correctly using the documentation on the container.

F. Management of AF Records. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

G. Accessibility:

Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for
downloading or ordering.

H. Publication Release: There are no restrictions on releasing this publication.




                                                                                                      46
