BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE MANUAL 36-2643
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    1 MAY 2013

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                       AIR FORCE MENTORING PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1DI                                           Certified by: AF/A1D (Mr. Russell Frasz)
                                                                                     Pages: 19
Supersedes:    AFI 36-3401, 01 June 2000


This publication implements AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development. It provides
guidance on how to establish an effective mentoring program for Airmen at various stages of
their careers. This Manual applies to all Airmen—officer, enlisted, civilian, Air National Guard
(ANG), and Air Force Reserve (AFR). This publication may be supplemented at any level, but
all Supplements that directly implement this Manual must be routed to AF/A1DI for
coordination prior to certification and approval. It requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, System of Records Notices (SORN) F033 AF
B, Privacy Act Request File, and F036 AF PC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS) applies and is
available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program,
sets guidelines for collecting, safeguarding, maintaining, accessing, amending, and disseminating
personal data kept in systems of records to comply with the Privacy Program. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                               AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It contains
information from AFI 36-3401, Air Force Mentoring, and provides detailed guidance on how
mentoring is used as a valuable element supporting the Total Force Development concept. This
Manual explains mentoring program objectives and benefits, identifies guidelines and
expectations of mentors and mentees, and provides a Mentoring Toolkit. It replaces AFI 36-
3401 of the same name.

       1.     Scope. .....................................................................................................................    3
       2.     Background. ...........................................................................................................         3
       3.     Definition. ..............................................................................................................      3
       4.     Program Benefits. ..................................................................................................            4
       5.     Program Objectives. ...............................................................................................             4
       6.     Mentor Guidelines. ................................................................................................             4
       7.     Mentor Expectations. .............................................................................................              5
       8.     Mentee Guidelines. ................................................................................................             5
       9.     Mentee Expectations. .............................................................................................              6

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                7

Attachment 2—MENTORING TOOLKIT                                                                                                               10
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                         3



1. Scope.
   1.1. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) is the OPR for
   the Air Force Mentoring Program and establishes guidance as reflected in this Air Force
   Manual.
   1.2. Headquarters Air Force, Major Commands (MAJCOMs), and local units will facilitate
   the mentoring process to provide Airmen with the ability to fully develop. Air Force leaders
   are expected to ensure Airmen are provided mentoring opportunities as described in this
   Manual.
2. Background.
   2.1. Mentoring is an essential ingredient in developing well-rounded, professional, and
   competent future leaders. The overall goal of mentoring is to help Airmen (civilian, enlisted,
   and officer) reach their full potential, thereby enhancing the professionalism of the Air Force
   (reference AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development).
   2.2. The Air Force fosters a mentoring culture by encouraging and expecting Airmen to be
   mentors and mentees. This culture enhances morale and discipline and improves the
   operational environment while maintaining respect for authority.
   2.3. Mentoring helps Airmen prepare for increased responsibilities, but it is not a promotion
   enhancement program.
   2.4. Key to the mentoring process is the direct involvement of commanders, directors, and
   supervisors in the professional development of their people. They must continually
   challenge them to improve.
   2.5. Mentoring promotes professional development at every echelon and activity. Mentoring
   is an ongoing process for building a professional relationship that fosters communication
   concerning careers, competencies, behavior, and organizational missions. AFI 36-2909,
   Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, and AFI 36-703, Civilian Conduct and
   Responsibility, set forth rules regarding maintaining professional relationships.
   2.6. Airmen have the option of selecting mentors using My Development Plan (MyDP),
   Attachment 2, A2.2.1.
3. Definition.
   3.1. Mentorship is a relationship in which a person with greater experience and wisdom
   guides another person to develop both personally and professionally. This relationship will
   help achieve mission success and motivate Airmen to achieve their career objectives.
   3.2. Mentoring promotes a climate of inclusion that can help foster and develop the diverse
   strengths, perspectives, and capabilities of all Airmen. Air Force capabilities and warfighting
   competencies are enhanced by diversity among its personnel (reference AFPD 36-70,
   Diversity).
 4                                                                  AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


4. Program Benefits.
     4.1. Mentoring is an inherent responsibility of leadership. The direct involvement of
     military and civilian leaders in the professional development of their people is essential to the
     mentoring process.
     4.2. Mentoring helps prepare Airmen for increased responsibilities as they progress in their
     careers. Some specific benefits are:
        4.2.1. Improved morale and unit cohesion.
        4.2.2. Enhanced professional and work-related personal development.
        4.2.3. Increased mastery of the institutional and occupational competencies.
        4.2.4. Enhanced capacity to translate core values and strategies into productive actions.
        4.2.5. Greater engagement and retention of Airmen with the right competencies needed
        in support of Air Force requirements.
5. Program Objectives.
     5.1. Create an environment promoting work-related personal and professional growth
     through the Air Force Continuum of Learning (CoL) to enhance institutional and
     occupational competencies.
     5.2. Offer new Airmen familiarization with the organization’s mission.
     5.3. Provide a catalyst for leaders and subordinates to leverage tactical, operational, and
     strategic knowledge.
6. Mentor Guidelines.
     6.1. Mentors are advisors and guides who share knowledge, experiences, and advice in
     helping mentees achieve their career goals. Effective mentoring creates a balanced ongoing
     relationship that focuses on the unique needs of the mentee.
     6.2. Mentors generally perform the following four roles:
        6.2.1. Advisor: The mentor initiates communication and helps the mentee formulate
        career goals.
        6.2.2. Coach: The mentor supports in identifying developmental needs, recommending
        training opportunities, and imparting skills and behaviors.
        6.2.3. Facilitator: The mentor assists in finding resources for problem solving and career
        progression.
        6.2.4. Advocate: The mentor recommends opportunities for projects allowing others to
        observe positive capabilities of the mentee.
     6.3. Mentors support the Air Force mission by helping mentees recognize the importance of
     defined attainable work-related personal goals and assist them in developing a sense of
     accountability in achieving their personal objectives.
     6.4. Mentors help mentees understand the value of continuous self-development to them
     personally and to the Air Force. They assist mentees in taking advantage of all opportunities
     to improve their competencies. Reference Figure A2.1. Mentoring Checklist.
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                        5


   6.5. Mentors will use the Mentoring Toolkit in Attachment 2 and other mentoring resources
   to ensure their mentees receive every benefit the mentoring relationship can provide. They
   will assist mentees in identifying strengths and areas for improvement and encourage them to
   seek guidance from other mentors who can provide support for specific mentoring needs
   outside their expertise (reference Table A2.1. Mentoring Relationship Types).
   6.6. Mentors will ensure their Airmen are aware of mentoring options offered within their
   organization. It is important for mentors to communicate with their mentees, even if they
   work at a different duty location or in a different career field, to provide mentees an
   opportunity to participate in mentoring relationships.
   6.7. One area mentors clearly can address is learning. To this end, mentors must be familiar
   with the CoL for officers, enlisted members, and civilian employees in order to adequately
   discuss the learning opportunities with their mentees. Additional topics mentoring can
   encompass are listed in Attachment 2, A2.1.
   6.8. Mentors will use web-based developmental tools, such as MyDP, to assess mentees’
   capabilities, build mentoring plans, and guide mentees toward reaching their goals. These
   electronic tools provide direction on how Air Force requirements may be met through
   education and training.
   6.9. Mentors will enhance their mentoring skills by reviewing the mentoring resources
   located in Attachment 2, A2.2.
7. Mentor Expectations.
   7.1. Exemplify Air Force Core Values.
   7.2. Provide practical counsel by offering guidance, providing feedback, and acknowledging
   accomplishment.
   7.3. Support mentee’s career planning and goal setting by using a developmental plan, such
   as the Mentoring Plan (reference Table A2.2.), to capture required career planning data.
   Mentors also shall refer mentees to Career Field Managers (CFMs) for discussion of the
   career path tools that have been developed for their occupations.
   7.4. Assist mentees in assessing their institutional and occupational competencies to identify
   both strengths and areas for improvement.
   7.5. Encourage mentees to cultivate their institutional and occupational competencies.
   7.6. Share relevant knowledge, experience, and resources with mentees.
   7.7. Identify and help mentees resolve potential issues they face in development.
   7.8. Facilitate opportunities for mentees to gain new experiences and build skills.
8. Mentee Guidelines.
   8.1. Mentees will be actively involved in their personal education and development. They
   are to develop a mentoring plan that clearly identifies their educational and professional
   goals and objectives.
   8.2. Mentees will work with their mentors in creating their personal plans. The plans will be
   challenging and within the mentees’ capabilities.
 6                                                                AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


     8.3. Mentees will request assistance when needed, be fully engaged, and be active listeners.
     8.4. They shall be open to feedback and willing to accept new challenges.
     8.5. Mentee will be familiar with the information in the Mentoring Toolkit, Attachment 2,
     and use the resources for further development.
9. Mentee Expectations.
     9.1. Work with mentors in developing a career roadmap by identifying and clarifying current
     and future career goals.
     9.2. Gain in-depth understanding of the mission, goals, and structure of the Air Force.
     9.3. Accept responsibility for learning and developmental needs.
     9.4. Enhance institutional and occupational competencies.
     9.5. Leverage opportunities for career advancement.
     9.6. Expand leadership abilities.
     9.7. Be receptive to feedback.




                                              DARRELL D. JONES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                   7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 June 1993
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFPD 36-70, Diversity, 13 October 2010
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program, 01 July 1999
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 September 2009
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 July 2010
AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional
Continuing Education), 11 July 2001
AFI 36-2304, Community College of the Air Force, 01 September 1999
AFI 36-2306, Voluntary Education Program, 13 August 2010
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 April 2005
AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, 16 June 2004
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, 31 December 2009
AFI 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure, 27 February 2009
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 16 December 2008
AFI 36-2642, Professional Advancement and Continuous Education, 26 July 2011
AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, 01 May 1999
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002
AFI 36-601, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management, 25 July 1994
AFI 36-602, Civilian Intern Programs, 25 July 1994
AFI 36-703, Civilian Conduct and Responsibility, 01 August 1999
ANGI 36-2502, Promotion of Airmen, 17 June 2010
ANGI 36-2504, Federal Recognition of Promotion in the Air National Guard (ANG) and as a
Reserve of the Air Force Below the Grade of General Officer, 28 July 2004
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 0 November 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFMAN 36-606, Civilian Career Field Management and Development, 03 May 2011
AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide, 01 October 2011
My Development Plan (MyDP) – Air Force Portal website
 8                                                               AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


Air Force Officer Force Development Leadership Continuum, Air Force Enlisted Force
Development Leadership Continuum, and Air Force Civilian Force Development Leadership
Continuum, Air Force Portal website, Life and Career, Force Development link
CSAF Professional Reading Program, Air Force Portal website
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
Airman—According to AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, an Airman is any U.S.
Air Force member and Department of the Air Force civilian.
Competencies—A cluster of knowledge, skills, abilities (KSAs), and attributes an individual
possesses to successfully perform a given task, condition, or standard consistently.
Continuum of Learning (CoL)—The career-long process of individual development
accomplished through education, training, and experience. It is designed to deliberately integrate
developmental opportunities through a common taxonomy to produce adaptable, knowledge-
enabled Airmen for today and tomorrow.
Education—The process of imparting general bodies of knowledge and habits of mind
applicable to a broad spectrum of endeavors to intellectually prepare individuals to deal with
dynamic environments and solve ill-defined problems by using critical thought and reasoned
judgment. Education programs prepare Airmen to successfully anticipate and meet challenges
across the range of military operation.
Experience—Active participation/involvement in positions, events, or activities leading to the
accumulation of knowledge or skill that can be utilized to meet mission requirements.
Force Development (FD)—A deliberate process of preparing Airmen through the CoL with the
required competencies to meet the challenges of current and future operating environments.
Institutional development generally results in leadership, management, and warrior ethos
proficiency. Occupational development generally results in flying and technical skill
proficiency.
Institutional Competencies—Common taxonomy used to implement the Continuum of
Learning (CoL). These competencies are expected of all Airmen, throughout their careers, and
will be the competencies needed to operate successfully in the constantly changing environment
in which they function.
Leadership—Art and science of motivating, influencing, and directing Airmen to understand
and accomplish the Air Force mission. See AFDD 1-1 for a detailed explanation.
Mentor—Wise, trusted, and experienced individual who shares knowledge, experience, and
advice with a less experienced person.
Mentee— Individuals who desire to expand their knowledge and skills by gaining advice from a
more experienced individual.
Mentoring—Inclusive professional relationship and process that is required to support career
and personal development of mentees. It includes the entire set of strategies needed for support.
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                        9


Coaching is one of the sets of strategies that mentors must learn and effectively use to increase
their mentees’ competencies and success. Coaching is technical support focused on development
of the techniques employees must know and be able to perform.
Mentoring Plan—Document that serves as a roadmap for facilitating mentoring expectations,
career goals, and developmental objectives. It serves as a communication tool between Airmen
and their mentors.
Occupational Competencies—Specific to certain functions or occupations. They are related to
specific areas of expertise that enable individuals to successfully perform their unique duties.
Records Disposition Schedule—A document providing mandatory instruction for the lifecycle
management of records (and non-record materials) in any format or media type. The RDS
provides for the disposition of records when agency business need for the records ceases, i.e.,
destruction of temporary records and transfer of permanent records to the National Archives of
the United States
 10                                                              AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                                   MENTORING TOOLKIT

Figure A2.1. Mentoring Checklist.
This checklist will assist in planning for mentoring sessions.
A2.1.1. Mentor schedules first mentoring meeting.
   A2.1.2. Mentor is very familiar with information in this Manual, especially Mentoring
   Toolkit, Attachment 2; and reviews mentoring information in AFPD 36-26 and AFI 36-2640.
   A2.1.3. Mentor requests mentee complete the Mentoring Plan in Attachment 2, Table A2.2.
   A2.1.4. Mentor reviews mentee’s education, training, experience, and career field
   development path.
   A2.1.5. Mentor and mentee agree on expectations for meetings and discuss
   boundaries/confidentiality of the mentoring relationship (example: professionalism, etc).
   A2.1.6. Mentor and mentee discuss methods of communication (meetings, MyDP mentoring
   forum, phone calls, etc). They record topics discussed and feedback given at each meeting in
   the Mentoring Plan.
   A2.1.7. Mentor and mentee discuss and record in the Mentoring Plan any issues that may
   affect the mentoring relationship, such as meeting time or location, etc.
   A2.1.8. Mentor and mentee meet to discuss goals, objectives, and other items recorded in the
   Mentoring Plan. They explore professional development opportunities for achieving goals.
   A2.1.9. Mentor ensures Mentoring Plan reflects a progression of professional developmental
   steps, aligned to different stages of the mentee’s development.
   A2.1.10. Mentor encourages mentee to reflect regularly on goals, achievements, and areas
   for improvement.
   A2.1.11. Mentor and mentee amend the Mentoring Plan as needed by focusing on the
   mentee’s developing needs.
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                                          11


Table A2.1. Mentoring Relationship Types.
       Type                               Description                                  Advantage
Flash Mentoring         Busy leaders are recruited to become mentors        Opportunity to learn from
                        without committing a lot of time. Mentees           executives without a long-term
                        are assigned at random and can meet for just        commitment.
                        one session. Mentors share lessons learned,
                        experiences, and advice to the mentee. After
                        initial meeting, mentors and mentees can
                        decide if they would like to continue the
                        mentoring relationship.
Group Mentoring         One or more mentors address a large audience        Opportunity to extend its
                        of mentees. As each mentor introduces               mentoring efforts by reaching
                        concepts, answers questions, or relays              more mentees in a time-efficient
                        guidance, they engage the entire group in the       manner. Also resolves the issues
                        conversation. Can be facilitated group              of not having enough mentors
                        mentoring, peer-group mentoring, or team            and can promote diversity of
                        mentoring.                                          thinking, practice, and
                                                                            understanding.
Peer Mentoring          Relationship with an individual within the          Mentees sometimes learn better
                        same grade and/or job series. Purpose is to         from their friends, associates, or
                        support colleagues in their professional            individual with similar
                        development and growth, to facilitate mutual        backgrounds and career interests.
                        learning, and to build a sense of community.
                        It is not hierarchical, prescriptive, judgmental,
                        or evaluative.
Reverse Mentoring       Mentoring of a senior (in age, experience, or       Ability to create and maintain an
                        position) person by a junior individual. Aim        attitude of openness regardless of
                        is to help share unique knowledge sets,             status, power, or position.
                        possibly in the field of information
                        technology, computing, or internet
                        communications.
Situational Mentoring   Providing the right help at the right time by a     Informal mentoring that usually
                        mentor when a member needs guidance,                occurs as a short-term fix to
                        advice, or constructive correction.                 address an immediate situation
                                                                            but can transition to a more long-
                                                                            term connection over time if both
                                                                            the mentor and mentee are
                                                                            inclined to do so.
Virtual Mentoring       Using electronic tools such as                      Helpful for career fields whose
                        videoconferencing, the Air Force web-portal         members are geographically
                        resource MyDP, or email in order to mentor          dispersed, for personnel who
                        individuals. Recommend mentor and mentee            work alternating shifts or night
                        meet face-to-face when it is possible.              shifts, for personnel who are
                                                                            deployed, or for personnel who
                                                                            are in remote areas. Can be a tool
                                                                            to engage an increasingly tech-
                                                                            savvy population.
 12                                                                  AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


Table A2.2. Mentoring Plan.
           Focus Areas                                Results                   Comments
Mentoring Expectations                 Expectation 1:                 Mentor:
                                       Expectation 2:                 Mentee:
Long-term Career Goal(s)               Goal 1:                        Mentor:
                                       Goal 2:                        Mentee:
Indicators that Each Goal was          Goal 1 Indicator:              Mentor:
Accomplished                           Goal 2 Indicator:              Mentee:
Short-term Career Objective(s)         Objective 1:                   Mentor:
                                       Objective 2:                   Mentee:
Indicators that Each Objective was     Objective 1 Indicator:         Mentor:
Accomplished                           Objective 2 Indicator:         Mentee:
Institutional Competency               Strengths—                     Mentor:
Development Analysis (reference        Areas for Improvement--        Mentee:
Institutional Competency               Steps for Achieving Desired
Proficiency Descriptive Behaviors      Improvement--
on MyDP website)
Occupational Competency                Strengths—                     Mentor:
Development Analysis (consult CFM      Areas for Improvement--        Mentee:
for Occupational Competency            Steps for Achieving Desired
Proficiency Descriptive Behaviors)     Improvement--
Additional Areas for Assistance        1.                             Mentor:
                                       2.                             Mentee:
Common Feedback Received from          1.                             Mentor:
Others                                 2.                             Mentee:
Measurable Benchmarks for Focus        1.                             Mentor:
Areas                                  2.                             Mentee:
Resources Needed to Reach Desired
State
 Progress Status (overall evaluation   Interim:                       Mentor:
of plan achievement)                   Annual:                        Mentee:
A2.1. Mentoring Discussion Topics. The below items address topics mentors and mentees
could discuss during a mentoring session.
    A2.1.1. Professional knowledge. Reference AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development
    Guide, 01 October 2011.
        A2.1.1.1. Career guidance; technical and professional development; and leadership.
        A2.1.1.2. Air Force topics ranging from history and heritage; air, space, and cyberspace
        doctrine; and contribution to joint warfighting.
        A2.1.1.3. Core Values and Ethics. Air Force Core Values include Integrity First, Service
        Before Self, and Excellence In All We Do. For additional information on the Air Force
        Core Values and ethics, reference AFDD 1-1.
    A2.1.2. Professional Reading. Mentors will encourage mentees to read and comprehend air,
    space, and cyberspace literature such as Air Force doctrine and operational warfighting
    publications and books in the CSAF Professional Reading Program. The annual readings are
    appropriate for all Airmen (enlisted, officer, and civilian) and can be found on the Air Force
    Portal. Suggested books and journals from Air University (AU) and Air Force Institute of
    Technology (AFIT) also are good sources for professional readings.
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                      13


  A2.1.3. Performance and Potential. Raters discuss performance, potential, and professional
  development plans (e.g., Individual Development Plan) with their subordinates during
  performance feedback sessions, as required by AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation
  Systems, and AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program. When meeting
  with mentees on career development, mentors will carefully study the applicable FD
  Leadership Development Continuum (officer, enlisted, and civilian). Pay particular attention
  to assignment and job levels as they apply to company grade through senior field grades,
  senior NCOs, and civilian equivalents.
  A2.1.4. Career Field Requirements. Mentors ensure their mentees have continuous access to
  career field unique mentoring and expertise. Mentors of enlisted personnel will refer to the
  career field education and training plan (CFETP) in the OJT training record and AFI 36-
  2618, The Enlisted Force Structure. Mentors of civilian personnel may refer to AFI 36-401,
  Employee Training and Development, and AFMAN 36-606, Civilian Career Field
  Management and Development. It is important for mentors to distinguish between individual
  goals, career aspirations, and realistic expectations.
  A2.1.5. Success Metrics. Each Airman defines a successful career differently, and there are
  numerous paths to meet individual career and success goals. Foremost, however, individuals
  must focus on AF strategic needs. Air Force leadership develops members who are skilled in
  the employment and support of air, space, and cyberspace power and how they meet the
  security needs of the Nation. While there is nothing wrong with lofty goals, mentors must
  ensure their mentees realize the importance of identifying achievable goals.
  A2.1.6. Development Teams and Vectors. Development teams provide assignment vectors
  that enhance professional development while meeting Air Force needs without necessarily
  keying on a specific position or location. Mentees are expected to perform well in their
  current assignment. When mentees become eligible for DT vectoring, they will address
  career goals with their mentors. For additional information consult AFPD 36-26; AFI 36-
  2110, Assignments; and AFI 36-2640.
  A2.1.7. Developmental Education Opportunities. Education enhances performance in each
  phase of professional growth and builds on the foundation of leadership abilities shown
  during the earlier stages of an Airman’s career. The role of developmental education is to
  prepare Airmen to take on increased responsibilities appropriate to their grade and to enhance
  their contribution to the Air Force.
     A2.1.7.1. Focus for each Airman will be on developing competencies needed to enhance
     professional competence and become superior leaders while expanding their operational
     employment of air, space, and cyberspace knowledge.
     A2.1.7.2. This is the primary intent of Professional Military Education (PME);
     Professional Development programs, such as Professional Continuing Education (PCE)
     and Advanced Academic Degrees (AAD) earned through Air Force Institute of
     Technology; and civilian academic institutions. See AFI 36-2301, Developmental
     Education, AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and
     Professional Continuing Education), and AFI 36-2642, Professional Advancement and
     Continuous Education, 26 July 2011.
14                                                             AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


  A2.1.8. Academic Education. Post-secondary degrees, certificates, and licenses can be
  important to professional development to the extent they enhance the degree holder’s job and
  professional qualifications. For specific information on academic degrees, reference AFI 36-
  2304, Community College of the Air Force; and AFI 36-2306, Voluntary Education
  Program.
  A2.1.9. Promotion Systems. It is imperative that military and civilian leaders understand
  the promotion systems for their mentees (active duty, reserve, guard, and civilians). For
  example, AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, explains the promotion system for
  officers, enlisted, and support components. For additional information on military
  promotions, reference AFI 36-2406; AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions and Selective
  Continuation; and AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs. For specific
  information on ANG officer promotions refer to ANGI 36-2504, Federal Recognition of
  Promotion in the Air National Guard (ANG) and as Reserve of the Air Force Below the
  Grade of General Officer. For information on ANG enlisted promotions refer to ANGI 36-
  2502, Promotion of Airmen. For civilian employees, mentors will be familiar with AFPD 36-
  26; AFI 36-601, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management; and AFI 36-602, Civilian
  Intern Programs.
  A2.1.10. AF Competencies. Competencies are essential to the development of the Total
  Force and the accomplishment of the Air Force mission. People are the Air Force's most
  critical asset. It is essential that Airmen have the skills, knowledge, experience, and
  motivation to meet current operational needs and ensure future capabilities of the Air Force.
     A2.1.10.1. Institutional competencies are the building blocks to develop Air Force
     leaders across all occupations and organizational levels. The eight Air Force institutional
     competencies are divided into three competency categories — Personal, People/Team,
     and Organizational — in the figure below. For additional information on the
     competencies, review AFDD 1-1, MyDP website, and AFPD 36-26.
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                          15


Figure A2.2. Categories of Institutional Competencies.




       A2.1.10.2. Occupational (or technical/functional) competencies are specific to career
       field duties that focus on building depth of functional experience and specific areas of
       expertise that enable individuals to successfully perform their unique duties.
A2.2. Resources. The following pages contain a list of resources, including an online mentoring
system, reading material, and outside organizations, associations, and programs that support
various segments of the military and civilian population. This list is not all inclusive and is
provided for information only and will not be considered an endorsement by the U.S. Air Force.
   A2.2.1. My Development Plan (MyDP).
       A2.2.1.1. MyDP is a web-based resource for Total Force Airmen that lets them access
       career field, education, and training information from one web site customized to each
       user’s needs. Located on the Air Force Portal, this site gives users access to their records,
       career field information and a means to communicate with peers on the site’s Forums. It
       also allows a user to request a mentor or become a mentor to others using the site’s
       Mentor Network. The Mentor Network section of MyDP contains information to assist
       mentors and mentees alike as they establish career goals. Mentees can grant their
       mentors online access to view their developmental progress and receive feedback on the
       force development programs and tools appropriate for their present grade.
       A2.2.1.2. Mentors and mentees are encouraged to access the Mentoring section of MyDP
       and explore the “Mentoring Resources” section to find a wealth of mentoring information
       and publications. The use of MyDP is especially beneficial in instances where face-to-
       face mentoring is inhibited by geographic distance or schedule conflicts.
       A2.2.1.3. Mentor resources available on MyDP help mentors and mentees assess
       capabilities, build a mentoring plan, and guide mentees toward reaching their goals.
       These electronic tools provide direction on how Air Force requirements may be met
       through education, training, and experiential assignments.
16                                                            AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


  A2.2.2. The Supervisor Resource Center.
     A2.2.2.1. The Supervisor Resource Center (SRC) is an AF Portal site at
     https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/site/Life_and_Career/FD/SRC providing a
     clearinghouse of leadership development resources targeted towards emerging leaders
     and new and experienced supervisors.
     A2.2.2.2. The SRC features learning programs based on the AF institutional
     competencies and may be recommended by mentors as a development opportunity for
     mentees.
     A2.2.2.3. Resources available through the SRC are free, flexible, and available on-
     demand. In addition, the SRC features a learning program created to assist new or
     experienced mentors who may want to refresh their skills.
  A2.2.3. Online Central Products.
     A2.2.3.1. Federal Leadership Development Program (http://www.opm.gov/fedldp/)
     Searchable electronic library of programs offered by Federal departments and
     agencies to foster the development of leadership skills in their employees.
     A2.2.3.2. Skillsoft Courses (Air Force Portal, click on “IT E-Learning” under the
     heading of Education/Training/Development). E-learning courses, such as “Mentoring as
     a Manager,” “Mentoring Effectively,” and “Mentoring Strategies for the 21 st Century are
     provided.
     A2.2.3.3. Books24x7 (Air Force Portal, click on “IT E-Learning” under the heading of
     Education/Training/Development). Numerous books about the mentoring process and a
     great resource mentees can use for self development.
     A2.2.3.4. Triple Creek Associates (http://www.3creek.com/resources/booklets.htm).
     Information is provided on the mentoring program goals & benefits with PDF booklets
     and guides that can be downloaded for free.
     A2.2.3.5. The Mentoring Group (http://www.mentoringgroup.com).                Web-based
     program that provides mentoring tips and publications related to mentoring.
     A2.2.3.6. Best Practices: Mentoring, United States Office of Personnel Management,
     September 2008 (http://www.opm.gov/hrd/lead/BestPractices-Mentoring.pdf).
     A2.2.3.7. Mentoring Makes a Difference, Lt Col Penny H. Bailey, USAF
     (http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/cc/bailey.html).
  A2.2.4. Books.
     A2.2.4.1. Be Your Own Mentor: Strategies from Top Women on the Secrets of Success
     by Shelia Wellington.
     A2.2.4.2. Beyond the Myths & Magic of Mentoring: How to facilitate an effective
     Mentoring Process by Margo Murray.
     A2.2.4.3. Coaching & Mentoring for Dummies by Marty Brownstein.
     A2.2.4.4. Common Sense Mentoring by Larry Ambrose.
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                       17


     A2.2.4.5. Connecting with Success: How to Build a Mentoring Network to Fast-
     Forward Your Career by Kathleen Barton.
     A2.2.4.6. Creating a Mentoring Culture: The Organization’s Guide by Lois J. Zachary.
     A2.2.4.7. Daring to Be Different: A Manager’s Ascent to Leadership by James A.
     Hatherley.
     A2.2.4.8. The Elements of Mentoring by W. Brad Johnson and Charles R. Ridley.
     A2.2.4.9. Guide to Mentee Planning (GMP) by Norman H. Cohen.
     A2.2.4.10. The Heart of Mentoring: Ten Proven Principles for Developing People to
     Their Fullest Potential by David. Stoddard.
     A2.2.4.11. Making the Most of Being Mentored: How to Grow from a Mentoring
     Relationship by Gordon F. Shea.
     A2.2.4.12. Managers as Mentors: Building Partnerships for Learning by Chip R. Bell.
     A2.2.4.13. Mentoring 101: What Every Leader Needs to Know by John C. Maxwell.
     A2.2.4.14. My Mentoring Diary by Ann Ritchie & Paul Genoni.
     A2.2.4.15. Mentoring and Diversity: An International Perspective by David Clutterbuck
     and Belle R. Ragins.
     A2.2.4.16. Mentoring Heroes: 52 Fabulous Women’s Paths to Success & the Mentors
     Who Empowered Them by Mary K. Doyle.
     A2.2.4.17. Mentoring: How to Develop Successful Mentor Behaviors by Gordon F.
     Shea.
     A2.2.4.18. The Mentoring Manual by Mike Whittaker and Ann Cartwright.
     A2.2.4.19. The Mentoring Pocketbook by Geof Alfred, Bob Garvey, & Richard Smith.
     A2.2.4.20. Mentoring:     The Tao of Giving & Receiving Wisdom by Al Chungliang
     Huang & Jerry Lynch.
     A2.2.4.21. The Mentor’s Guide: Facilitating Effective Learning Relationships by Lois J.
     Zachary.
     A2.2.4.22. Principles of Adult Mentoring Inventory (PAMI) by N. H. Cohen.
  A2.2.5. Organizations and Associations. These organizations, associations, and programs
  support various segments of the military population and may be useful in helping to facilitate
  a mentoring program or mentoring relationships. This list is not all-inclusive, is provided for
  information only, and will not be considered an endorsement of their activities by the U.S.
  Air Force.
     A2.2.5.1. National Organizations for Certification and Licensing. The base education
     center has a list of nationally recognized organizations that authorize licensing and
     certification programs, to include who is eligible to apply.
     A2.2.5.2. Company Grade Officer Council (CGOC). This organization is active in
     helping the base and local community. It is normally active at each base under guidance
     from the host command.
18                                                               AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013


     A2.2.5.3. Lieutenant’s Professional Development Program (LPDP). This program fills
     the professional development gap between commissioning and Squadron Officer School.
     Normally active under guidance from the base’s host command.
     A2.2.5.4. The Order of Daedalians and the Airlift/Tanker Association. Professional
     associations of military pilots promoting leadership in air & space power.
     A2.2.5.5. The Air Force Association (AFA). Founded in 1946 to support aerospace
     power and a strong national defense.
     A2.2.5.6. The Association of Military Surgeons of the US. Founded in 1891 to represent
     physicians and other health care workers of commissioned rank. Mainly a professional
     development group.
     A2.2.5.7. Military Chaplains Association of the USA. Founded in 1925 for Army
     chaplains. Chartered by Congress in 1950 to represent the interests of all military
     chaplains.
     A2.2.5.8. The National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association (NARFE).
     Since 1921 NARFE has been an advocate for active and retired federal employees.
     A2.2.5.9. National Association of Uniformed Services (NAUS). Founded in 1968 to
     represent anyone who wears (or has worn) a uniform.
     A2.2.5.10. The Retired Officers Association (TROA).          Founded in 1919 to represent
     active, former, and retired officers.
     A2.2.5.11. Air Force Cadet/Officer Mentor Action Program, Inc. (AFCOMAP). A
     private organization founded in 1982. Chartered by SAF and CSAF. Committed to
     supporting the Air Force in the recruitment, professional development, and retention of
     cadets and junior officers.
     A2.2.5.12. Air University Library. Houses well-balanced collections especially strong in
     the fields of war fighting, aeronautics, Air Force and DoD operations, military sciences,
     education, leadership, and management.
     A2.2.5.13. Civil Air Patrol (CAP). Volunteer civilian auxiliary of the Air Force. CAP
     performs emergency service missions to include air and ground search and rescue,
     disaster relief, and drug interdiction. It promotes citizenship, leadership, physical fitness,
     and aerospace education through its cadet programs.
     A2.2.5.14. National Guard Association of the US (NGAUS). Represents officers in the
     National Guard and Air National Guard. Focuses on National Guard issues.
     A2.2.5.15. Reserve Officers Association (ROA). Founded in 1950 to represent reserve
     officers. Focuses on officer reserve issues.
     A2.2.5.16. Reserve Enlisted Association (REA). Founded in 2003 to represent reserve
     enlisted. Focuses on enlisted reserve issues.
     A2.2.5.17. AF Reserve Command’s Professional Development Center. Offers different
     professional development programs at diverse locations across the US at varied times.
     Trains company grade officers in leadership, team building, cultural diversity,
     mobilization issues, and military officership.
AFMAN36-2643 1 MAY 2013                                                                 19


     A2.2.5.18. AF Sergeant’s Association. Represents the professional & personal interests
     of active duty & retired enlisted members.
     A2.2.5.19. Non Commissioned Officers Association. Established to maintain and
     enhance the quality of life for the entire enlisted force in all branches of the Armed
     Forces.
