                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                     HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND




                                                     AFMAN33-282_AFGSCSUP_AFGSCGM1

                                                                                     16 July 2013



MEMORANDUM FOR ALL AFGSC HQ DIRECTORS

FROM: AFGSC/A6
      66 Kenney Avenue
      Barksdale AFB, LA 71110

SUBJECT: HQ AFGSC Guidance Memorandum (GM) - Wireless Laptops Operating in Open
Storage Areas

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this memorandum.

1. By the Order of the Director of Communications, Air Force Global Strike, this Guidance
Memorandum implements procedure to ensure wireless laptop capability is always non-
operational in open storage areas. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the
extent its direction is inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
    a. This guidance memorandum implements DoDD 8100.2, AFMAN 33-282, AFSSI 7702
       and AFI 31-401 AFGSC Sup. The supplemented policies provide guidance on the usage
       of wireless-capable laptops in the open storage areas where classified information is
       processed. This GM is applicable to all HQ AFGSC directorates and provides direction
       only for laptops located within open storage areas. The goal of this GM is to provide
       procedures for the proper docking and undocking of workstations.
2. Most HQ AFGSC laptops have wireless capability. This capability is disabled, IAW DoDD
8100.02, by group network policy. However, group policy implementation may disengage after
the laptop is unplugged from the network. AFGSC users of laptop computers must use the
following procedure, which provides an additional measure of security when docking and
undocking wireless-capable laptops.
   a. The laptop must be powered “Off” prior to removal from its assigned docking station or
      removal of the network cable. This prevents unintended re-enabling of the wireless mode
      on the device. The wireless computer can then be removed from the open storage area
      while powered “Off”.
   b. Returning the wireless laptop to the open storage area requires the device be powered
      “Off” until the device is physically plugged back into the network or securely docked.
   c. The laptop device can be turned “On” only after being removed from the open storage
      area or plugged into the network. Wireless-capable laptop users will physically check
      their device for wireless connectivity when powering “On”. Users will check for wireless
      disablement by ensuring the wireless indicator light is off (or that the light has turned the
      correct color for the device) and the user will view wireless connections in the control
      panel (Path = Control Panel/View Network Status and Tasks/Change Adapter Settings) to
      ensure the wireless network connection is disabled. Users will report wireless enabled
      devices to their local Information Assurance Officer (IAO), remediate the problem
      through the communications support desk or remove the device from the open storage
      area.
3. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).
4. Direct all questions regarding this GM to AFGSC/A6X at 456-0414. There will be no
waivers granted for this guidance.
5. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.




                                             ROBERT D. REGO
                                             Major General, USAF
                                             Director of Communications

cc:
AFGSC /A1/A2/A3/A4/7/A6/A5/8/9/DS/FM/HC/HO/IG/IP/PA/SE/SG/ST/CCX
