BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE MANUAL 10-2605
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              30 JUNE 2008
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 6 APRIL 2010
                                                                Certified Current, 6 December 2010
                                                                                     Operations

                                                 EDUCATION, TRAINING AND EXERCISE
                                                      COMPETENCIES FOR COUNTER-
                                                            CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL,
                                                       RADIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR
                                                                      OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at for
               downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A5XP                                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/A5X
                                                                    (Maj Gen William J. Rew)
                                                                                    Pages: 134


Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 10-2605, Education, Training and Exercise (ETE) Competencies
for Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (C-CBRN) Operations, sets forth
the knowledge, skills and abilities (i.e., competencies) crucial to effective C-CBRN operations.
These C-CBRN ETE competencies, herein referred to as ―            competencies,‖ are an integral
component of institutional Air Force C-CBRN operational capability.             AFMAN 10-2605
implements elements of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-26, Counter-Chemical,
Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations, AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, and
reflects Air Force doctrine contained in Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 2-1.8, Counter-
Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations.

The five doctrinal pillars of Air Force C-CBRN operations defined in AFDD 2-1.8 organize
unique Air Force operational capabilities that support the eight mission areas within The
National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction and the three pillars of the
National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction. The competencies and associated
levels of learning and proficiency codes within this manual contribute to Air Force operational
capability. These competencies provide commanders, educators, trainers, and exercise
developers with a valuable source of Air Force-approved C-CBRN ETE competencies
contributing to effective combating weapons of mass destruction (CWMD) operations.

While focused at Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Field
Operating Agencies (FOAs) and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), this manual applies to all units
2                                                             AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


and ETE stakeholder activities under Air Force command and control. This includes Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), or other geographically
separated units to the extent possible given location and assigned manpower.

In areas outside the continental United States (OCONUS), this manual applies to the extent
consistent with local conditions and treaty requirements, agreements, and other arrangements
with foreign governments and allied forces.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), AF/A5XP, using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change incorporates into AFMAN 10-2605 C-CBRN competencies for civilians,
contractors and dependents (CCD).          It also defines the terms ―   emergency-essential,‖
―nonemergency-essential,‖ and ―  senior leader‖ as they relate to C-CBRN knowledge, skills and
abilities for CCDs. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.

Page 1, para 2: The five doctrinal pillars of the Air Force C-CBRN operations defined in AFDD
2-1.8 organize unique Air Force operational capabilities that support the eight mission areas
within The National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction and the three
pillars of the National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction. The competencies and
associated levels of learning and proficiency codes within this manual contribute to Air Force
operational capability. These competencies provide commanders, educators, trainers, and
exercise developers with a valuable source of Air Force-approved C-CBRN ETE competencies
contributing to effective combating weapons of mass destruction (CWMD) operations. The
majority of the competencies incorporated in this AFMAN are targeted toward active duty
Airmen; however, selected competencies apply to emergency-essential civilians and contractors
(Attachment 5), non-emergency-essential civilians and contractors (Attachment 6), and
dependents (Attachment 7).

Page 3, Attachment 5—C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCIES FOR EMERGENCY-ESSENTIAL
AND SENIOR LEADER CIVILIANS AND CONTRACTORS

Page 3, Attachment 6—C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCIES FOR NON-EMERGENCY
ESSENTIAL CIVILIANS AND CONTRACTORS

Page 3, Attachment        7—C-CBRN        ETE    COMPETENCIES         FOR     DEPENDENTS
(RECOMMENDED)
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                        3



                                            Chapter 1

                                  C-CBRN ETE OVERVIEW

1.1. Strategic Overview. The National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction,
published in 2002, describes three pillars of CWMD: nonproliferation, counterproliferation and
consequence management. These pillars are accomplished by the Department of Defense (DOD)
via eight CWMD mission areas described in The National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons
of Mass Destruction, published in 2006. The mission areas: offensive operations; elimination
operations; interdiction operations; active defense; passive defense; WMD consequence
management; security cooperation and partnership activities; and threat reduction cooperation,
allow the military to complete its CWMD mission in direct support of the national strategy.
Similarly, the five doctrinal pillars of Air Force C-CBRN operations codified by AFDD 2-1.8,
Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (C-CBRN) Operations, published in
2007, support the eight military mission areas and the three national pillars. The five Air Force
doctrinal pillars are: proliferation prevention; counterforce; active defense; passive defense; and
consequence management. The competencies within Attachment 2 of this manual contribute
directly to Air Force C-CBRN operational capability.
1.2. Doctrinal Pillars of C-CBRN Operations. As explained in Air Force doctrine, the pillars
are mutually supporting and reinforcing, forming an overlapping and interlinked operational
spectrum. Activities and operations falling within one of the doctrinal pillars may be conducted
concurrently with activities and operations supporting one of the other doctrinal pillars.
   1.2.1. Proliferation Prevention (PP) – Those actions (e.g., diplomacy, arms control,
   multilateral agreements, threat reduction assistance, export controls and interdiction) taken to
   prevent or limit the spread of WMD. By dissuading or impeding access to, or distribution of,
   sensitive technologies, materials or expertise, the Air Force can reduce the potential for
   adversary acquisition and use of WMD. Air Force PP capabilities include detecting,
   deterring and denying an adversary’s acquisition of CBRN weapons and components; air,
   space and cyberspace power provide robust capabilities to do this. These capabilities help
   ensure prohibited technologies and materials do not get into the hands of potential
   adversaries or states potentially hostile to the US.
   1.2.2. Counterforce (CF) – CF operations provide combatant commanders with the ability to
   defeat the full suite of CBRN capabilities before they can be used against US interests, while
   minimizing collateral effects. CF operations aim to detect, deter, deny, degrade or destroy
   adversary CBRN capabilities, including research and development, production, storage
   facilities, fielded forces and related command and control.
   1.2.3. Active Defense (AD) – AD operations attempt to intercept CBRN weapons en route to
   their targets. Successful AD operations can complement CF activities by forcing an
   adversary to alter attack strategies and expose CBRN assets. If CF operational capabilities
   are unsuccessful or unavailable, successful AD operations can reduce the threat, lessen the
   number of attacks, thwart an attack, allow more effective passive defense and consequence
   management responses, and enhance US/Coalition operational capability following a CBRN
   attack. Effective AD measures take into account AD capability sets (i.e., detect, divert and
   destroy) with various planning considerations for each of the layered-defense domains (i.e.,
4                                                                  AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


    space, air and surface). This layered defense approach incorporates networked space, air and
    surface systems, and employs both kinetic and non-kinetic means of defeat.
    1.2.4. Passive Defense (PD) – CBRN PD measures improve the abilities of personnel to
    survive and sustain operations in a contaminated environment. PD measures maximize the
    ability to survive and operate in a contaminated environment through proper planning,
    training, risk assessment, vulnerability and hazard mitigation. All activities/measures fall
    under one or more components of the PD framework, which consists of sensing, shaping,
    shielding and sustainment.
    1.2.5. Consequence Management (CM) – CM activities serve to reduce the effects of a
    CBRN attack or event and assist in the restoration of essential operations and services at
    home and abroad in a permissive environment. Regardless of the specific CBRN event
    involved, there are effectively three phases to dealing with the post-attack consequences of
    an event: casualty management, remediation of the affected area and restoration of essential
    services.
1.3. C-CBRN ETE Integrated Operational Context. A robust C-CBRN operational
capability for the Air Force is not achieved through a single individual or skill-level, nor is it the
responsibility of a single functional community. It does not exist because of a particular Air
Operations Center or by the direction of a single Wing Commander alone. C-CBRN capability is
realized through an integrated life-cycle approach derived using Force Development principles to
create an integrated ―  whole-base‖ capability. This integration is not the result of a single lesson,
nor single schoolhouse or exercise event. It is the culmination of growing CBRN-smart
warfighters capable of owning this operational environment regardless of an adversary’s intent,
will, possession or use of CBRN weapons. To facilitate and achieve this operational objective,
five targeted audiences are defined to manage and institutionalize the necessary knowledge,
skills and abilities that ultimately enable and sustain an integrated operational capability.
    1.3.1. Senior Leadership: those with command authority and responsibility for directing C-
    CBRN operations. The operational requirement is integrating an Air Force-wide effort using
    certain decision tools to sustain C-CBRN operations, regardless of level of command or
    operating location. The O-6 plus category is used within the grade-band architecture shown
    in attachment 2 to produce Air Force leaders who understand the CBRN environment and
    apply effective operational risk management decisions.
    1.3.2. Functional Specific: those classified within certain Air Force Specialty Codes
    (AFSCs) with sufficient knowledge of, and competence in, their CBRN mitigation strategies
    embedded in functionally-driven Tactics, Techniques and Procedures. In essence, enabling
    those who perform functional skills that ensure sortie generation and/or cargo throughput, but
    now within a CBRN environment. Grade bands used in attachment 2 closely correlate to Air
    Force skill-levels.
    1.3.3. Individual: the basic building block upon which all C-CBRN capability is realized.
    This is where the preponderance of Airmen, regardless of rank or AFSC affiliation, possesses
    sufficient knowledge of, and competence in, CBRN operating environments. To ensure the
    ability to not only survive but to operate in a CBRN environment, and our inability to predict
    with 100% certainty where an adversary will use CBRN against an airbase, the broadest
    foundational (or universal) level of understanding and ability is needed in our Airmen.
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                                                                                                                                     5


   1.3.4. Specialized Expertise: those within certain USAF communities who provide the
   underpinning science, equipment acquisition and procurement, or innovative solutions to
   defeat the CBRN challenge. Figure 1.1.provides a graphic depiction from an integrated
   operational context.

Figure1.1 Integrated Operational Context.

                           Integrated Operational Context
                                                           Robust C-CBRN Capability
                                          Integrated “Whole-base” Approach
                                     (results in sortie generation and cargo throughput)                                                                                                          Exercises
     Command and Control




                                                                                                                                                                    Aircrew Operations
                                                                     Security Forces




                                                                                                                                        Transportation
                                          Civil Engineer




                                                                                                           Maintenance
                           Intelligence




                                                                                           Munitions




                                                                                                                                                         Chaplain
                                                                                                                             Services
                                                           Medical




                                                                                                                                                                                         Others
                                                                                       P               M                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Training



                                                             Functional Schoolhouses
                                          Accession Programs (BMT / Officer)




   1.3.5. (Added) Civilians, Contractors and Dependents: civilians, contractors and dependents
   who work or live at an Air Force installation should have a basic understanding of C-CBRN
   operations. This AFMAN identifies competencies for emergency-essential and non-
   emergency-essential CCDs as appropriate. Attachment 5 delineates competencies that apply
   to emergency-essential and senior leader civilians and to contractor employees performing
   essential contractor services; Attachment 6 focuses on non-emergency-essential civilians and
   other contractors; and Attachment 7 outlines competencies for dependents. Dependents
   should be provided with basic C-CBRN knowledge on a non-mandatory basis, using any and
   all available means. Note: While this AFMAN identifies ETE competencies appropriate for
   contractor employees, it does not alter responsibility for ETE for any particular contract or
   contractor employee; ETE requirements must be implemented through the applicable
   contract.
1.4. C-CBRN ETE Methodology. To institutionalize Air Force C-CBRN operational
capability, a four-step methodology for C-CBRN ETE was adopted: competency development;
baseline evaluation; gap identification/assessment; and implementation. Additional iterations of
the C-CBRN ETE methodology are conducted on a three-year basis, or as directed by the Air
Force C-CBRN Council.
6                                                                AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


    1.4.1. Competency Development – A measurable cluster of knowledge, skills, abilities or
    other attributes (KSAs) an individual must possess in order to successfully perform
    consistent with a given task, condition and standard.
       1.4.1.1. Focus Working Group. A focus working group consisting of Air Force and
       other selected subject matter experts (SMEs) whose knowledge, experience and
       responsibilities contribute directly to C-CBRN operational capability will convene. The
       SMEs identify the KSAs that must be educated, trained and exercised by the Air Force to
       realize its desired C-CBRN operational capabilities. The focus working group generates
       an initial C-CBRN ETE competency list (CL).
       1.4.1.2. CL Roll-Up. Once the focus working group has produced an initial CL, the
       specific C-CBRN ETE competencies are edited for redundancy and accuracy. The C-
       CBRN ETE competencies are then prioritized, with their contribution to operational
       capability and mission accomplishment as the primary criteria. Education levels of
       learning and training proficiency codes are determined and applied against the
       appropriate Air Force grade band(s) (e.g., E-1 – E-3) for each competency. Finally, each
       C-CBRN ETE competency is examined to determine whether the Air Force should
       exercise this knowledge or skill. Attachment 2 details the levels of learning and
       proficiency codes for each C-CBRN ETE competency. Attachment 3 articulates
       exercise requirements by competency.
       1.4.1.3. CL Adjudication and Coordination. Following ― roll-up‖ of the C-CBRN ETE
       competencies, the CL is entered into coordination with comments adjudicated by the
       Headquarters Air Force (HAF). Such CLs provide the basis to update this manual.
    1.4.2. Baseline Evaluation – Education and training stakeholders determine the current level
    of C-CBRN ETE within their domain.
    1.4.3. Gap Identification and Assessment – Education and training stakeholders compare
    existing baselines with defined C-CBRN ETE competencies to identify shortfalls within their
    domain. The gap assessment provides potential corrective actions and identifies resources
    required to eliminate those shortfalls.
    1.4.4. Implementation – An approved implementation plan completes the C-CBRN ETE
    methodology by outlining steps necessary to institutionalize KSAs contributing to Air Force
    C-CBRN operational capability.
1.5. Competency Application. The C-CBRN ETE competencies herein represent the KSAs
that apply to Senior Leaders and Individuals (Airmen), regardless of functional specialty. Some
apply to Airmen at all grade levels, some apply to a broad range of grade levels, and others apply
to a narrow range of grade levels. In addition, select competencies apply to emergency-essential
and non-emergency-essential civilians, contractors and dependents. Educators, trainers and
exercise planners will refer to attachments 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7 of this document, and integrate the
CCBRN ETE competencies most appropriate for their operational or functional needs.
    1.5.1. Though some C-CBRN ETE competencies appear to be functional in nature, the intent
    of the focus working groups was to identify universal KSAs and create C-CBRN ETE
    competencies which apply broadly across the Air Force.
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                      7


   1.5.2. Air Force Career Field Managers (CFMs) will determine which of these C-CBRN
   ETE competencies apply to their specific career field, and incorporate them into their
   existing Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) as foundational KSAs. In a
   related but separate and parallel action, CFMs will determine "functional-specific" and
   "specialized-expertise" requirements that support individual elements of the USAF C-CBRN
   CONOPS, as they are released by the AF/A3/5 (i.e., Counter-Chemical Warfare, Counter-
   Biological Warfare and Counter-Radiological Warfare). These requirements build upon the
   foundational KSAs. Furthermore, the CFM should consider reviewing these requirements as
   part of the Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) process. To aid the CFMs in this
   task, the related references to each C-CBRN ETE competency are listed in Attachment 4.
   1.5.3. New C-CBRN training that is non-AFSC specific will be vetted and approved through
   the corporate review process detailed in AFI 36-2201, Volume 6, Total Force Training and
   Education Review Process (TFTERP).
1.6. Educational Levels of Learning and Training Proficiency Codes. The educational levels
of learning in this manual use an adaptation of Bloom’s cognitive taxonomy as outlined in
AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors. The training proficiency codes in this
manual follow the guidance contained in AFI 36-2201, Volume 5, Air Force Training Program
Career Field Education and Training. Both the levels of learning and proficiency codes for the
C-CBRN ETE competencies are outlined in Attachment 2. The C-CBRN ETE competencies
and educational/training levels of learning represent Air Force requirements that are met
collectively through various education and training venues across the Air Force, including formal
education (PME) and technical training; MAJCOM-level, base-level, other Service and other
federal agency education and training; and appropriate civilian academic institutions.
1.7. Exercise Competencies. The exercise C-CBRN ETE competencies listed in Attachment 3
should be incorporated into exercises, wargames and experiments to validate education and
training programs and allow individuals to demonstrate their learned skills.
1.8. Air Force Institutional Competency List (ICL). The C-CBRN ETE competencies
contained within attachment 3 support the Air Force Institutional Competency ―
                                                                             Employing
Military Capabilities‖ as outlined in the Air Force ICL.
8                                                              AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                                          Chapter 2

                            ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. HQ USAF.
    2.1.1. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) will
    establish policy, guidance and procedures for C-CBRN ETE. AF/A3/5 will oversee C-
    CBRN ETE competency development, the implementation of corrective actions required to
    enable C-CBRN operational capability and develop a C-CBRN ETE funding strategy.
    2.1.2. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) will provide
    appropriate military and civilian education and training policy oversight and guidance in
    support of the C-CBRN ETE methodology process.
    2.1.3. Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7) will
    provide guidance and expertise throughout the execution of the C-CBRN ETE methodology
    for non-medical PD, CM and force protection AD. AF/A4/7 will incorporate the contents of
    this manual into its plans and policies as appropriate. In coordination with AF/SG, AF/A4/7
    will review all PD, CM and force protection AD training for accuracy and consistency with
    C-CBRN guidance.
    2.1.4. Surgeon General (AF/SG) will provide guidance and expertise throughout the
    execution of the C-CBRN ETE methodology for medical PD and CM. AF/SG will
    incorporate the contents of this manual into its plans and policies as appropriate. In
    coordination with AF/A4/7, AF/SG will review all PD and CM training for accuracy and
    consistency with C-CBRN guidance.
2.2. Major Commands/Direct Reporting Units.
    2.2.1. Headquarters, Air Education and Training Command (AETC/A5/8) will serve as co
    lead with AF/A3/5 for C-CBRN ETE. AETC will oversee the baseline evaluation and gap
    identification/assessment steps of the C-CBRN ETE methodology, assist AF/A3/5 during the
    implementation of the ETE methodology and the development of the funding strategy, and
    provide education and training integration expertise and guidance.
    2.2.2. All MAJCOMs/DRUs/FOAs will incorporate the applicable C-CBRN ETE
    competencies found in this manual into their education and training programs and
    MAJCOM-level exercises, commensurate with their unique mission areas, the potential
    impact of CBRN on those missions, and available resources.        Additionally, all
    MAJCOM/CVs will appoint a representative with C-CBRN operational experience to
    support C-CBRN ETE and provide SMEs for C-CBRN ETE competency development as
    necessary.
2.3. Installations. As directed by their MAJCOM/DRU, Air Force installations will apply the
contents of this manual to ensure local education, training and exercise events reinforce the C-
CBRN ETE competencies listed in Attachment 2.
2.4. Additional Units.
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                       9


  2.4.1. Headquarters, Air University, Chief Academic Office, (AU/CF) will provide oversight
  for C-CBRN curricula integration. AU/CF, in support of AETC, will also provide
  educational expertise and guidance throughout execution of the C-CBRN ETE methodology.
  2.4.2. Headquarters, Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA), in support of
  AF/A4/7, will provide non-medical PD and CM expertise and guidance throughout execution
  of the C-CBRN ETE methodology. AFCESA will incorporate the contents of this manual
  into its plans and policies as appropriate. AFCESA will also support AF/A4/7 as the Air
  Force certifying official for all proposed changes to PD and CM courses listed in AFI 10-
  2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations. In
  coordination with AFMOA, AFCESA will review all PD and CM training for accuracy and
  consistency with C-CBRN guidance.
  2.4.3. Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA), in support of AF/SG, will provide
  medical C-CBRN expertise and guidance throughout execution of the C-CBRN ETE
  methodology, and will incorporate the contents of this manual into its plans and policies as
  appropriate. AFMOA will also support AF/SG’s role as reviewer of all PD and CM training
  for accuracy and consistency with C-CBRN guidance.
  2.4.4. Air Force Counterproliferation Center (AF/CPC) will provide C-CBRN expertise and
  guidance throughout execution of the C-CBRN ETE methodology and serve as the
  curriculum certifying official for C-CBRN education learning objectives consistent with its
  CSAF charter as the Air Force counterproliferation information depository and
  clearinghouse. As such, the CPC will confirm the technical accuracy of all CBRN
  educational materials presented within Air University.
  2.4.5. United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) will incorporate the contents of this
  manual into its curricula, training and exercises as appropriate.
  2.4.6. Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Teams (WMD-CST) members in each of
  the 54 states and territories should incorporate the contents of this manual into its curricula,
  training and exercises as appropriate.
10                                                              AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                                           Chapter 3

                        C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCY OVERVIEW

Competency Overview.
Educators, trainers and exercise developers will use the appropriate C-CBRN ETE competencies
listed in Attachment 2 to develop C-CBRN curricula, training materials and exercise events.
The associated levels of learning and proficiency codes also detailed in Attachment 2 are the
minimum standard. AETC must ensure that curriculum developers and lesson planners for all
AFSC-awarding courses adhere to the specific competency requirements applicable to their
students and monitor those requirements for incorporation into the appropriate course materials.
Education, training and exercise stakeholders may exceed these standards at their discretion,
based upon the competencies’ applicability to their respective functional area(s) or mission(s).
All competencies contribute to the Air Force’s ability to operate in any CBRN environment.

This chapter contains twenty-two C-CBRN categories (e.g., 3.1.) which serve as general
definitions and categorizers of the C-CBRN ETE competencies for C-CBRN operations listed in
Attachment 2. The definitions within this chapter provide a greater understanding of the logic
behind each C-CBRN ETE competency.

The C-CBRN ETE competencies for C-CBRN operations contained within this manual
supersede any preceding AF/A3/5-approved C-CBRN ETE competencies.

3.1. C-CBRN Terminology. C-CBRN terms must be understood by all Airmen, including the
ability to define terms associated with the C-CBRN operational spectrum.
3.2. C-CBRN Doctrine, Policy and Guidance. Air Force and Joint doctrine provide the
foundation of C-CBRN operations; therefore Airmen must understand that doctrine in order to
engage in effective C-CBRN activities and operations. Airmen must understand how Air Force
and Joint policy and plans guide their C-CBRN actions. Base/installation plans, as well as those
of local municipalities, must also be understood. Doctrine, policy, and guidance ensure uniform
preparation for and response to CBRN attacks and are an essential component of C-CBRN
operations.
3.3. Adversary CBRN Intelligence. Determining CBRN capability must be part of any
assessment of enemy order of battle and our airmen must be educated and trained on the threat
they face. Given the unconventional nature of CBRN, further analysis is crucial to determining
an appropriate force protection level and elevating the alertness of Airmen. Many CBRN
deployment and employment scenarios are unconventional, and Airmen must recognize an
enemy's desire to degrade the Air Force's C-CBRN capability through denial, deception and
clandestine attack. Airmen should be familiar with various possible methods of unconventional
production, storage, mobilization and attack, and understand enemy capability and practice.
3.4. C-CBRN Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR). Airmen must understand
the role of ISR in C-CBRN, and those Airmen with ISR roles and responsibilities should have a
thorough understanding of their contributions to C-CBRN operations. Intelligence contributes to
all C-CBRN operations, but has greatest significance during the doctrinally-defined activities in
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                      11


the pillars of PP, CF and AD. ISR facilitates and improves all activities and operations
contributing to PP, CF and AD, and all Airmen must recognize this fact and understand why it is
so.
3.5. C-CBRN Planning. While standard planning processes will be utilized in preparation for
C-CBRN activities and operations, Airmen must recognize the extraordinary nature of these
activities and operations. All Airmen must recognize that CBRN warfare has the potential to
affect almost every aspect of their missions, and they should approach their planning activities
accordingly. While knowledge of the C-CBRN operational spectrum is an important foundation,
Airmen will require substantially greater familiarity with the impact of CBRN on their existing
missions, as well as its impact on inherently C-CBRN missions, in order to succeed.
3.6. C-CBRN Reachback. In the event of a CBRN attack, commanders and those with
specialized responsibility for C-CBRN must realize that the Air Force, DoD, federal government
and other institutions and organizations may be able to provide expert assistance in shaping an
effective response to the CBRN attack. Such reachback may even be employed before a CBRN
attack, during the planning stages, and may run the gamut from civilian augmentees to technical
analysis and from the provision of specialized equipment to sharing of best practices. However,
in order for these essential reachback assets to be utilized, Airmen, especially commanders, and
those with specialized C-CBRN responsibilities must understand how to contact the disparate C-
CBRN reachback resources available. C-CBRN reachback will improve operational capability
during all phases of the C-CBRN spectrum (e.g., CF, CM), and during all phases (e.g., planning,
execution) thereof.
3.7. C-CBRN Preparation. Virtually all activities and operations conducted by the Air Force
will be affected in a CBRN environment and all Airmen must understand how to perform and
succeed under such conditions. Airmen need to recognize that CBRN threats or attacks
complicate military operations. To succeed under these conditions the Air Force must plan,
educate, train and exercise for operations in a CBRN environment.
3.8. C-CBRN Command and Control. Air Force commanders at all levels must be
sufficiently familiar with C-CBRN activities, operations and Command & Control so that they
are able to execute their mission in a CBRN environment. The stress of operating in CBRN
environments demands that commanders have a substantial understanding of CBRN events and
environments, as well as a demonstrated aptitude in responding to those environments.
Commanders need to apply Operational Risk Management (ORM) when planning, commanding,
controlling and executing C-CBRN operations and understand the availability of C-CBRN
reachback capability.
3.9. C-CBRN Communication. The efficient delivery of timely, targeted and accurate
information across the chain of command, to operators, local communities and dependents,
facilitates effective C-CBRN operations. A lack of such communication will hamper all aspects
of C-CBRN operations.
3.10. C-CBRN Strike Operations. Airmen will apply the Air Force's targeting process to C-
CBRN attack/strike operations. This targeting process (i.e., "kill chain") is comprised of six
complementary activities: find, fix, track, target, engage and assess. This targeting process, and
strike operations in general, is a core Air Force capability. However, C-CBRN attack/strike
operations present unique complications and considerations. Among those considerations are the
presumed time-sensitivity of many CBRN targets; the varied forms and locations in which
12                                                              AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


CBRN targets may appear; unusual ROE given the extraordinary collateral damage, post-strike
effects issues and environmental factors bearing upon those effects; appropriate weapons
employment to achieve the desired end state; and complicated post-strike bomb damage
assessment (BDA). Per doctrine, the Air Force must be able to detect, deter, deny, degrade or
destroy enemy CBRN targets. These activities may take place under the auspices of strategic
attack, counterair, counterland, countersea, and information operations. Given the threat posed
by CBRN, C-CBRN attack/strike operations present unique planning considerations in the areas
of operational risk, ISR needs, targeting and weaponeering challenges, and legal issues.
3.11. C-CBRN Force Protection (FP). FP is a core C-CBRN activity. Many CBRN attacks
may be carried out in a clandestine or asymmetric manner. Airmen must have a broader
understanding of the security forces’ C-CBRN roles and responsibilities, and demonstrate that
understanding and to maintain sufficient readiness.
3.12. C-CBRN FP Planning. A CBRN attack may be carried out in a clandestine or
asymmetric manner, making prevention more difficult. Airmen must remain attuned to their
environment. Those responsible for FP and installation security must regularly examine that
environment for threats/factors which create or increase vulnerability to CBRN attack. The
environment in question covers the installation, all avenues of approach to the installation, and
local municipalities, populations and zones.
3.13. C-CBRN Medical Activities. Airmen must be able to conduct basic medical treatment of
CBRN casualties. Effective C-CBRN medical activities are essential to sustaining and/or
restoring operations. There are several unique CBRN medical considerations, including
behavioral casualties and long-term monitoring of personnel exposed to CBRN agents. While all
Airmen should be able to recognize the symptoms of CBRN exposure, those with specialized
medical roles must have a sophisticated understanding of such symptoms and their causes, and
must also monitor the local environment, especially local populations, for CBRN exposure that
could be a threat to Airmen. Other medical activities such as material/environmental testing,
health risk assessments/advising on health risk management and installation vulnerability
assessments must also be considered.
3.14. C-CBRN Medical Planning. The Air Force medical community will be a primary player
in almost any C-CBRN operation. The unique potential for harm associated with CBRN attacks
necessitates an engaged and educated medical community, and requires that Airmen appreciate
the contributions of that community to effective C-CBRN operations. Many effects of CBRN
will not be immediately recognizable or will continue to affect victims for extended periods. For
example, many biological warfare agents are designed to be highly contagious, requiring
restriction of movement, as well as prophylaxis and/or therapeutics to limit illnesses for Air
Force personnel and reduce operational degrades. Because of these unique factors and the
relatively infrequent incidence of CBRN warfare, the potential for behavioral casualties looms as
a substantial complicating factor in C-CBRN medical activities. All Airmen must be familiar
with C-CBRN medical issues and the contributions of the Air Force medical community, but
those with specialized medical expertise require focused, reinforced C-CBRN ETE within their
specialties.
3.15. C-CBRN Equipment and Procedures. Airmen must understand the importance and
limitations of C-CBRN equipment to their survival and ability to operate in a CBRN
environment. Airmen must be able to perform their jobs regardless of the environment. In
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                      13


addition to demonstrating the ability to perform their roles at all levels of mission-oriented
protective posture (MOPP), Airmen must also understand and demonstrate installation protection
and decontamination activities, including detection, sheltering and contamination control.
3.16. C-CBRN Warning Systems. Airmen must be familiar with the spectrum of warning
systems they may encounter in their unit's AOR, as well as with how to respond to those
systems. This includes familiarity with alarm conditions and protective postures and changes to
those system notifications.
3.17. C-CBRN Activities. Airmen at all levels must demonstrate appropriate C-CBRN
capabilities at regular intervals. Those capabilities must be demonstrated across the entire
CWMD operational spectrum and not be limited to protective/PD activities.
3.18. C-CBRN Operational Spectrum. All Airmen have roles within this operational
spectrum, but some C-CBRN activities are performed exclusively by specialized teams or select
groups of Airmen. All Airmen must understand their potential roles during C-CBRN operations
and understand Air Force capabilities.
3.19. C-CBRN Reporting. Airmen must understand the reporting system, the actions they
would be expected to take in a given CBRN scenario and the potential legal considerations
involved in the discovery of a CBRN attack.
3.20. C-CBRN Interoperability. Airmen must have demonstrated expertise in conducting C-
CBRN operations with other US Services, Allies, Coalition, federal, state, tribal and local
partners, as well as their ANG and Reserve components. Effective Joint, Allied, Coalition,
interagency and Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA) cooperation deter adversaries’
CBRN employment. Such cooperation involves: the creation and execution of memoranda of
agreement/understanding (MOA/MOU); sharing of intelligence; understanding of external
policies, procedures, terminology and equipment; effective communication; and trust, among
other ingredients critical to successful C-CBRN operations.
3.21. CBRN Characteristics. Effective C-CBRN operations and activities require that Airmen
be familiar with many aspects of CBRN elements and agents. This familiarity covers CBRN and
environmental effects (e.g., weather and terrain). Airmen must also understand CBRN effects
upon populations, installations, equipment and operations, and be able to discriminate between
chemical (to include toxic industrial chemical/toxic industrial material (TIC/TIM)), biological
agents, radiological devices and nuclear weapons. All Airmen should be able to recognize the
indicators of a CBRN attack, while Airmen in specialized roles need a greater familiarity with
CBRN weapons, to include sources, precursors, and production, storage and delivery methods.
3.22. CBRN Mitigation. In order to sustain operations in a CBRN environment, Airmen need
to understand how to prevent and mitigate CBRN effects, and understand the CBRN
environment in which they may need to operate. Airmen must understand not only CBRN
detection in its varied forms, but also appropriate responses upon detection. Appreciating the
different responses appropriate for CBRN attacks is essential to taking quick, effective action to
prevent an attack from severely damaging Air Force operational capability. Some mitigation
actions may involve medical prophylaxis and/or therapeutics, while others place greater
emphasis on sheltering/collective protection, or IPE/PPE and decontamination. Airmen must
understand the potential for extended operating periods in a CBRN environment.
14                                                         AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


3.23. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
     3.23.1. Adopted Forms. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                          DANIEL J. DARNELL, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                  15


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 2-1.2, Strategic Attack, 30 September 2003
AFDD 2-1.8, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations, 26 January
2007
AFDD 2-1.9, Targeting, 8 June 2006
AFDD 2-4.1, Force Protection, 29 October 1999
AFDD 2-5.2, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations, 21 April 1999
AFDD 2-8, Command and Control, 1 June 2007
AFDD 2-9, Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance Operations, 17 July 2007
AFDD 2-10, Homeland Operations, 21 March 2006
AFH 10-222V1, Guide to Bare Base Development, 1 February 2006
AFH 10-2502, USAF Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Threat Planning and Response
Handbook, 30 October 2001
AFI 10-211, Civil Engineer Contingency Response Planning, 6 April 2006
AFI 10-215, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO), 3 December 2002
AFI 10-218, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with National Emergencies or Natural
Disasters, 31 October 2006
AFI 10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism Standards, Interim Change 2, 24 August 2007
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations,
Interim Change 1, 28 September 2007
AFI 10-2603, Emergency Health Powers on Air Force Installations, 7 December 2005
AFI 10-2604, Disease Containment Planning Guidance, 6 April 2007
AFI 13-1AOCV3, Operational Procedures—Air and Space Operations Center, 1 August 2005
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 16 April 2007
AFI 14-117, Air Force Targeting, 1 July 1998
AFI 14-119, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 16 April 2007
AFI 24-405, DoD Foreign Clearance Guide, 6 May 1994
AFI 31-301, Air Base Defense, 15 May 2002
AFI 32-3001, Explosive Ordinance Disposal Program, 10 October 2007
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Air Force Training Program Training Development, Delivery, and
Evaluation, 1 October 2002
16                                                            AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


AFI 36-2201, Volume 5, Air Force Training Program Career Field Education and Training, 8
June 2004
AFI 36-2201, Volume 6, Air Force Training Program Total Force Training and Education
Review Process, 27 September 2002
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health
or Military Significance, 1 Mar 2005
AFI 51-402, Weapons Review, 13 May 1994
AFI 90-901, Implementing Department of Defense Issuances, 6 January 2006
AFJI 11-204, Operational Procedures for Aircraft Carrying Hazardous Materials, 11 November
2004
AFJI 24-210, Packaging of Hazardous Material, 22 October 2007
AFJI 48-104, Quarantine Regulations of the Armed Forces, 24 January 1992
AFJM 32-4003, Technical Aspects of Biological Defense, January 1971
AFMAN 10-100, Airman’s Manual, 1 June 2004
AFMAN 10-2602, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Conventional (NBCC) Defense
Operations and Standards, 29 May 2003
AFMAN 16-601, International Affairs and Security Assistance Management, 20 June 2003
AFMAN 16-602, The Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) Tracking and Reporting System
(STARS) User Manual, 18 December 2000
AFMAN 32-4005, Personnel Protection and Attack Actions, 30 October 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, 12 November 2003
AFMAN 44-156, (I), Treatment of Biological Warfare Agent Casualties, 17 Jul 2000
AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment, 28 March 2004
AFMAN 48-154, Occupational and Environmental Health Site Assessment, 28 March 2007
AFPAM 10-219V1, Contingency and Disaster Planning, 1 December 1995
AFPAM 14-210, USAF Intelligence Targeting Guide, 1 February 1998
AFPD 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support, 7 September 2006
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 September 2007
AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations, 26
September 2007
AFPD 10-35, Battlefield Airmen, 4 February 2005
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007.
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                       17


AFPD 16-6, Arms Control Agreements, 25 Feb 2004
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2007
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health, 1 September 2004
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000
AFTTP 3-10.1, Integrated Base Defense, 20 August 2004
AFTTP (I) 3-2.32, Multiservice Procedures for Explosive Ordnance Disposal in a Joint
Environment, 13 February 2003
AFTTP (I) 3-2.33, Multiservice Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Installation CBRN
Defense, 6 November 2007
AFTTP (I) 3-2.37, Multiservice Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Nuclear, Biological,
and Chemical Aspects of Consequence Management, 12 December 2001
AFTTP (I) 3-2.42, Multiservice Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Nuclear, Biological,
and Chemical Defense Operations, 10 March 2003
AFTTP (I) 3-2.46, Multiservice Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Nuclear Biological, and
Chemical (NBC) Protection, 2 June 2003
AFTTP (I) 3-2.60, Multiservice Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Chemical, Biological,
Radiological and Nuclear Decontamination, 1 April 2006
AFTTP (I) 3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation, 1 November 2003
Air Force Strategic Plan 2006-2008
AMC C-CBRN CONOPS, 16 May 2005
AMCP 10-260, Civil Reserve Air Fleet Aircrew Chemical-Biological Warfare Defense
Procedures, 16 May 2005
CJCSI 3121.01A, Standing Rules of Engagement for US Forces, 15 January 2000
CJCSI 3125.01, Military Assistance to Domestic Consequence Management Operations in
Response to a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, or High-Yield Explosive Situation,
August 3, 2001
CJCSI 3520.02A, Proliferation Security Initiative Activity Program, 1 March 2007
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2
DoD Directive 2060.2, Department of Defense (DoD) Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction
(WMD) Policy, 19 April 2007
DoDD 5240.1, DoD Intelligence Activities, 27 August 2007
DoD 5240.1R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components that Affect
United States Persons, December 1982
DoDD 5148.11, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Oversight, 21 May 2004
DoDI 2000.18, Department of Defense Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
and High-Yield Explosive Emergency Response Guidelines, 4 Dec 2002.
18                                                             AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


DoDI 2000.21, Foreign Consequence Management (FCM), 10 March 2006
Global Strike Joint Integrating Concept Version 1.0, 10 Jan 2005
HSPD 4, National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction, December 2002
HSPD 8, National Preparedness, 17 December 2003
The National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction, 13 February 2006
Joint Vision 2020, June 2000
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 4 Mar 2008
JP 2-0, Joint Intelligence, 22 June 2007
JP 3-0, Joint Operations, 13 February 2008
JP 3-07.5, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Noncombatant Evacuation Operations,
30 September 1997
JP 3-11, Joint Doctrine for Operations in Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical (NBC)
Environments, 11 July 2000
JP 3-17, Joint Doctrine and Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Air Mobility
Operations, 14 August 2002
JP 3-35, Deployment and Redeployment Operations, 7 May 2007
JP 3-40, Joint Doctrine for Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 July 2004
JP 3-41, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosives Consequence
Management, 2 October 2006
JP 3-55, Doctrine for Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition Support for Joint
Operations, 14 April 1993
JP 4-06, Mortuary Affairs in Joint Operations, 5 June 2006
MCM 0026-02, Chemical Warfare (CW) Agent Exposure Planning Guidance, 26 April 2002
PDD – 39, U.S. Policy on Counterterrorism, 21 June 1995
PDD – 62, Protection Against Unconventional Threats to the Homeland and Americans
Overseas, 22 May 1998
STANAG 2426, Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Management Doctrine for
NATO Forces, 8 August 2007
USTRANSCOM /TCCC Memo, Policy for Patient Movement of Contaminated, Contagious, or
Potentially Exposed Casualties, 14 March 2008
Engineer Technical Letter 1110-3-490, Design of Chemical Agent Collective Protection Shelters
for New and Existing Facilities, 13 May 1998
Federal Response Plan, Terrorism Annex, April 1999
Formal Test Report for the Large Frame Aircraft Decontamination Demonstration, U.S Army
Dugway Proving Ground, December 2004
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                    19


Joint Program Executive Office, Joint Requirements Office (JRO), Joint Strike Fighter Chem Bio
Review, 2 April 2008
National Response Framework, 22 March 2008
Strategy for Homeland Defense and Civil Support, June 2005
Global Strike Joint Integrating Concept, Version 1.0, 10 January 2005
JRO CBRND Functional Needs Analysis (FSA), Functional Solutions Analysis (FSA), 11 July
2000
29 CFR 1910.120(q), Hazardous waste operations and emergency response, 1 July 2004
TO 00-110A-1, Guidelines for Identification and Handling of Acft and Material Contaminated
with Radioactive Debris (Fallout), 31 March 2002
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and
Procedures, 30 April 2003
TO 11C15-1-3, Chemical Decontamination, Detection and Disposal of Decontaminating Agents,
28 Feb 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD— Active Defense
AFCESA— Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFDD— Air Force Doctrine Document
AETC— Air Education and Training Command
AFCFM— Air Force Career Field Manager
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFIMS— Air Force Incident Management System
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFMOA— Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
ANG— Air National Guard
AOC— Air Operations Center
AOR— Area of Responsibility
APOD— Aerial Port of Debarkation
APOE— Aerial Port of Embarkation
AU— Air University
BDA— Bomb Damage Assessment
C2— Command and Control
20                                                        AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


CAOC— Combined Air Operations Center
CBRN— Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear
CBRN— Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear
CEMP— Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
CF— Counterforce
CFETP— Career Field Education and Training Plan
CL— Competency List
CM— Consequence Management
COA— Course of Action
CONOPS— Concept of Operations
CONUS— Continental United States
CPC— Counterproliferation Center
CSAF— Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
CWMD— Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction
DOD— Department of Defense
DRU— Direct Reporting Unit
DSCA— Defense Support of Civil Authorities
EM— Emergency Management
ETE— Education, Training, and Exercise
FCM— Foreign Consequence Management
FOA— Field Operating Agency
FP— Force Protection
FPCON— Force Protection Condition
HN— Host Nation
HQ— Headquarters
ICL— Institutional Competency List
IO— Information Operations
IPE— Individual Protection Equipment
ISR— Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
KSA— Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
MAJCOM— Major Command
MOA— Memorandum of Agreement
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                       21


MOPP— Mission-Oriented Protective Posture
MOU— Memorandum of Understanding
NEO— Non-combatant Evacuation Operation
NIMS— National Incident Management System
NRP— National Response Plan
OCONUS— Outside the Continental United States
OPLAN— Operational Plan
OPORD— Operational Order
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM— Operational Risk Management
PD— Passive Defense
PHEO— Public Health Emergency Officer
PP— Proliferation Prevention
PPE— Personal Protective Equipment
ROE— Rules of Engagement
SABC— Self-Aid and Buddy Care
SME— Subject Matter Expert/Expertise
SOF— Special Operations Forces
TIC/TIM— Toxic Industrial Chemical/Toxic Industrial Material
TTP— Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
USAF— United States Air Force
USAFA— United States Air Force Academy
WMD— Weapons of Mass Destruction

Terms
Active Defense— The employment of limited offensive action and counterattacks to deny a
contested area or position to the enemy. (JP 1-02). Also called AD. [Active defense operations
attempt to intercept CBRN weapons en route to their targets.] (AFDD 2-1.8) {Words in brackets
apply only to the Air Force and are offered for clarity.}.
Air Force Career Field Manager— The Air Force focal point for the designated career field
within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing
issues and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field
policy and guidance. Also called AFCFM. (AFI36-2201)
Air Force Emergency Management Program— The single, integrated Air Force program to
coordinate and organize efforts to manage, prepare for, respond to and recover from the direct
and indirect consequences of CBRN and conventional weapon attacks, major accidents and
22                                                               AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


natural disasters. The primary missions of the emergency management program are to save lives,
minimize the loss or degradation of resources and continue, sustain and restore combat and
combat support operational capability in an ―   all hazards‖ physical threat environment at Air
Force installations worldwide. The ancillary missions of the program are to support homeland
security operations and to provide support to civil and host-nation authorities in accordance with
DOD directives and through the appropriate combatant command. The program is managed by
the Office of The Civil Engineer, AF/A7C. (AFDD 2-1.8)
Air Interdiction— Air operations conducted to divert, disrupt, delay, or destroy the enemy's
military potential before it can be brought to bear effectively against friendly forces, or to
otherwise achieve objectives. Air interdiction is conducted at such distance from friendly forces
that detailed integration of each air mission with the fire and movement of friendly forces is not
required.Source: JP 3-0
Airman— Any US Air Force member (officer or enlisted, active, reserve, or guard, along with
Department of the Air Force civilians) who supports and defends the US Constitution and serves
our country. Air Force Airmen are those people who formally belong to the US Air Force and
employ or support some aspect of the US Air Force’s air and space power capabilities. The term
Airman is often used in a very narrow sense to mean pilot. An Airman is any person who
understands and appreciates the full range of air and space power capabilities and can employ or
support some aspect of air and space power capabilities. (AFDD 1-1)
Area of Responsibility— The geographical area associated with a combatant command within
which a combatant commander has authority to plan and conduct operations. Also called AOR.
(JP 1-02)
Battlespace— The environment, factors and conditions that must be understood to successfully
apply combat power, protect the force, or complete the mission. This includes air, land, sea,
space and the included enemy and friendly forces; facilities; weather; terrain; the electromagnetic
spectrum; and the information environment within the operational areas and areas of interest. (JP
1-02)
Biological Agent— A microorganism that causes disease in personnel, plants or animals or
causes the deterioration of materiel. (JP 1-02).
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)— A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support
resources and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. (AFI36-2201).
Chemical Agent— Any toxic chemical intended for use in military operations. (JP 1-02) [A
chemical substance which is intended for use in military operations to kill, seriously injure or
incapacitate personnel through its physiological effects. The term excludes riot control agents,
herbicides, smoke and flame.] (AFDD 2-1.8) {Words in brackets apply only to the Air Force and
are offered for clarity.}
Coalition— An ad hoc arrangement between two or more nations for common action. (JP 1-02)
Command and Control— The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command
and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment,
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                        23


communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing,
coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission. Also
called C2. (JP 1-02)
Competencies— Clusters of knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) and attributes an individual
possesses to successfully perform consistent with a given task, condition, and standard.
C-CBRN ETE Competencies— KSAs that must be educated, trained and exercised by the Air
Force to realize its desired C-CBRN operational capabilities.
C—CBRN ETE Competency List — A HQ USAF/A3/5-approved list, developed by subject
matter experts, of knowledge, skills and abilities contributing to C-CBRN operational capability,
organized by doctrinal pillar of operations (i.e., PP, CF, AD, PD and CM).
Consequence Management— Actions taken to maintain or restore essential services and
manage and mitigate problems resulting from disasters and catastrophes, including natural,
manmade or terrorist incidents. Also called CM. (JP 1-02) [CM activities serve to reduce the
effects of a CBRN attack or event and assist in the restoration of essential operations and
services at home and abroad in a permissive environment.] (AFDD 2-1.8) {Words in brackets
apply only to the Air Force and are offered for clarity.}
Contamination— The deposit, absorption or adsorption of radioactive material, or of biological
or chemical agents on or by structures, areas, personnel or objects. (JP 1-02)
Contamination Control— Procedures to avoid, remove or render harmless (temporarily or
permanently) nuclear, biological and chemical contamination for the purpose of maintaining or
enhancing the efficient conduct of military operations. (JP 1-02)
Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear— Activities taken to detect, deter,
disrupt, deny or destroy an adversary’s CBRN capabilities and to minimize the effects of an
enemy CBRN attack. Note: The interlinked components of C-CBRN operations are PP, CF, AD,
PD and CM. Also called C-CBRN. (AFDD 2-1.8)
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Environment— A condition of
warfare in which an adversary possesses or uses nuclear, radiological, biological and/or chemical
weapons, by-products, infrastructure and associated delivery methods. (AFDD 2-1.8)
Counterforce— The employment of strategic air and missile forces in an effort to destroy, or
render impotent, selected military capabilities of an enemy force under any of the circumstances
by which hostilities may be initiated. Also called CF. (JP 1-02) [CF operations aim to detect,
deter, deny, degrade or destroy adversary CBRN capabilities including research and
development, production and storage facilities, fielded forces, and related C2.] (AFDD 2-1.8)
{Words in brackets apply only to the Air Force and are offered for clarity.}
Counterproliferation— Those actions (e.g., detect and monitor, prepare to conduct
counterproliferation operations, offensive operations, weapons of mass destruction, AD and PD)
taken to defeat the threat and/or use of weapons of mass destruction against the United States,
our military forces, friends and allies. Also called CP. See also nonproliferation. (JP 1-02)
Doctrine— Fundamental principles by which the military forces or elements thereof guide their
actions in support of national objectives. It is authoritative but requires judgment in application.
(JP 1–02)
24                                                               AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


Education— Instruction and study focused on creative problem solving that does not provide
predictable outcomes. Education encompasses a broader flow of information to the student and
encourages exploration into unknown areas and creative problem solving. (AFDD 1-1)
Emergency-Essential Civilian and Employees Performing Essential Contractor Services—
A civilian employee position-based designation to support the success of combat operations or
the availability of combat-essential systems in accordance with Title 10 United States Code
Section 1580 or a contractor employee performing an essential contract service as defined in
DoDI 3020.37, Continuation of Essential DoD Contractor Services During Crises, November 6,
1990 or DoDI 3020.41, Contractor Personnel Authorized to Accompany the U.S. Armed Forces,
October 3, 2005
Exercise— A military maneuver or simulated wartime operation involving planning, preparation
and execution. It is carried out for the purpose of training and evaluation. It may be a
multinational, joint or single-Service exercise, depending on participating organizations.
(JP 1-02)
Force Protection— Actions taken to prevent or mitigate hostile actions against Department of
Defense personnel (to include family members), resources, facilities and critical information.
These actions conserve the force’s fighting potential so it can be applied at the decisive time and
place and incorporate the coordinated and synchronized offensive and defensive measures to
enable the effective employment of the joint force while degrading opportunities for the enemy.
Force protection does not include actions to defeat the enemy or protect against accidents,
weather or disease. Also called FP. (JP 1-02)
Host Nation— A nation which receives the forces and/or supplies of allied nations and/or
NATO organizations to be located on, to operate in, or to transit through its territory. (JP 1-02)
Individual Protective Equipment— In nuclear, biological, and chemical warfare, the personal
clothing and equipment required to protect an individual from biological and chemical hazards
and some nuclear effects. Also called IPE. (JP 1-02)
Installation— A grouping of facilities, located in the same vicinity, which support particular
functions. Installations may be elements of a base. (JP 1-02)
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance— Integrated capabilities to collect, process,
exploit and disseminate accurate and timely information that provides the battlespace awareness
necessary to successfully plan and conduct operations. (AFDD 2-5.2)
Interdiction— An action to divert, disrupt, delay or destroy the enemy’s surface military
potential before it can be used effectively against friendly forces. (JP 1-02) Operations to stop
the transit of WMD, delivery systems and associated technologies, materials and expertise
between States, and between State and non-State actors of proliferation concern in any
environment. (JP 3-40)
Joint Force— A general term applied to a force composed of significant elements, assigned or
attached, of two or more military departments, operating under a single joint force commander.
(JP 1-02)
Noncombatant Evacuation Operation— Operations directed by the Department of State, the
Department of Defense, or other appropriate authority whereby noncombatants are evacuated
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                          25


from foreign countries when their lives are endangered by war, civil unrest, or natural disaster to
safe havens or to the United States. Also called NEO. (JP 1-02)
Non—Emergency-Essential Civilians, Contractors and Dependents— A position-based
designation for those civilian employees who are not required to support the success of combat
operations or the availability of combat-essential systems in accordance with 10 USC § 1580;
contractor employees who do not perform essential contractor services; and dependents.
Nonproliferation— Those actions (e.g., diplomacy, arms control, multilateral agreements, threat
reduction assistance, and export controls) taken to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction by dissuading or impeding access to, or distribution of, sensitive technologies,
material, and expertise. Also called NP. See also counterproliferation. (JP 1-02)
Nuclear Weapon— A complete assembly (i.e., implosion type, gun type, or thermonuclear
type), in its intended ultimate configuration which, upon completion of the prescribed arming,
fusing, and firing sequence, is capable of producing the intended nuclear reaction and release of
energy. (JP 1-02)
Passive Defense— Measures taken to reduce the probability of and to minimize the effects of
damage caused by hostile action without the intention of taking the initiative. Also called PD.
(JP 1-02)
Permissive Environment— Operational environment in which host country military and law
enforcement agencies have control as well as the intent and capability to assist operations that a
unit intends to conduct. (JP 1-02)
Personal Protective Equipment— Personal protective equipment is equipment designed to
protect individuals exposed to hazards from injury or illness in nonmilitary unique occupational
environments where OSHA or applicable AFOSH standards apply, including emergency
response to CBRN incidents in the United States. Also called PPE. (AFDD 2-1.8)]
Policy— Guidance that is directive or instructive, stating what is to be accomplished. It reflects a
conscious choice to pursue certain avenues, and not others. Policies may change due to changes
in national leadership, political considerations, or for fiscal reasons. At the national level, policy
may be expressed in such broad vehicles such as the National Security Strategy. Within military
operations, policy may be expressed not only in terms of objectives, but also in rules of
engagement (ROE)—what we may or may not strike, or under what circumstances we may strike
particular targets. (AFDD 1)
Proliferation Prevention— To deny efforts by those seeking to acquire or expand their
chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear capabilities by: providing inspection, monitoring,
verification, and enforcement support for nonproliferation treaties and arms control regimes;
supporting export control activities; assisting in the identification of those attempting to acquire
or expand these capabilities; and, if so directed by the proper authorities, planning and
conducting denial operations. Also called PP. (AFDD 2-1.8)
Radiological Dispersal Device— (DOD) A device, other than a nuclear explosion device,
designed to disseminate radioactive material in order to cause destruction, damage or injury.
Also called RDD. (JP 1-02)
26                                                               AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


Reachback— The process of obtaining products, services, and applications or forces,
equipment, or materiel from Air Force organizations that are not forward deployed. (AFDD 2-
1.8)
Senior Leader—Encompasses both Senior Level and SES personnel as defined by the Office of
Personnel Management.
Targeting— The process of selecting and prioritizing targets and matching the appropriate
response to them, taking account of operational requirements and capabilities. (JP 1-02). [The
part of the tasking process for selecting and prioritizing targets and matching appropriate actions
to those targets to create specific desired effects that achieve objectives, taking account of
operational requirements and capabilities.] {Words in brackets apply only to the Air Force and
are offered for clarity.}
Toxic Industrial Chemicals— Any chemicals manufactured, used, transported or stored by
industrial, medical, or commercial processes. For example: pesticides, petrochemicals, fertilizers,
corrosives, poisons, etc. TICs produce toxic impacts to personnel, materials and infrastructure.
Also called TIC. (AFDD 2-1.8)
Toxic Industrial Materials— All toxic materials manufactured, stored, transported or used in
industrial or commercial processes. It includes toxic industrial chemicals, toxic industrial
radiologicals and toxic industrial biologicals. TIMs produce toxic impacts to personnel, materials
and infrastructure. Also called TIM. (AFDD 2-1.8)
Training— Instruction and study focused on a structured skill set to acquire consistent
performance. Training has predictable outcomes and when outcomes do not meet expectations,
further training is required. (AFDD 1-1)
Weapons of Mass Destruction— Weapons that are capable of a high order of destruction and/or
of being used in a manner so as to destroy large numbers of people. Weapons of mass
destruction can be nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological weapons, but exclude means of
delivery of weapons where such means is a separable and divisible part of the weapon. Also
called WMD. (National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction).
        AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                                                                                                                                     27


                                                                            Attachment 2
               C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCIES, ASSOCIATED EDUCATION LEVELS OF
                                      LEARNING,
                   TRAINING PROFICIENCY CODES AND PILLAR RELEVANCE


         Education Requirements                                                    Training Requirements
Education Proficiency                                     Task Performance Levels Task Knowledge Levels
1 = Knowledge/Comprehension                               1 = Extremely Limited     a = Nomenclature
2 = Application                                           2 = Partially Proficient  b = Procedures
3 = Analysis/Synthesis                                    3 = Competent              c = Operating Principles
                                                          4 = Highly Proficient      d = Advanced Theory

                                                          Subject Knowledge Levels
                                                          A = Facts               C = Analysis
                                                          B = Principles          D = Evaluation

CATEGORY        COMPETENCY                 Education Requirements                                                          Training Requirements                                                              C-CBRN
(Chapter 3)                                   Levels of Learning                                                             Proficiency Codes                                                              OPERATIONA
                                               (paragraph 1.5):                                                                (paragraph 1.5):                                                              L PILLAR
                                                                           Pre-Comm
                                                                                      O-1 – O-3
                                                                                                  O-4 – O-5




                                                                                                                                                                         O-1 – O-3
                                                                                                                                                                                     O-4 – O-5
                                       E-1 – E-3
                                       E-4 – E-5
                                                   E-6 – E-7
                                                               E-8 – E-9




                                                                                                                         E-1 – E-3
                                                                                                                                     E-4 – E-5
                                                                                                                                                 E-6 – E-7
                                                                                                                                                             E-8 – E-9
                                                                                                              O-6-Plus




                                                                                                                                                                                                 O-6-Plus




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CF
                                                                                                                                                                                                            PP
3.1. C-CBRN     3.1.1. Define and
Terminology     distinguish C-
                CBRN terms as
                they apply to the
                                        1 1          1           1         1            1           1         1                                                                                             X         X         X
                five Air Force
                doctrinal pillars of
                C-CBRN
                Operations
                3.1.2. Distinguish
                between detect-
                                        2 2          2           2         1            2           2         2                                                                                                            X
                to-warn and
                detect-to-treat
                3.1.3. Understand
                the difference
                between
                surveillance and
                                                                                                    1         1                                                                                                  X
                reconnaissance as
                they relate to C-
                CBRN operations
                and activities
3.2. C-CBRN     3.2.1. Understand
Doctrine,       Joint and Air
Policy and      Force
                                                                                                    1         1                                                                                             X         X X X
Guidance        C-CBRN
                doctrine, policy
                and guidance
28                                                           AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.2.2.
     Comprehend Joint
     and Air Force
     C-CBRN doctrine             1   1       1   1   2         A    A B   B       X
     and how it relates
     to the National
     Military Strategy
     3.2.3. Understand
     the unique
     relationship                                1   1                                   X X
     between PD and
     CM
     3.2.4. Understand
     the importance of
     the CEMP 10-2 in
                                                     1                                     X
     executing CM
     operations and
     activities
     3.2.5. Understand
     that CM
     operations entail
                                     1           1   1     A A B    A B   B                X
     short-, mid-, and
     long-term phases
     and goals
     3.2.6. Recognize
     the
     existence/applicab
     ility of internal
     Air Force and
     external                                        1     A A B    A B   B                X
     organizations' CM
     plans (e.g.,
     installation,
     MAJCOM,
     federal, state)
     3.2.7. Understand
     C-CBRN                                      1   1                        X
     interdiction policy
     3.2.8. Know
     treaties governing
                           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A    A A A     X
     CBRN possession
     and use
     3.2.9. Understand
     U.S. Strategic
     Command's role
     as the lead
     combatant
                             1   1   1   1   1   1   1                            X
     command for
     integrating and
     synchronizing
     DoD CWMD
     efforts
         AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                             29


                 3.2.10.
                 Understand the
                 role of the PP and
                 CF missions in              1   1           1   1                         X
                 support of the
                 Proliferation
                 Security Initiative
                 3.2.11.
                 Understand why
                 the Air Force
                 "pre-positions" its
                                       1 1   2   2   1   2   2   2                                  X
                 expeditionary
                 airbases in CBRN
                 threat
                 environments
                 3.2.12.
                 Understand the
                 relevance of the
                 Health Powers                                   1                                  X
                 Act to C-CBRN
                 operations and
                 activities
                 3.2.13.
                 Understand the
                 Air Force Incident
                 Management
                 System (AFIMS)
                 and how it
                 correlates to the
                                                             1   1     A A B     A A B                  X
                 National
                 Response
                 Framework
                 (NRF) and
                 National Incident
                 Management
                 System (NIMS)
3.3. Adversary   3.3.1. Understand
CBRN             the potential for
Intelligence     enemy denial and                        1   1   1   A A B   B   A B   B   X
                 deception to mask
                 CBRN activities
                 3.3.2. Recognize
                 trends and
                 patterns to
                 identify                                            A A B   B   A B   B   X
                 indications of
                 CBRN
                 mobilization
                 3.3.3. Anticipate
                 potential
                                                         1   2   2           A   A B   B   X
                 adversary courses
                 of action
30                                   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.3.4. Determine
     enemy CBRN
     capability and its    2   2                           X
     effect on US CF
     capabilities
     3.3.5. Determine
     an adversary's
     (state and non-
     state) CBRN
     capabilities,         1   1   A A B     B   B   B   X X
     intentions,
     vulnerabilities
     and delivery
     means
     3.3.6. Predict the
     CBRN hazard to
     friendly forces       1   1     A A     A B     B     X
     near permanent
     bases
     3.3.7. Understand
     enemy
     intelligence,
     logistical and
     operational
                           1   1   A B   A   A B     B     X X X
     tactics, techniques
     and procedures
     (TTPs) to
     improve C-CBRN
     AD and PD
     3.3.8. Understand
     the full range of
     potential space,
     airborne, and
     surface threats to        1     A A     A B     B         X X
     US interests as
     they relate to C-
     CBRN AD and
     PD
     3.3.9. Develop
     and review
     statements of
     intelligence                                A B       X
     interest as they
     relate to the
     C-CBRN mission
        AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                     31


                 3.3.10.
                 Understand that
                 potential enemy
                 courses of action
                 in developing
                 and/or employing                       1   1     A A     A B     X
                 CBRN weapons
                 may be predicted
                 by modeling and
                 simulation
                 methods and tools
                 3.3.11.
                 Understand and
                 assess adversary
                 CBRN science
                 and technology
                 acquisition and
                 development
                 process (i.e.,
                 intent,                                1   1                 A   X
                 knowledge,
                 technical
                 infrastructure,
                 agent/material,
                 weapon
                 production,
                 stockpile,
                 deployment)
                 3.3.12.
                 Recognize
                 adversaries'
                 potential ability to
                 degrade C-CBRN
                                            1   1   1   1   1   A A A   A B   A   X X X
                 AD and PD
                 activities through
                 denial, deception,
                 or unconventional
                 attack
                 3.3.13.
                 Synthesize sensor
                 information to
                                        1   1   2   1   2   2     A A   A B   B       X
                 determine
                 whether a given
                 object is a threat
3.4. C-CBRN      3.4.1. Understand
Intelligence,    what role space,
Surveillance     airborne and
and              surface assets
Reconnaissance   play in detecting
                                        1   1   1   1   1   1           A A A         X
                 the CBRN threat
                 and how that
                 information is
                 passed to the
                 warfighter
32                                                          AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.4.2. Understand
     unique and
     acquired target
                                                1   1       A A     A A A         X
     signatures and
     appropriate
     collection means
     3.4.3. Be able to
     understand
     finished
                                                1   1               A B   B       X
     intelligence
     unique to CBRN
     targets
     3.4.4. Understand
     the need for
     greater
     information
                          1 1   1   1       1   1   1   A A B   B   A B   B       X
     reporting and
     sharing to
     improve CBRN
     tracking
     3.4.5. Understand
     the importance of
     multiple
     information
     sources and
     methods to obtain              1       1   1   1   A A B   B   A B   B       X
     a high level of
     fidelity and
     granularity for C-
     CBRN
     identification
     3.4.6. Understand
     the capabilities
     and limitations of
     existing sensors
     and weapons to
     detect, divert or          1   1       1   2   2                                 X
     destroy/defeat
     CBRN or CBRN-
     capable threats
     and delivery
     means
     3.4.7. Understand
     how to shape the
     battlespace in       1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                                     X
     CBRN
     environment
     3.4.8. Understand
     lines of
     communication
     and the potential
                                1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A     A A A     X
     for the movement
     of CBRN
     technology and
     materiel
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                           33


     3.4.9. Understand
     the ways
                          1   1   2   1   1   2   3   A A A A     A A A     X
     proliferation can
     be detected
     3.4.10.
     Understand the
     high-fidelity and
     granularity                                        A B   B   A B   B       X
     requirements for
     CBRN
     identification
     3.4.11. Interpret
     intelligence
                                                        A B   B   A B   B       X
     products unique
     to CBRN targets
     3.4.12. Identify
     and reassess the
     collection
     requirements
                                                        A A A     A B   B       X X
     management
     process as it
     relates to C-
     CBRN operations
     3.4.13.
     Understand
     assets, processes,
     capabilities,
     limitations and
     complexities of
     the intelligence
     community and
                          1   1   2       1   1   2     A A A     A A A         X
     ISR, and the
     complexity of
     collecting within
     the US and its
     territories in
     support of C-
     CBRN operations
     and activities
     3.4.14.
     Understand how
     to correlate
     multiple
     information
                                                          A B       A B         X
     sources and
     methods to obtain
     a high level of
     fidelity and
     granularity
34                                                 AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.4.15.
     Understand the
     challenge of using
     all-source
     intelligence to
                                       1   1       B   B     A B       X
     identify and track
     unconventional
     delivery means
     with a high level
     of confidence
     3.4.16.
     Understand the
     limitations of            1       2   2       A B     A A B       X
     achieving
     persistent ISR
     3.4.17.
     Understand the
     role of active            1       1   1   A A A       A B   B     X
     intelligence
     gathering
     3.4.18.
     Understand the
     value and process
     of analysis,
     correlation and                               A A           A     X
     data fusion, and
     US agencies
     involved in data
     collection
     3.4.19.
     Recognize the
     contributions of
                                       1   1   A A A A     A A A           X
     non-traditional
     ISR to the C-
     CBRN mission
     3.4.20. Employ
     space and
     airborne
     sensors/radar             1       1   1                 A A           X
     systems to detect
     threats en route to
     US interests
     3.4.21. Correlate
     ISR inputs to
                                                                           X
     engage a CBRN
     threat
     3.4.22.
     Understand the
     capabilities and
     limitations of the
     intelligence          1   1   1   1   1       A A     A B   B         X
     community in
     support of C-
     CBRN operations
     and activities
       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                             35


3.5. C-CBRN   3.5.1. Recognize
Planning      operational
              planning
              considerations for         1   1       1   1   1                       X
              the transport of
              contaminated/cont
              agious material
              3.5.2. Understand
              CBRN CF
              planning
              throughout the
              operational                    2       1   2   2     A A A   A B   B       X
              plan/operational
              order
              (OPLAN/OPORD
              ) process
              3.5.3. Understand
              clearance access
                                                                   A A A   A B   B       X
              requirements for
              CF missions
              3.5.4. Determine
              potential
              operational
              requirements for
              recovery or                            1   2   2                           X
              humanitarian
              response
              following a CF
              operation
              3.5.5. Understand
              homeland defense
              preparations as      1 1   1   2   1   1   2   3     A A A   A A A                  X
              they relate to C-
              CBRN
              3.5.6. Identify
              resources and
              procedures to
                                         1   2       1   2   3                                        X
              prepare for C-
              CBRN operations
              and activities
              3.5.7. Understand
              planning
              considerations for
                                   1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A   A A A                  X
              securing CBRN
              contaminated
              areas
              3.5.8.
              Demonstrate
              knowledge of
              operational plans                                                                   X
              designed for a
              CBRN
              environment
36                                                          AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.5.9. Understand
     that the Air Force
     will operate based
     upon mission         1 1   2   2   1   2   2   2                                   X
     requirement in a
     CBRN
     environment
     3.5.10.
     Understand the
     impact,
     importance and
     challenges of
     mortuary
     operations during
                                                    1       A A    A A A                    X
     the recovery,
     disposition,
     repatriation and
     interment of
     remains as part of
     CBRN CM
     operations
     3.5.11. Know the
     challenges of
     transporting
     contaminated/cont
     agious personnel,
                                                1   1   A A A A    A A A                    X
     including
     casualties and
     remains, and
     materiel,
     including samples
     3.5.12.
     Participate in
     theater
     engagement
                                                                             X
     planning to
     enhance C-CBRN
     operations and
     activities
     3.5.13. Plan air
     interdiction
     operations of in-
                                            1   3   3                        X
     transit CBRN
     weapons and
     materials
     3.5.14.
     Understand the
     legal
                                1   1       1   1   1                        X
     requirements for
     defendable public
     attribution
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                   37


     3.5.15.
     Understand and
     demonstrate the
                                1                   X
     use of information
     operations (IO) as
     a CBRN deterrent
     3.5.16.
     Understand
     methodical
     approaches to                  A A   A B   B       X
     mission planning
     and target
     development
     3.5.17. Develop
     and update
     standard CBRN
     CF planning
     templates which                A B   A B   B       X
     will be integrated
     throughout the
     OPLAN/OPORD
     process
     3.5.18.
     Demonstrate early
     operator
     involvement in
                                                        X
     the mission
     planning process,
     to include target
     intelligence
     3.5.19.
     Understand
     constraints
     affecting the
     allocation process
     of air and space       1   1                           X
     capabilities
     needed to detect
     CBRN threats
     during C-CBRN
     AD operations
     3.5.20.
     Understand the
     importance of
     integration of C-
                            1   1                           X
     CBRN mission
     considerations in
     theater war
     planning
38                                                          AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.5.21.
     Recognize the
     importance of
     including C-
                            1   1   1       1   2   2       A A        A A        X
     CBRN AD in the
     development of
     the air and space
     tasking orders
     3.5.22.
     Understand the
     relationship
     between                    1   1       1   1   1                             X
     antiterrorism
     plans and those
     for C-CBRN AD
     3.5.23.
     Determine C-
     CBRN diversion                                                               X
     options based on
     relevant variables
     3.5.24.
     Determine C-
     CBRN support
                          1 2   2   3   1   2   3   3       A A    A                    X
     material
     requirements and
     resupply
     3.5.25.
     Understand
     planning
     considerations for
     non-combatant          1   2   2       1   2   3   A A A A    A A A                X
     evacuation
     operations (NEO)
     in a CBRN threat
     environment
     3.5.26.
     Understand
     planning
     considerations for             1           1   1         A    A A A                X
     the development
     of a medical surge
     plan
     3.5.27. Identify
     approval process
     required to
     operate mobility
                                                1   2                  A B              X
     aircraft to/from
     CBRN-
     contaminated
     airfields
       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                     39


              3.5.28.
              Understand
              operational
              considerations for
              air mobility
                                             1           1   2                            X
              support to special
              operations forces
              (SOF) in a CBRN
              threat
              environment
              3.5.29. Plan for
              the protection of
                                         1   2           2   3   A A     A A              X
              non-Air Force
              personnel
              3.5.30.
              Recognize the
              requirement to
              designate
              alternate aerial
              ports of
              embarkation/deba
              rkation
              (APOE/APOD) to                 1       1   2   3                            X
              facilitate
              contamination
              avoidance during
              aerial
              deployment,
              redeployment,
              and sustainment
              operations
              3.5.31.
              Understand
              requirements in      1 1   2   2   1   1   2   2   A A   A A A              X
              support of the C-
              CBRN CONOPS
              3.5.32.
              Understand and
                                   1 1   2   2   1   1   3   3           A A              X
              conduct crisis
              planning
              3.5.33.
              Understand and
                                   1 1   2   2   1   1   3   3           A A              X
              conduct deliberate
              planning
3.6. C-CBRN   3.6.1. Understand
Reachback     the limitations in
              technology and
              expertise for                          1   1   1   A A   A B   B   X
              CBRN
              assessments
              3.6.2. Employ
              intelligence                   1           1   2   A B   A B   B   X
              reachback
40                                         AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.6.3. Understand
     civil and military
     reachback and
     support
     capabilities,
     CONUS and
                                   1   1   A B    B   B   B       X           X
     OCONUS,
     including those
     belonging to
     Allies, Coalition
     and host nation
     (HN)
     3.6.4. Know
     emerging CBRN
                           1       1   1                      X       X
     detection
     technologies
     3.6.5. Understand
     available sources
     of, and methods       1   1   1   1                          X
     for engaging
     SMEs
     3.6.6. Use all
     available C-
     CBRN SMEs to
     assess operational                      A    A A B           X
     risk decision tools
     against mission
     criticality
     3.6.7. Understand
     the products
     provided by
     reachback support                            A A B           X
     and how they are
     used to inform
     senior leadership
     3.6.8. Utilize
     lessons learned
     following all
     C-CBRN                                                           X
     operations to
     improve future
     missions
     3.6.9.
     Demonstrate
     support and                                                      X
     augmentation of
     C-CBRN SMEs
     3.6.10. Analyze
     and interpret
     computer
                                                                          X
     predictor models
     and apply them to
     realistic scenarios
       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                      41


              3.6.11.
              Understand the
              installation plan
              for the mass care
              of displaced                  1           1   A A A A   A A A                X
              personnel, to
              include food,
              shelter and
              hygiene
              3.6.12.
              Understand the
              potential to
              support incoming
                                                    1   1       A B   A B   B              X
              response forces
              during CBRN CM
              operations and
              activities
3.7. C-CBRN   3.7.1. Understand
Preparation   how standing
              rules of
              engagement
              (ROE) are
              applicable versus                     1   2   A A A A   A B   B     X
              rules for the use
              of force (RUF)
              and how to apply
              each to CBRN
              situations
              3.7.2. Understand
              the potential
              international,
              national, and
                                                    1   1                   A   X X
              diplomatic
              implications
              stemming from C-
              CBRN operations
              3.7.3. Understand
              the potential
              impact of
                                                    1   1     A A B   A B   B     X
              C-CBRN
              operations on the
              mission
              3.7.4. Understand
              the implications
              of conducting
                                  1 1   1   1   1   1   1       A B   A B   B     X
              missions in a
              CBRN
              environment
42                                                            AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.7.5. Understand
     the "exchange
     zone" concept,
     which enables the
     transload of cargo
     and passengers
     from clean to          1 1   2   2       1   2   2                                   X
     contaminated
     airlift aircraft for
     continuation of
     aerial resupply of
     contaminated
     airfields
     3.7.6. Understand
     the effects of
     contaminated                                 1   1   A A A A    A A A                    X
     aircraft on air
     operations
     3.7.7. Understand
     the importance of
     CBRN arms              1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                        X
     control treaties
     and agreements
     3.7.8. Understand
     the potential
     effects of weather     1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                            X
     during CBRN
     operations
     3.7.9. Understand
     legal limitations
     and restrictions
     affecting C-
     CBRN operations
     and activities,
     including posse
                                                  1   1                            X X        X
     comitatus, ROE,
     RUF,
     Enforcement of
     Laws to Restore
     Public Order Act,
     and intelligence
     collection
     3.7.10.
     Understand how
     priority mission
     resources and
     population/industr                           1   1                            X X
     ial centers affect
     CF and AD
     operations and
     activities
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                        43


     3.7.11.
     Understand
     diplomatic
     considerations
     and constraints
     regarding the air
     shipment of
                                 1   2           2   3                                X
     contaminated
     cargo and
     contaminated/cont
     agious
     passengers,
     patients, and
     remains
     3.7.12.
     Understand
     considerations
     and constraints
     for airlift, aerial
                                 1   1       1   2   3                                X
     refueling, and
     base opening
     operations in a
     CBRN
     environment
     3.7.13.
     Understand how
     issues
     surrounding
     dependents,
                           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A     A B     B            X
     service animals,
     and pets may
     affect evacuation
     activities and
     operations
     3.7.14.
     Understand the
     impact of
                                 1   1           1   1   A A B   B   B   B   B            X
     environmental
     changes upon
     CBRN incidents
     3.7.15.
     Understand the
     importance of
                           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A     A A A                X
     developing
     personal/family
     CM plans
     3.7.16.
     Understand the
     impact of CBRN
     CM operations                               1   1     A B   B   A B     B            X
     upon current
     contractor-
     provided services
       44                                                       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


3.8. C-CBRN   3.8.1. Understand
Command and   how the following
Control       elements form an
              operational
              framework that
              enables
              C-CBRN AD
              operational           1   1   2   1   1   2                               X
              capability: all
              layers of AD,
              sensors, shooters,
              and the
              battlespace
              management and
              infrastructure
              3.8.2. Identify
              and prioritize
              mission and
              service restoration                             A A B     A B     B               X
              actions consistent
              with mission and
              resources
              3.8.3. Understand
              command and
              control (C2) in all
              types of CBRN
                                                    1   1   A A B   B   B   B   B               X
              CM operations
              (i.e., Joint,
              foreign, local,
              state and federal)
              3.8.4. Understand
              and integrate the
              contributions of
              cross-functional
              KSAs in a
                                            1       2   2     A A B     A B     B   X
              collaborative
              network as they
              support the
              C-CBRN CF
              mission
              3.8.5. Understand
              the levels of C2 as
              they relate to
              reporting up and      1   1   1   1   1   2   A A B   B   A A A           X
              down the chain,
              relative to CBRN
              threats
              3.8.6.
              Demonstrate
              interactions with
              higher                    2   2       2   2                                   X
              headquarters and
              exhibit reachback
              capabilities
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                         45


     3.8.7.
     Demonstrate
     personnel
     accountability         1   2   2       1   2   3   A A B   B   A B   B            X
     measures
     following a
     CBRN attack
     3.8.8. Provide a
     common
     operational
                          1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1           A     A B              X
     picture of the
     hazard
     environment
     3.8.9. Understand
     C2 actions based
     upon individual      2 2   2   2   1   2   2   2                                  X
     versus area
     detection
     3.8.10.
     Efficiently filter
     and process                                            B   B   A B   B   X
     appropriate
     information
     3.8.11.
     Understand the
     importance of
     space operations       1   1   1       1   1   2       A A     A B   B   X
     in support of C-
     CBRN operations
     and activities
     3.8.12.
     Demonstrate the
     ability to plan,
     command, control
     and execute                                                                  X
     C-CBRN
     operations, and
     assess the impact
     to base operations
     3.8.13.
     Understand and
     demonstrate
     deconfliction with
     friendly forces                            1   1       A B     A B   B   X X
     before executing
     C-CBRN CF and
     AD activities and
     operations
46                                                   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.8.14.
     Recognize that
     decisions made
     during the C-
     CBRN AD and/or              1   1   1   2   2   A A    A B   B      X X X X
     CF phase may
     affect/be of
     significance to PD
     and CM
     3.8.15.
     Understand the
     contributions of
     common
                                     1       1   1   A B    A B   A      X X
     operating systems
     to
     C-CBRN AD and
     CF
     3.8.16.
     Understand the
     value of
     designated and
                                 1   1   1   1   1   A A    A A A          X
     potential
     diversion sites for
     inbound CBRN
     weapons systems
     3.8.17.
     Understand and
     demonstrate air
                                             1   1                               X
     operations center
     (AOC) planning
     for CBRN events
     3.8.18. Apply
     ORM/decision
     tools to
                                                                                 X X
     C-CBRN
     operations and
     activities
     3.8.19.
     Understand
     mission
     assurance/continu
     ation planning
     considerations
     and relationship
                           1 1   2   3   1   2   3     A       A B               X
     to command,
     control,
     communications,
     computers and
     intelligence on
     Air Force
     installations
       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                             47


                3.8.20. Provide
                forces for
                deterrence against         1   2       1   2   3       A B       A B              X
                specific CBRN
                threats
3.9. C-CBRN     3.9.1.
Communication   Demonstrate the
                efficient transfer
                of detection
                information
                between
                                                                               A B   B       X
                command and
                warfighter,
                increasing
                probability of
                successful
                countermeasures
                3.9.2. Understand
                and communicate
                applicable             1   2   2       1   2   2       A B       A B              X
                installation
                response plans
                3.9.3. Understand
                health risk          1 1   1   2   1   1   2   2                                  X
                communication
                3.9.4. Understand
                the impact of
                public perception
                on military C-
                CBRN operations,                           1   1   A A A A     A B   B                X
                and the impact of
                military activity
                on public
                perception
                3.9.5. Recognize
                and understand
                appropriate
                sources of
                                     1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A B   B   A B                    X
                credible
                information
                following a
                CBRN attack
                3.9.6. Ensure
                active
                communication
                with the
                combined air
                                                                       A A     A B   B   X
                operations center
                (CAOC) and
                other C2 elements
                during
                engagement
       48                                                          AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


               3.9.7. Understand
               the process for
               warning airborne
                                                   1   1   1                                   X
               aircraft of CBRN
               attacks against
               airfields
               3.9.8. Understand
               the principles of
               public affairs                          1   1   A A A A     A B   B                 X
               operations in a
               CM environment
3.10. C-CBRN   3.10.1.
Strike         Demonstrate the
Operations     ability to identify
               CBRN targets,         1 1   2   2   1   2   2                 A B       X
               regardless of area
               of responsibility
               (AOR)
               3.10.2.
               Understand the
               ramifications of
               hitting CBRN
               targets, desired                    1
               and collateral                          2   2     A B   B   A B   B   X X
               effects, to include
               potential for
               unintentional
               escalation of
               hostilities
               3.10.3.
               Understand that
               some CBRN
                                               1   1   1   1       A B     A B   B     X
               targets require
               time sensitive
               targeting
               3.10.4.
               Understand
               unique elements
               of engaging
               CBRN targets
                                                                           A B   B     X
               (e.g., specific aim
               points, precision
               engagement,
               restrictions to
               engagement)
               3.10.5.
               Understand the
               time-sensitive
               nature to detect,       1   1   2   1   2   2               A B   A         X
               divert and/or
               destroy CBRN
               AD targets
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                     49


     3.10.6.
     Determine the
     appropriate
     assessment
     methodology to             1             A B   B     X
     confirm
     completion of
     operational
     objectives
     3.10.7.
     Understand the
     availability and
     capabilities of
                            1   2   2           A B       X X
     specialized C-
     CBRN weapons
     and their
     employment
     3.10.8.
     Understand the C-
     CBRN-unique
                                1   1                   X X
     aspects of the Air
     Force dynamic
     targeting process
     3.10.9.
     Demonstrate the
     ability to conduct
                                              A B         X
     immediate post-
     strike BDA of the
     target
     3.10.10.
     Demonstrate the
     application of the
                                                          X
     Air Force
     targeting process
     to CBRN targets
     3.10.11. Ensure
     that objectives are
                                1   1                     X
     measurable and
     achievable
     3.10.12.
     Minimize risk to
     friendly forces
     and assets when
                                        A A   A B   B     X
     striking a CBRN
     target, including
     SOF and ground
     forces
     3.10.13. Properly
     characterize the
                                                A B       X
     target and its
     surroundings
50                                            AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.10.14.
     Recognize that
     assessment of
     particular
     operational
     effects may                1   1   1                         X
     require long
     observation
     periods in order to
     determine degree
     of success
     3.10.15.
     Understand a high
     level of fidelity is           1   1                         X
     required for
     targeting CBRN
     3.10.16.
     Understand
     capabilities and
                            1       1   2                         X
     limitations of US
     CBRN CF
     weapons
     3.10.17.
     Understand
     engagement does            1   2   2            A B          X
     not always equal
     destruction
     3.10.18.
     Understand how
     to employ all                            A B       A B       X X
     weapons against
     CBRN targets
     3.10.19.
     Understand
                            1   1   1   1                         X
     mobile target
     attributes
     3.10.20.
     Understand that
     some CBRN
                            1   1   1   1   A A B    A B   B      X
     targets will be
     hard and deeply
     buried
     3.10.21.
     Understand the
     importance of          1       1   1     A B    A B   B      X
     high value targets
     in CF operations
     3.10.22.
     Understand the
     importance of the          1   1   2                         X
     target in order to
     prioritize tracking
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                           51


     3.10.23. Utilize
     knowledge of
     adversary's
     CBRN capability
                                1   1   1   A A B     A B   B   X
     to deny, disrupt,
     dissuade, and/or
     destroy that
     capability
     3.10.24.
     Understand the
     no-strike list,
     restricted strike                                A A B     X
     list, and
     restrictions on
     weapons
     3.10.25.
     Understand and
     consider CBRN
                                                                X X
     effects in C-
     CBRN AD and
     CF planning
     3.10.26. Consider
     potential
     environmental
     variables (e.g.,
     wind,
     temperature,           1   1   1   1   A A A       A A     X X
     humidity,
     precipitation, time
     of day) as they
     relate to target
     engagement
     3.10.27.
     Understand that
     within the CBRN
     target set, proof of           1   1   A B   B   A B   B   X
     existence may be
     of high political
     value
     3.10.28. Consider
     retargeting based                                A B   B   X
     on BDA
     3.10.29. Analyze
     effectiveness of
     CF operations
     against CBRN
     targets using
                                                      A A A     X
     experimentation
     via wargaming,
     modeling and
     simulations, and
     exercises
52                                                  AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.10.30.
     Demonstrate the
     application of
     standing ROE to
     CBRN targets as                                                    X
     appropriate, and
     understand C-
     CBRN-unique
     ROE
     3.10.31. Assess
     effectiveness of
     interdiction
                                           1   1   A A A   A B   B      X
     operations against
     high value
     personnel
     3.10.32. Conduct
                                                                        X
     nodal analysis
     3.10.33.
     Distinguish
     between CBRN          1   1   1   1   2   2                        X
     and conventional
     target sets
     3.10.34.
     Efficiently track
     movement of
     CBRN weapons                                                A      X
     in order to
     maximize strike
     opportunities
     3.10.35.
     Understand and
     apply the benefits
                                   1   1   2   2              A B       X
     of aggressive IO
     to the CBRN CF
     mission
     3.10.36.
     Understand
     different types of
     assessment, to
                                       1   1   1              A B       X
     include BDA,
     weapons
     effectiveness,
     mission analysis
     3.10.37.
     Understand the
     full range of
     attack options and
     the optimized
     combination of                    1   2   2              A A       X
     weapons and
     platforms to
     produce various
     options for
     effects-based kills
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                53


     3.10.38.
     Understand how
     to plan for post-     1   1   1       1     A B   B   A B   B   X
     strike hazard
     mitigation
     3.10.39.
     Understand
     obstacles to target           1   1   1     A A B     A A B     X
     identification and
     data collection
     3.10.40.
     Understand the
     differences
                                               A A B   B   A B   B   X
     between pre-,
     trans-, and post-
     strike IO
     3.10.41.
     Understand the
     importance of
     hazard
                                       1   1       A B     A A B     X
     characterization
     and analysis in
     the targeting
     process
     3.10.42.
     Understand the
     process by which
     critical
     information                                   A B       A B     X
     related to a target
     is passed
     throughout
     tracking
     3.10.43.
     Understand the
     process of
     matching
     available weapons
     and their effects
     against CBRN                                          A B       X
     target
     vulnerabilities in
     order to achieve a
     specific level of
     disruption, denial,
     or damage
     3.10.44.
     Understand the
     risk assessment
                                       2   2       A A     A B   B   X
     and management
     process for CBRN
     targets
       54                                                         AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


               3.10.45.
               Understand the
               SOF role as it
               relates to the
               special                                  1   1     A B       A B       X
               reconnaissance
               and CF missions,
               and the Air Force
               targeting process
               3.10.46.
               Understand
               commander's
               intent as it relates
               to the CBRN CF         1 1   1   1   1   1   1     A A       A B       X
               mission and every
               element of the Air
               Force dynamic
               targeting process
               3.10.47.
               Understand how
               the pace of
                                                        1   1   A A B    A A B        X
               operations is
               affected by
               CBRN targets
               3.10.48.
               Demonstrate the
               ability to intercept                                                       X
               low-radar cross
               section platforms
               3.10.49.
               Understand the
               complexity of
               achieving a "high
               confidence" level
               on a CBRN target
               set due to its                           1   1            A B   B          X
               unique nature,
               time sensitivity,
               and limitations in
               number and
               capability of
               available sensors
3.11. C-CBRN   3.11.1.
Force          Demonstrate
Protection     appropriate FP
               capabilities
               against inbound
               CBRN threats,                                                              X
               including those
               employing
               unconventional
               delivery means
               and methods
       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                          55


               3.11.2.
               Understand the
               possible impact of                         1   1         A A     A A A     X
               FPCONs on C-
               CBRN operations
               3.11.3.
               Understand how
               AOR-specific
                                      1   1   1       1   2   2                           X
               ROE may affect
               AD operations
               and activities
               3.11.4. Execute
               expedient                                          A B   B   B   A B   B        X
               hardening
               3.11.5. Protect
               against secondary                                                               X
               attacks
               3.11.6.
               Understand FP
                                    1 1   2   2   1   2   2   2   A A A A       A B   B        X
               implications of
               the CBRN threat
               3.11.7.
               Understand the
               relationship
                                              1           1   1                           X
               between C-CBRN
               AD and integrated
               base defense
3.12. C-CBRN   3.12.1.
Force          Recognize
Protection     deviations from
Planning       normal conditions
                                    1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A B     B   A B   B   X
               as potential
               indicators of
               enemy CBRN
               intent
               3.12.2. Know,
               identify,
               understand and
                                    1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                                X
               respond to the
               local and national
               threat conditions
               3.12.3.
               Recognize
                                    2 2   3   3                                                X
               suspicious
               activity
56                                                             AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.12.4. Identify
     the potential
     security
     vulnerabilities
     created by various
     avenues of
     approach to an
                                                           A B     B   A B   B       X
     installation (e.g.,
     streams, ponds,
     pipes, water
     mains, ports of
     entry via air,
     space and
     surface/ground)
     3.12.5.
     Recognize the
     potential security
     vulnerabilities
                                 1   1       1   1   1   A A A A       A A A         X         X
     created by or
     related to support
     provided by non-
     DoD personnel
     3.12.6.
     Recognize
     sources of health
     risks in a CBRN
                           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A       A A A                   X
     environment (e.g.,
     animals,
     environmental
     effects)
     3.12.7.
     Understand that
     an installation's
     ability to conduct
     C-CBRN                          1                                               X
     operations may be
     limited or
     degraded by a
     range of factors
     3.12.8. Identify
     local industrial      1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1         A A       A A               X
     hazards
     3.12.9.
     Understand
     factors affecting
                           2 2   2   2   1   2   2   3   A B   B   B     A B               X
     preparation of the
     airbase for a
     CBRN attack
       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                             57


               3.12.10.
               Recognize the
               effect population
               density has upon
               all C-CBRN
                                             1               1                                        X
               operations and
               activities
               occurring on or
               near an Air Force
               installation
3.13. C-CBRN   3.13.1. Apply
Medical        combat lifesaving
Activities     skills in a CBRN-   2 2   2   2   1   2   2   2                                    X
               contaminated
               environment
               3.13.2.
               Demonstrate self
               aid and buddy                                         2   2   2       2   2
                                                                 B               B                    X
               care (SABC)                                           b   b   b       b   b
               basics for CBRN
               exposure
               3.13.3.
               Understand and
               demonstrate                                           2   2       2   2   2
                                                                 A           B                    X
               medical treatment                                     b   b       b   b   b
               of contaminated
               personnel
               3.13.4. Conduct
               contaminated                                          2   2       2   2
                                                                 A           B                    X
               casualty                                              b   b       b   b
               movement
               3.13.5. Protect
               individuals from
               CBRN effects                                                  A       A A          X
               through medical
               prophylaxis
               3.13.6.
               Understand the
               need to monitor
               local populations   1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                                    X
               for diseases of
               operational
               importance
3.14. C-CBRN   3.14.1.
Medical        Understand the
Planning       importance of       1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                                    X
               medical FP
               requirements
58                                                           AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.14.2.
     Understand the
     need for
     collection of key
     health risk data      1 1   1   1       1   1   1                                   X
     for those
     individuals
     involved in C-
     CBRN operations
     3.14.3.
     Understand
     medical pre-
     treatment and         1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A     A A A               X
     post-exposure
     screening and
     treatment
     3.14.4.
     Anticipate
     potential
     psychological
     factors during CM           1   1       1   1   1   A A B   B   A B   B                 X
     operations and
     activities (e.g.,
     stress, behavioral
     casualties)
     3.14.5.
     Understand the
     prioritization of
     prophylaxis and
     therapeutics                                1   1               A A B                   X
     distribution and
     the Strategic
     National
     Stockpile process
     3.14.6.
     Understand the
     use of medical        1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                                   X
     surveillance to
     detect CBRN use
     3.14.7.
     Understand the
     roles and
     responsibilities of             1           1   1     A A A     A B                     X
     the public health
     emergency officer
     (PHEO)
     3.14.8.
     Understand the
     potential long-
     term                  1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A     A B   B                 X
     physiological
     effects of CBRN
     exposure
        AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                59


                3.14.9.
                Understand the
                importance of
                recording CBRN
                                                                 1   A A A A         A A A                X
                exposure
                information in
                personnel medical
                records
3.15. C-CBRN    3.15.1. Protect
Equipment and   individuals,
Procedures      equipment and        2 2     2   2   1   2   2   2                                    X
                assets from
                CBRN effects
                3.15.2.
                Demonstrate
                wear, inspection
                and maintenance
                of individual                                            2   2   2   2   2   2
                                         2   2   2   1   2   2   2   B                                X
                protective                                               b   b   b   b   b   b
                                     2
                equipment/person
                al protective
                equipment
                (IPE/PPE)
                3.15.3. Know and
                                                                         2   2   2       2   2
                implement MOPP       1 1     1   1   1   1   1   1   B               B                X
                                                                         b   b   b       b   b
                operations
                3.15.4. Know
                IPE/PPE
                requirements and     2 2     2   2   1   2   2   3   A B     B   B   A B     B        X
                limitations for
                CBRN operations
                3.15.5. Plan for
                                                                         2   2   2
                and perform Split-   2 2     2   3   1   2   3   3   B               A B     B        X
                                                                         b   b   b
                MOPP operations
                3.15.6.
                Demonstrate use
                                                                         2   2   2       2   2
                of personal                          2               b               B                X
                                                                         b   b   b       b   b
                decontamination
                materials
                3.15.7. Pre-
                position
                                                                                                      X
                appropriate
                detection material
                3.15.8.
                Understand and
                employ                                                               2   2   2
                                                                     B   B   B   B                    X
                contamination                                                        b   b   b
                control techniques
                and procedures
                3.15.9.
                Understand
                principles of        1 1     1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A         A A A            X
                collective
                protection
       60                                                                 AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


               3.15.10.
               Understand
               facility hardening
                                    1 1   2   2   1   2   2   2   A A A A         A A A               X
               levels and the
               implications on
               MOPP levels
3.16. C-CBRN   3.16.1. Know Air
Warning        Force, Joint and
Systems        Coalition warning
                                    1 1   2   2   1   2   2   3   B   B   B   B   A B     B           X
               systems and
               reporting
               procedures
               3.16.2.
               Recognize Air
               Force
               standardized
                                    2 2   2   2   2   2   2   2   A B     B   B   A B     B           X
               attack warning
               signals for CBRN
               medium and high
               threat areas
               3.16.3. React to
               Air Force, Joint
               and Coalition
                                    1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A B     B   B   B   B   B           X
               alarm conditions
               and protective
               postures
3.17. C-CBRN   3.17.1. Organize,
Activities     train and equip
               forces to operate
                                      1   2   3   1   1   2   3                                       X
               in a CBRN-
               contaminated
               environment
               3.17.2.
               Demonstrate Air
               Force CBRN CM                                                                              X
               operations and
               activities
               3.17.3. Assess
               and react in a
               timely manner to     2 2   2   2   2   2   2   2                                       X
               actual and
               potential attacks
               3.17.4. Perform
               immediate and
                                                                                      2   2
               operational          2 2   2   2   1   2   2   2   A B     B   B   B                   X
                                                                                      b   b
               decontamination
               procedures
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                               61


     3.17.5.
     Demonstrate
     proper procedures
     for remediation
                                                                        2   2   2
     activities, to                                     A B     B   B                            X
                                                                        b   b   b
     include
     decontamination,
     collection and
     disposal actions
     3.17.6.
     Demonstrate the
     use of tools and
     techniques to
                                                            1   2       2   2   2
     determine                          2               B                                    X
                                                            a   b       b   b   b
     transition points
     in a CBRN-
     contaminated
     environment
     3.17.7. Execute
     work-rest cycles
                          2 2   3   3   1   2   3   3   A A B       B   A B     B            X
     and hydration
     standards
     3.17.8.
     Understand and
                          1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                                        X
     demonstrate
     hazard avoidance
     3.17.9. Perform
     pre-deployment                                     A A A A         A A A                X
     activities
     3.17.10.
     Understand the
     deterrence value
     of demonstrating     1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                               X X X X
     C-CBRN
     operational
     capability
     3.17.11.
     Understand and
     demonstrate the
     transfer of                                            2   2   2       2   2
                                                        A               A                        X
     equipment and                                          b   b   b       b   b
     personnel through
     contaminated
     environments
     3.17.12.
     Understand and
     demonstrate the
                                                            2   2   2   2   2   2
     use of                                             A                                        X
                                                            b   b   b   b   b   b
     contaminated
     assets to continue
     operations
     3.17.13.
     Demonstrate C-
                                        1               A A A A         A A A       X
     CBRN force
     capabilities
       62                                                             AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


               3.17.14.
               Demonstrate the
               ability to conduct
               air, ground and                                                              X
               sea C-CBRN
               interdiction
               operations
               3.17.15.
               Organize, align
               and employ
                                                                                                X
               resources against
               multiple CBRN
               threats
               3.17.16. Plan for
               NEO in a CBRN-
                                          1   2           2   3       A A       A A                 X
               contaminated
               environment
3.18. C-CBRN   3.18.1.
Operational    Understand the
Spectrum       concept of “All      1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A     A B   B   X
               Airmen are
               sensors”
               3.18.2.
               Understand the C-
               CBRN                 1 1   1   1   1   1   2   3       A A     A A B     X X X X X
               operational
               spectrum
               3.18.3.
               Understand how
               PP contributes to          1   1       1   1   1   A A A A     A A A     X
               C-CBRN
               operations
               3.18.4.
               Understand CF as
               part of the C-
                                              1           1   1                             X
               CBRN
               operational
               spectrum
               3.18.5.
               Understand the C-
               CBRN AD
                                    1 1   1   1       1   1   1   A A A A     A A A             X
               mission and
               individual roles
               therein
               3.18.6.
               Understand
               contributions of
               battlefield Airmen   1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A B   B   A B   B           X
               in execution of C-
               CBRN AD
               operations
       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                       63


               3.18.7.
               Comprehend the
               Air Force role and
               responsibilities in             1           1   1                   A A A       X
               C-CBRN
               interdiction
               operations
               3.18.8.
               Understand that
               CF operations and
               activities may          1   1   1       1   1   2                                   X
               occur throughout
               the spectrum of
               conflict
               3.18.9.
               Understand the
                                     1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A         A A A                    X X
               roles of
               specialized teams
3.19. C-CBRN   3.19.1.
Reporting      Recognize                                                               1   1
                                     2 2   2   2   2   2   2   2   A B     B   B   B           X
               reportable                                                              a   a
               scenarios
               3.19.2.
               Understand and                                                      2   2   2
                                     1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   B   B   B   B               X
               execute reporting                                                   b   b   b
               procedures
               3.19.3.
               Understand post-
               attack                                      1   1                                            X
               reconnaissance
               procedures
               3.19.4.
               Demonstrate
               proficiency in
               CBRN up-              1 1   2   2   1   2   2   2                                            X
               channel reporting
               procedures/requir
               ements
               3.19.5.
               Understand site
               selection
               principles
               regarding the         1 1   1   1   1   1   1   2           A B         A B                  X
               location of
               airbases in a
               CBRN threat
               environment
          64                                                      AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                   3.19.6.
                   Understand
                   responsibilities
                   for identifying,
                   marking and                                            2   2   2
                                                            A B   B   B                       X
                   reporting CBRN                                         b   b   b
                   materials, to
                   include
                   unexploded
                   ordnance
                   3.19.7.
                   Understand the
                   requirement for
                   evidence and
                   crime scene              1       1   1   A A B     B   A B     B       X       X
                   preservation
                   during C-CBRN
                   activities and
                   operations
3.20. C-CBRN       3.20.1.
Interoperability   Understand
                   national and
                   specifically Air     1   1   1   2   3   A A A A       A A B       X
                   Force
                   contributions to
                   PP
                   3.20.2.
                   Demonstrate
                   knowledge of
                   Joint, combined,
                   and Coalition        1   1   1   1   1                             X X X X
                   theater operations
                   in a CBRN-
                   contaminated
                   environment
                   3.20.3. Develop
                   and conduct C-
                   CBRN exercises
                   with Joint,                                                1
                                                                                      X   X X
                   combined,                                                  a
                   Coalition and
                   interagency
                   partners
                   3.20.4. Develop
                   interagency              2       2   2                             X
                   MOA/MOU
                   3.20.5. Establish
                   operations in a
                   Joint, combined,
                   Coalition and            1       1   2                             X
                   interagency C-
                   CBRN
                   community
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                              65


     3.20.6. Establish
     interagency
                                                     1                     A   X
     intelligence
     sharing
     3.20.7.
     Understand own
     role with Joint,
     combined,
                                                                               X
     Coalition and
     other partners in
     the C-CBRN
     community
     3.20.8. Consider
     potential US and
     Coalition
     consequences and
                                                 1   1     A A     B   B   B       X
     resultant
     mitigation efforts
     of a CF attack on
     CBRN targets
     3.20.9.
     Demonstrate
     viability of
                                                                                       X
     existing
     MOU/MOA in a
     C-CBRN context
     3.20.10.
     Understand the
     roles and
     responsibilities of
     local, state,                               1   1   A B   B   A B     B           X
     federal and HN
     agencies in
     relation to C-
     CBRN operations
     3.20.11. Identify
     inter-relationships
     with Joint, Allied
     and Coalition C-      1 1   2   2   1   1   2   3                                      X
     CBRN forces in
     shaping the
     battlespace
     3.20.12.
     Understand Air
     Force rules, roles
     and                             1           1   1                                          X
     responsibilities
     with respect to
     DSCA
66                                                           AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.20.13.
     Understand
     command
     authority and
     limitations
     governed by                     1       1   1   1   A A A A    A B   B                  X
     Titles 10, 32 and
     34 in using DoD
     resources in
     support of civil
     contingencies
     3.20.14.
     Understand the
     roles of
     MOU/MOA in
     formalizing and
                                                 1   1   A A A A    A B   B                  X
     implementing
     domestic and
     foreign CM
     support
     relationships
     3.20.15. Conduct
     intra- and inter-
     military, military-
     to-civilian, and                                                         X
     interagency C-
     CBRN operations
     and activities
     3.20.16. Know
     different Services'
     C-CBRN
     operations,
     capabilities,
     methods and
                                                 1   1                        X          X
     equipment, and
     their limitations,
     as well as the
     degree of
     interoperability
     with the Air Force
     3.20.17.
     Recognize the
     deterrent value of
     Joint, combined,
                                     1   1       1   1       A A    A A A     X
     and Coalition
     C-CBRN
     demonstrations
     and exercises
     3.20.18.
     Understand
     interagency
     cooperation           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                        X
     related to C-
     CBRN homeland
     defense
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                             67


     3.20.19.
     Understand the
     need for C-CBRN      1   1   1   1   1                   X
     support
     agreements
     3.20.20.
     Comprehend
     CBRN-specific
                                      1   1         A B   B       X
     concerns/coordina
     tion issues with
     other nations
     3.20.21. Know
     the scope/variety
     of US national
     reconnaissance           1       1   1                       X
     assets and
     agencies involved
     in data collection
     3.20.22.
     Understand that
     specialized
     ground forces                        1     A   A A B         X
     may be needed to
     perform sensitive
     site exploitation
     3.20.23.
     Recognize
     differences in C-
     CBRN policies,
                                      1   1   A A   A B   B           X
     terminology and
     education levels
     between US and
     other forces
     3.20.24.
     Understand the
     need to integrate
     the Air Force,
     Joint and
     Coalition
                                      1   1                           X X
     detection
     networks and
     warning and
     reporting
     procedures and
     capabilities
     3.20.25. Develop
     interservice,
     interagency, and
     international                                    A B                  X
     agreements for
     sharing CBRN
     threat information
         68                                                            AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                  3.20.26.
                  Establish
                  international
                  agreements for
                  the aeromedical
                  evacuation of
                  contaminated/cont
                  agious
                                                   1           1   1               A               X
                  patients/casualties
                  and the movement
                  of contaminated
                  or contagious
                  remains,
                  consistent with
                  HQ AMC and HQ
                  USTC guidance
                  3.20.27.
                  Understand non-
                  Air Force                                    1   1             A A               X
                  detection
                  capabilities
                  3.20.28.
                  Understand the
                  integration of
                  space, air, land       1 1   2   2   1   1   2   3                               X
                  and sea forces to
                  address a CBRN
                  threat
                  3.20.29.
                  Understand the
                  various
                  support/response       1 1   1   2   1   1   2   2             A A               X
                  options the Air
                  Force provides in
                  DSCA
3.21. CBRN        3.21.1. Know and
Characteristics   identify typical
                  CBRN agents and
                  elements, their
                  characteristics
                  and effects (i.e.,
                  persistency,
                  lethality, toxicity,
                                           1   1   1       1   1   1                    X X        X
                  symptoms,
                  signatures/identifi
                  cation of agent or
                  precursor) upon
                  humans and the
                  environment, to
                  include operating
                  locations
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                69


     3.21.2. Know the
     risks of operating
     in CBRN
                           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1                                        X
     environments at
     varying levels of
     contamination
     3.21.3.
     Understand the
     CBRN threat,
                           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1         A A       A A         X        X
     characteristics,
     delivery means
     and methods
     3.21.4.
     Understand the
     challenges
     inherent to
     identifying CBRN      1 1   1   1       1   1   1     A A A         A A             X
     (e.g., breadth of
     potential delivery
     devices, time
     sensitivity)
     3.21.5.
     Understand types
     of CBRN, CBRN-
     capable or              1   1   1       1   1   1     A A A       A A A             X
     TIC/TIM threats
     that could be
     encountered
     3.21.6.
     Recognize
                                                           1   2   2
     possible                    2   2   2       2   2                 A B   B                X
                                                           a   b   b
     improvised
     explosive devices
     3.21.7.
     Recognize
     behavioral and
     physical
                           1 1   1   1       1   1   1   A A B     B   A B   B           X X
     symptoms
     possibly
     associated with
     CBRN exposure
     3.21.8.
     Understand
     CBRN-unique
     collateral
     damage/effects          1   1   1       1   1   2                                   X
     considerations
     and their potential
     impact on courses
     of action
     3.21.9.
     Understand
     indicators of a       1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A       A A A     X            X
     covert CBRN
     attack
       70                                                               AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


             3.21.10.
             Understand
             second- and third-
             order                          1           1   1       A A A       A B     B               X
             consequences
             stemming from
             CBRN events
             3.21.11. Know
             CBRN production
                                                        1                               A   X
             technology and
             methods
             3.21.12.
             Understand how
             CM response is             1   1       1   1   1                                           X
             affected by event
             characteristics
3.22. CBRN   3.22.1.
Mitigation   Demonstrate the
             proper use of
                                                                2   2   2   2   2   2   2
             IPE/PPE while                                                                              X
                                                                b   b   b   b   b   b   b
             participating in
             C-CBRN
             operations
             3.22.2. Know
             CBRN mitigation
                                            1           1   1                                       X
             methods and their
             limitations
             3.22.3.
             Understand
             personnel                                          2   2   2   2   3   3   3
                                  2 2   2   2   1   2   2   2                                       X
             contamination                                      b   b   b   b   c   c   c
             control
             procedures
             3.22.4.
             Understand
             restriction of
                                  1 1   2   3   1   1   2   3                                       X
             movement
             procedures for a
             CBRN event
             3.22.5.
             Understand
             shelter in place     2 2   2   2   1   2   2   2   A A A A         A A A               X X
             principles and
             procedures
             3.22.6.
             Demonstrate the
             principles of
             personal,                                          A B     B   B   A B     B               X
             equipment and
             patient
             decontamination
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                71


     3.22.7.
     Understand the
     principles and
     effects of
     restriction of            1   1       1   1   1   A A A A       A A A                        X
     movement (social
     distancing,
     quarantine and
     isolation)
     3.22.8. Know
     CBRN detection
     capabilities,         1   2   2   1   2   2   2   A A A A       A A A       X            X
     methods, and
     limitations
     3.22.9.
     Understand the
     implications of
     asset                     1   1       1   1   1   A B   B   B   B   B   B       X
     contamination in
     the course of C-
     CBRN operations
     3.22.10. Know
     CBRN agent
                         1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A       A A A                    X
     prophylaxes and
     their limitations
     3.22.11. Model
     CBRN agent
     movement/persist
     ence to support
     health risk
     assessments,                                                                             X
     determine PPE
     requirements, and
     support
     operational
     decisions
     3.22.12.
     Understand
     decontamination
     levels (i.e.,
     immediate,          1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A       A A A                    X
     operational,
     thorough,
     clearance) and
     limits
     3.22.13.
     Understand the
     safe transport,
     handling and
     disposal of         1 2   2   2   1   2   2   2                                          X
     CBRN-
     contaminated
     materials and
     personnel
72                                                               AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


     3.22.14.
     Understand the
     Air Force cover
                           1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   A A A A         A A A               X
     policy for CBRN
     contamination
     avoidance
     3.22.15.
     Understand the
     value of asset        1 1   2   2   1   1   2   2                                       X
     dispersal and
     cover
     3.22.16.
     Understand the        1 1   2   2   1   1   2   2                                       X
     purpose of cordon
     3.22.17.
     Understand
     operational
                           1 1   2   2       1   2   3               A       B   B           X
     implications of
     detection/detector
     results
     3.22.18.
     Understand and
     participate in the    2 2   2   2   1   2   2   2   A A A A         A A A               X
     installation
     detection network
     3.22.19. Identify
     requirements,
     based upon
                                     1   1           2   A A A A         A A A               X
     CBRN agent, for
     collective
     protection
     3.22.20. Execute
     contaminated
                                                         2   2   2   2   2   2
     asset                 2 2   2   2   1   2   2   2                                       X
                                                         a   a   a   a   a   a
     recording/tracking
     procedures
     3.22.21. Apply
     proper procedures
     during the
     removal of
     contaminated                                        2   2   2   2   3   3   3
                                         2                                                   X
     barrier material to                                 b   b   b   b   b   b   b
     avoid cross-
     contamination of
     personnel or
     assets
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                          73


     3.22.22.
     Understand the
     limitations of
     decontamination
     capability on CM
                                               1   1   A A A A         A A A            X
     operations (e.g.,
     large frame
     aircraft
     decontamination
     capability)
     3.22.23.
     Understand the
     importance of
                         1 1   1   1   1   1   1   1   B   B   B   B   B   B   B        X
     monitoring and
     testing food and
     water supplies
     3.22.24.
     Demonstrate
     reporting and
     documentation                                     2   2   2   2   2   2   2
                                                                                        X
     requirements for                                  a   b   b   b   b   b   b
     previously
     contaminated
     assets
                                                                Attachment 3
                                             C-CBRN ETE EXERCISE COMPETENCIES

 CATEGORY
                                                                   EXERCISE COMPETENCY
  (Chapter 3)
3.2. C-CBRN        3.2.1. Understand Joint and Air Force C-CBRN doctrine, policy and guidance
Doctrine, Policy   3.2.7. Understand C-CBRN interdiction policy
and Guidance       3.2.10. Understand the role of the PP and CF missions in support of the Proliferation Security Initiative
                   3.2.11. Understand why the Air Force ―  pre-positions‖ its expeditionary airbases in CBRN threat environments
                   3.2.12. Understand the relevance of the Health Powers Act to C-CBRN operations and activities
3.3. Adversary     3.3.2. Recognize trends and patterns to identify indications of CBRN mobilization
CBRN               3.3.4. Determine enemy CBRN capability and its effect on US CF capabilities
Intelligence       3.3.5. Determine an adversary's (state and non-state) CBRN capabilities, intentions, vulnerabilities and delivery means
                   3.3.13. Synthesize sensor information to determine whether a given object is a threat
3.4. C-CBRN        3.4.2. Understand unique and acquired target signatures and appropriate collection means
Intelligence,      3.4.4. Understand the need for greater information reporting and sharing to improve CBRN tracking
Surveillance and   3.4.8. Understand lines of communication and the potential for the movement of CBRN technology and materiel
Reconnaissance     3.4.9. Understand the ways proliferation can be detected
                   3.4.10. Understand the high-fidelity and granularity requirements for CBRN identification
                   3.4.14. Understand how to correlate multiple information sources and methods to obtain a high level of fidelity and granularity
                   3.4.15. Understand the challenge of using all-source intelligence to identify and track unconventional delivery means with a
                             high level of confidence
                   3.4.18. Understand the value and process of analysis, correlation and data fusion, and US agencies involved in data collection
                   3.4.19. Recognize the contributions of non-traditional ISR to the C-CBRN mission
                   3.4.20. Employ space and airborne sensors/radar systems to detect threats en route to US interests
                   3.4.21. Correlate ISR inputs to engage a CBRN threat
3.5. C-CBRN        3.5.1. Recognize operational planning considerations for the transport of contaminated/contagious material
Planning           3.5.2. Understand CBRN CF planning throughout the operational plan/operational order (OPLAN/OPORD) process
                   3.5.4. Determine potential operational requirements for recovery or humanitarian response following a CF operation
                   3.5.5. Understand homeland defense preparations as they relate to C-CBRN
                   3.5.6. Identify resources and procedures to prepare for C-CBRN operations and activities
                   3.5.7. Understand planning considerations for securing CBRN contaminated areas
                   3.5.8. Demonstrate knowledge of operational plans designed for a CBRN environment
                   3.5.12. Participate in theater engagement planning to enhance C-CBRN operations and activities
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                      75


              3.5.13. Plan air interdiction operations of in-transit CBRN weapons and materials
              3.5.14. Understand the legal requirements for defendable public attribution
              3.5.17. Develop and update standard CBRN CF planning templates which will be integrated throughout the OPLAN/OPORD
                      process
              3.5.18. Demonstrate early operator involvement in the mission planning process, to include target intelligence
              3.5.19. Understand constraints affecting the allocation process of air and space capabilities needed to detect CBRN threats
                      during C-CBRN AD operations
              3.5.20. Understand the importance of integration of C-CBRN mission considerations in theater war planning
              3.5.21. Recognize the importance of including C-CBRN AD in the development of the air and space tasking orders
              3.5.23. Determine C-CBRN diversion options based on relevant variables
              3.5.24. Determine C-CBRN support material requirements and resupply
              3.5.25. Understand planning considerations for non-combatant evacuation operations (NEO) in a CBRN threat environment
              3.5.26. Understand planning considerations for the development of a medical surge plan
              3.5.27. Identify approval process required to operate mobility aircraft to/from CBRN-contaminated airfields
              3.5.28. Understand operational considerations for air mobility support to special operations forces (SOF) in a CBRN threat
                      environment
              3.5.29. Plan for the protection of non-Air Force personnel
              3.5.30. Recognize the requirement to designate alternate aerial ports of embarkation/debarkation (APOE/APOD) to facilitate
                      contamination avoidance during aerial deployment, redeployment, and sustainment operations
              3.5.31. Understand requirements in support of the C-CBRN CONOPS
              3.5.32. Understand and conduct crisis planning
              3.5.33. Understand and conduct deliberate planning
3.6. C-CBRN   3.6.2. Employ intelligence reachback
Reachback     3.6.5. Understand available sources of, and methods for engaging SMEs
              3.6.6. Use all available C-CBRN SMEs to assess operational risk decision tools against mission criticality
              3.6.7. Understand the products provided by reachback support and how they are used to inform senior leadership
              3.6.8. Utilize lessons learned following all C-CBRN operations to improve future missions
              3.6.9. Demonstrate support and augmentation of C-CBRN SMEs
              3.6.10. Analyze and interpret computer predictor models and apply them to realistic scenarios
3.7. C-CBRN   3.7.2. Understand the potential international, national, and diplomatic implications stemming from C-CBRN operations
Preparation   3.7.3. Understand the potential impact of C-CBRN operations on the mission
              3.7.4. Understand the implications of conducting missions in a CBRN environment
              3.7.5. Understand the "exchange zone" concept, which enables the transload of cargo and passengers from clean to
                      contaminated airlift aircraft for continuation of aerial resupply of contaminated airfields
              3.7.11. Understand diplomatic considerations and constraints regarding the air shipment of contaminated cargo and
76                                                                  AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                        contaminated/contagious passengers, patients, and remains
                3.7.12. Understand considerations and constraints for airlift, aerial refueling, and base opening operations in a CBRN
                        environment
3.8. C-CBRN     3.8.1. Understand how the following elements form an operational framework that enables C-CBRN AD operational
Command and             capability: all layers of AD, sensors, shooters, and the battlespace management and infrastructure
Control         3.8.2. Identify and prioritize mission and service restoration actions consistent with mission and resources
                3.8.4. Understand and integrate the contributions of cross-functional KSAs in a collaborative network as they support the C-
                        CBRN CF mission
                3.8.5. Understand the levels of C2 as they relate to reporting up and down the chain, relative to CBRN threats
                3.8.6. Demonstrate interactions with higher headquarters and exhibit reachback capabilities
                3.8.7. Demonstrate personnel accountability measures following a CBRN attack
                3.8.8. Provide a common operational picture of the hazard environment
                3.8.10. Efficiently filter and process appropriate information
                3.8.12. Demonstrate the ability to plan, command, control and execute C-CBRN operations, and assess the impact to base
                        operations
                3.8.13. Understand and demonstrate deconfliction with friendly forces before executing C-CBRN CF and AD activities and
                        operations
                3.8.15. Understand the contributions of common operating systems to C-CBRN AD and CF
                3.8.17. Understand and demonstrate air operations center (AOC) planning for CBRN events
                3.8.18. Apply ORM/decision tools to C-CBRN operations and activities
                3.8.19. Understand mission assurance/continuation planning considerations and relationship to command, control,
                        communications, computers and intelligence on Air Force installations
3.9. C-CBRN     3.9.1. Demonstrate the efficient transfer of detection information between command and warfighter, increasing probability of
Communication           successful Countermeasures
                3.9.2. Understand and communicate applicable installation response plans
                3.9.6. Ensure active communication with the combined air operations center (CAOC) and other C2 elements during
                        engagement
                3.9.7. Understand the process for warning airborne aircraft of CBRN attacks against airfields
3.10. C-CBRN 3.10.1. Demonstrate the ability to identify CBRN targets, regardless of area of responsibility (AOR)
Strike        3.10.2. Understand the ramifications of hitting CBRN targets, desired and collateral effects, to include potential for
Operations              unintentional escalation of hostilities
              3.10.3. Understand that some CBRN targets require time sensitive targeting
              3.10.4. Understand unique elements of engaging CBRN targets (e.g., specific aim points, precision engagement, restrictions to
                        engagement)
              3.10.5. Understand the time-sensitive nature to detect, divert and/or destroy CBRN AD targets
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                            77


                 3.10.8. Understand the C-CBRN-unique aspects of the Air Force dynamic targeting process
                 3.10.9. Demonstrate the ability to conduct immediate post-strike BDA of the target
                 3.10.10. Demonstrate the application of the Air Force targeting process to CBRN targets
                 3.10.12. Minimize risk to friendly forces and assets when striking a CBRN target, including SOF and ground forces
                 3.10.13. Properly characterize the target and its surroundings
                 3.10.19. Understand mobile target attributes
                 3.10.20. Understand that some CBRN targets will be hard and deeply buried
                 3.10.21. Understand the importance of high value targets in CF operations
                 3.10.22. Understand the importance of the target in order to prioritize tracking
                 3.10.23. Utilize knowledge of adversary's CBRN capability to deny, disrupt, dissuade, and/or destroy that capability
                 3.10.24. Understand the no-strike list, restricted strike list, and restrictions on weapons
                 3.10.25. Understand and consider CBRN effects in C-CBRN AD and CF planning
                 3.10.28. Consider retargeting based on BDA
                 3.10.29. Analyze effectiveness of CF operations against CBRN targets using experimentation via wargaming, modeling and
                          simulations, and exercises
                 3.10.30. Demonstrate the application of standing ROE to CBRN targets as appropriate, and understand C-CBRN-unique ROE
                 3.10.31. Assess effectiveness of interdiction operations against high value personnel
                 3.10.33. Distinguish between CBRN and conventional target sets
                 3.10.35. Understand and apply the benefits of aggressive IO to the CBRN CF mission
                 3.10.37. Understand the full range of attack options and the optimized combination of weapons and platforms to produce
                          various options for effects-based kills
                 3.10.40. Understand the differences between pre-, trans-, and post-strike IO
                 3.10.41. Understand the importance of hazard characterization and analysis in the targeting process
                 3.10.43. Understand the process of matching available weapons and their effects against CBRN target vulnerabilities in order to
                          achieve a specific level of disruption, denial, or damage
                 3.10.44. Understand the risk assessment and management process for CBRN targets
                 3.10.46. Understand commander's intent as it relates to the CBRN CF mission and every element of the Air Force dynamic
                          targeting process
                 3.10.47. Understand how the pace of operations is affected by CBRN targets
                 3.10.48. Demonstrate the ability to intercept low-radar cross section platforms
3.11. C-CBRN 3.11.1. Demonstrate appropriate FP capabilities against inbound CBRN threats, including those employing unconventional
Force Protection          delivery means and methods
                 3.11.4. Execute expedient hardening
                 3.11.5. Protect against secondary attacks
                 3.11.6. Understand FP implications of the CBRN threat
78                                                                     AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


3.12. C-CBRN 3.12.1. Recognize deviations from normal conditions as potential indicators of enemy CBRN intent
Force Protection 3.12.2. Know, identify, understand and respond to the local and national threat conditions
Planning         3.12.3. Recognize suspicious activity
                 3.12.4. Identify the potential security vulnerabilities created by various avenues of approach to an installation (e.g., streams,
                           ponds, pipes, water mains, ports of entry via air, space and surface/ground)
                 3.12.8. Identify local industrial hazards
                 3.12.9. Understand factors affecting preparation of the airbase for a CBRN attack
3.13. C-CBRN 3.13.1. Apply combat lifesaving skills in a CBRN-contaminated environment
Medical          3.13.2. Demonstrate self aid and buddy care (SABC) basics for CBRN exposure
Activities       3.13.3. Understand and demonstrate medical treatment of contaminated personnel
                 3.13.4. Conduct contaminated casualty movement
                 3.13.5. Protect individuals from CBRN effects through medical prophylaxis
                 3.13.6. Understand the need to monitor local populations for diseases of operational importance
3.14. C-CBRN 3.14.1. Understand the importance of medical FP requirements
Medical
                 3.14.3. Understand medical pre-treatment and post-exposure screening and treatment
Planning
3.15. C-CBRN 3.15.1. Protect individuals, equipment and assets from CBRN effects
Equipment and 3.15.2. Demonstrate wear, inspection and maintenance of individual protective equipment/personal protective equipment
Procedures                 (IPE/PPE)
                 3.15.3. Know and implement MOPP operations
                 3.15.5. Plan for and perform Split-MOPP operations
                 3.15.6. Demonstrate use of personal decontamination materials
                 3.15.7. Pre-position appropriate detection material
                 3.15.8. Understand and employ contamination control techniques and procedures
                 3.15.9. Understand principles of collective protection
                 3.15.10. Understand facility hardening levels and the implications on MOPP levels
3.16. C-CBRN 3.16.1. Know Air Force, Joint and Coalition warning systems and reporting procedures
Warning          3.16.2. Recognize Air Force standardized attack warning signals for CBRN medium and high threat areas
Systems          3.16.3. React to Air Force, Joint and Coalition alarm conditions and protective postures
3.17. C-CBRN 3.17.1. Organize, train and equip forces to operate in a CBRN-contaminated environment
Activities       3.17.2. Demonstrate Air Force CBRN CM operations and activities
                 3.17.3. Assess and react in a timely manner to actual and potential attacks
                 3.17.4. Perform immediate and operational decontamination procedures
                 3.17.5. Demonstrate proper procedures for remediation activities, to include decontamination, collection and disposal actions
                 3.17.6. Demonstrate the use of tools and techniques to determine transition points in a CBRN-contaminated environment
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                              79


                   3.17.7. Execute work-rest cycles and hydration standards
                   3.17.8. Understand and demonstrate hazard avoidance
                   3.17.9. Perform pre-deployment activities
                   3.17.11. Understand and demonstrate the transfer of equipment and personnel through contaminated environments
                   3.17.12. Understand and demonstrate the use of contaminated assets to continue operations
                   3.17.13. Demonstrate C-CBRN force capabilities
                   3.17.14. Demonstrate the ability to conduct air, ground and sea C-CBRN interdiction operations
                   3.17.15. Organize, align and employ resources against multiple CBRN threats
                   3.17.16. Plan for NEO in a CBRN-contaminated environment
3.18. C-CBRN       3.18.1. Understand the concept of ―A  ll Airmen are sensors‖
Operational        3.18.2. Understand the C-CBRN operational spectrum
Spectrum           3.18.8. Understand that CF operations and activities may occur throughout the spectrum of conflict
                   3.18.9. Understand the roles of specialized teams
3.19. C-CBRN
                   3.19.4. Demonstrate proficiency in CBRN up-channel reporting procedures/requirements
Reporting
3.20. C-CBRN       3.20.1. Understand national and specifically Air Force contributions to PP
Interoperability   3.20.2. Demonstrate knowledge of Joint, combined, and Coalition theater operations in a CBRN-contaminated environment
                   3.20.3. Develop and conduct C-CBRN exercises with Joint, combined, Coalition and interagency partners
                   3.20.5. Establish operations in a Joint, combined, Coalition and interagency C-CBRN community
                   3.20.6. Establish interagency intelligence sharing
                   3.20.7. Understand own role with Joint, combined, Coalition and other partners in the C-CBRN community
                   3.20.8. Consider potential US and Coalition consequences and resultant mitigation efforts of a CF attack on CBRN targets
                   3.20.9. Demonstrate viability of existing MOU/MOA in a C-CBRN context
                   3.20.15. Conduct intra- and inter-military, military-to-civilian, and interagency C-CBRN operations and activities
                   3.20.18. Understand interagency cooperation related to C-CBRN homeland defense
                   3.20.24. Understand the need to integrate the Air Force, Joint and Coalition detection networks and warning and reporting
                            procedures and capabilities
                   3.20.25. Develop interservice, interagency, and international agreements for sharing CBRN threat information
                   3.20.26. Establish international agreements for the aeromedical evacuation of contaminated/contagious patients/casualties and
                            the movement of contaminated/contagious remains, consistent with HQ AMC and HQ USTC guidance
                   3.20.28. Understand the integration of space, air, land and sea forces to address a CBRN threat
                   3.20.29. Understand the various support/response options the Air Force provides in DSCA
3.21. CBRN         3.21.1. Know and identify typical CBRN agents and elements, their characteristics and effects (i.e., persistency, lethality,
Characteristics             toxicity, symptoms, signatures/identification of agent or precursor) upon humans and the environment, to include
                            operating locations
80                                                              AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


             3.21.2. Know the risks of operating in CBRN environments at varying levels of contamination
             3.21.3. Understand the CBRN threat, characteristics, delivery means and methods
             3.21.6. Recognize possible improvised explosive devices
             3.21.7. Recognize behavioral and physical symptoms possibly associated with CBRN exposure
             3.21.8. Understand CBRN-unique collateral damage/effects considerations and their potential impact on courses of action
             3.21.9. Understand indicators of a covert CBRN attack
3.22. CBRN   3.22.1. Demonstrate the proper use of IPE/PPE while participating in C-CBRN operations
Mitigation   3.22.2. Know CBRN mitigation methods and their limitations
             3.22.3. Understand personnel contamination control procedures
             3.22.4. Understand restriction of movement procedures for a CBRN event
             3.22.5. Understand shelter in place principles and procedures
             3.22.6. Demonstrate the principles of personal, equipment and patient decontamination
             3.22.10. Know CBRN agent prophylaxes and their limitations
             3.22.11. Model CBRN agent movement/persistence to support health risk assessments, determine PPE requirements, and
                       support operational decisions
             3.22.12. Understand decontamination levels (i.e., immediate, operational, thorough, clearance) and limits
             3.22.13. Understand the safe transport, handling and disposal of CBRN-contaminated materials and personnel
             3.22.14. Understand the Air Force cover policy for CBRN contamination avoidance
             3.22.15. Understand the value of asset dispersal and cover
             3.22.16. Understand the purpose of cordon
             3.22.17. Understand operational implications of detection/detector results
             3.22.18. Understand and participate in the installation detection network
             3.22.19. Identify requirements, based upon CBRN agent, for collective protection
             3.22.20. Execute contaminated asset recording/tracking procedures
             3.22.21. Apply proper procedures during the removal of contaminated barrier material to avoid cross-contamination of
                       personnel or assets
               3.22.24. Demonstrate reporting and documentation requirements for previously contaminated assets
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                81


                                                             Attachment 4
                                    REFERENCES FOR C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCIES

NOTE: This is NOT an all-inclusive list.


  Category           Competency    National/DoD/Joint                            AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
  3.1. C-CBRN        3.1.1.        CBRND FNA/FSA, (JRO) Dec 2005,                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. vi, 54
  Terminology                       paras 2.3.3.1, 2.8.3.1, 17.18.3.1            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                   JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-1, 4-6, II-3     AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                   DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5              AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 54
                                   AFJM 32-4003 (12 JAN 1971) , p. 3             AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12
                                                                                 AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, p. 4
                     3.1.2.        JP 3-40 (8 JUL 2004), GL-4                    AFI 10-2603 (7 DEC 2005), pp. 23-24
                                                                                 AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 65-68
                     3.1.3.        JP 2-0 (22 Jun 2007) , GL 15                  AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 2
  3.2. C-CBRN        3.2.1.        JP 3-40 (8 JUL 2004)                          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. viii,7
  Doctrine, Policy   3.2.2.        JP 3-40 (8 JUL 2004), p. vi                   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.7
  and Guidance       3.2.3.        JP 3-40 (8 JUL 2004), p. I-7                  AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 10-11
                     3.2.4.                                                      AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 46,47
                                                                                 AFI 10-2604 (6 APR 2007), pp. 7-8, 11, 15-25
                     3.2.5.        JP 3-41 (2 OCT 2006), III-15                  AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 46,47
                     3.2.6.        JP 3-41 (2 OCT 2006), vii                     AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 126
                                   HSPD 5 (FEB 2003)
                     3.2.7.        CJCSI 3520.02A (1 MAR 2007)                   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 7
                     3.2.8.        Biological Weapons Convention                 AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p. 28
                                   (BWC) (26 MAR 1975) Article 1                 AFPD 16-6 (25 FEB 2004)
                                   Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) (29 APR 1997)
                                   Article 1
                                   START II (3 JAN 1993)
                     3.2.9.                                                      AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.31
                                                                                 AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), p.17
82                                                            AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category         Competency   National/DoD/Joint                             AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                  3.2.10.      The Proliferation Security Initiative:         AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 17
                               Statement of Interdiction Principles
                               (adopted in Paris. September 4, 2003)
                  3.2.11.                                                     AFPAM 10-219 (1 FEB 2006), Vol 6
                  3.2.12.                                                     AFI 10-2603 (7 DEC 2005), p. 7
                  3.2.13.      National Incident Management                   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 51
                               System (2004), pp. 25-28, 37                   AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 3,5
 3.3. Adversary   3.3.1.                                                      AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 9
 CBRN             3.3.2.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-14,              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 26, 32
 Intelligence                  DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), p. 24               AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 38
                                                                              AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                              AFPD 14-2 (29 NOV 2007), p. 3
                                                                              AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 48, 54
                                                                              AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), p. 13
                  3.3.3.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-14,              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 26, 32
                               DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), p. 24               AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 38
                                                                              AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                              AFPD 14-2 (29 NOV 2007), p. 3
                                                                              AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 48, 54
                                                                              AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), p. 13
                  3.3.4.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-14,              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 26, 32
                               DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), p. 24               AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 38
                                                                              AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                              AFPD 14-2 (29 NOV 2007), p. 3
                                                                              AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 48, 54
                                                                              AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), p. 13
                  3.3.5.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-14,              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 26, 32
                               DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), p. 24               AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 38
                                                                              AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                              AFPD 14-2 (29 NOV 2007), p. 3
                                                                              AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 48, 54
                                                                              AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), p. 13
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                         83


 Category           Competency   National/DoD/Joint                       AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                    3.3.6.       29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)            AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. vi,1, 32-33
                                 JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-5,6, II-3   AFDD 2-4.4 (13 NOV 1999), p. 24
                                 DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30, 31    AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                 MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002),Enclosure A    AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                          AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                                          AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                          15, 219
                                                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 20-35,143-
                                                                          148, 219
                                                                          AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp.13,14,31
                                                                          AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
                    3.3.7.                                                AFPAM 14-123 (10 MAR 2008), pp.1-6
                    3.3.8.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-5,6, II-3   AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 5, 20
                                 DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30, 31    AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 6, 7
                                                                          AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                          AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                          AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                                          AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                          15 , 219
                                                                          AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 13
                                                                          AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
                    3.3.9.                                                AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), pp. 4, 10, 13
                                                                          AFI 14-202 (10 MAR 2008), Vol 3, p.14
                    3.3.10.                                               AFI 14-106 (5 SEP 2002), pp. 1-4
                    3.3.11.                                               AFI 10-2502, Vol 3, p.13
                    3.3.12.                                               AFI 10-2502, Vol 3, p.13
                    3.3.13.                                               AFPAM 14-114 (10 MAR 2008), p.11
 3.4. C-CBRN        3.4.1.                                                AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), pp.10,-15
 Intelligence,      3.4.2.                                                AFPAM 14-114 (10 MAR 2008), p. 12
 Surveillance and   3.4.3.                                                AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), p.3
 Reconnaissance     3.4.4.                                                AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 6-7
                                                                          AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), pp. 5, 13,-16
                    3.4.5.                                                AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 6-7
84                                            AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category   Competency   National/DoD/Joint                   AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
            3.4.6.                                            AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 6-7
            3.4.7.                                            AFI 10-2502 Vol 3, p. 81
            3.4.8.                                            AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), pp. 3, 10, 13
            3.4.9.                                            AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp.6-7
            3.4.10.                                           AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                              AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                              15, 219
                                                              AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 20-35, 143-
                                                              148, 219
                                                              AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.13
                                                              AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                              AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
            3.4.11.                                           AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 6-7
            3.4.12.                                           AFI 14-201 (1 DEC 2002), pp. 6-8
            3.4.13.                                           AFPAM 14-123 (10 MAR 2008), pp. 2,3
                                                              AFI 14-104 (16 APR 2007), pp. 9,-12
            3.4.14.                                           AFPAM 14-114 (10 MAR 2008), p.11
            3.4.15.                                           AFPAM 14-114 (10 MAR 2008), p.11
            3.4.16.                                           AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 19
            3.4.17.                                           AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp.6-7
            3.4.18.                                           AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 6-7
            3.4.19.                                           AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), pp. 29-36
            3.4.20.                                           AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), pp. 30-31
            3.4.21.                                           AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 21
            3.4.22.                                           AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), pp. 18-43
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                            85


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
 3.5. C-CBRN   3.5.1.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. III-29-32                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 47
 Planning                   JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81; 95
                            JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), p. IV-6                       AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10; 168-169
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006) , Chap. VIII                   AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000) , pp. 1-10
                            USTRANSCOM/TCCC Memo, Policy for Patient            AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), pp. IV-5; A-6
                            Movement of Contaminated Contagious or              AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                            Potentially Exposed Casualties, (14 Mar 08)         AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFTTP 3-42.5 (1 NOV 2003), pp. 23
                            AFJI 11-204 (11 NOV 1994)                           AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.5.2.                                                           AFMAN 10-401(1 MAY 1998) Vol. 2
                                                                                AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 61
               3.5.3.       DOD 4500.54-G, DOD Foreign                          AFI 24-405(4 MAY 2004)
                            Clearance Guide (1 MAY 1991)
               3.5.4.                                                           AFH 10-247 (20 JAN 2006), Vol. 4, p. 6
               3.5.5.       PDD 39 ( 21 JUN 1995)                               AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp. 2-3
                            Federal Response Plan Terrorism
                            Incident Annex (APR 1999)
                            Strategy for Homeland Defense and
                            Civil Support, (JUN 2005) pp. 8,12, 15, 31
               3.5.6.                                                           AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), all
               3.5.7.                                                           AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p.151
               3.5.8.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. III-29-32                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 47
                            JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81; 95
                            JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), p. IV-6                       AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10; 168-169
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006) , Chap. VIII                   AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000) , pp. 1-10
                            USTRANSCOM/TCCC Memo, Policy for Patient            AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), pp. IV-5; A-6
                            Movement of Contaminated Contagious or              AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                            Potentially Exposed Casualties, 14 Mar 08           AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.5.9.                                                           AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 1-4
                                                                                AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp..9-11
               3.5.10.                                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), p. 189
                                                                                AFI 34-242 (2 APR 2008), pp. 122-128
86                                                   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category   Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
            3.5.11.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. III-29-32                AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81; 95
                         JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp 10; 168-169
                         JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), pp IV-6                       AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000), pp 1-10; 1-16-18
                         JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006) , Chap. VIII                   AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                         USTRANSCOM/TCCC Memo,                               AFTTP 3-42.5 (1 NOV 2003), pp. 23
                         Policy for Patient Movement of                      AFTTP 3-42.32, (20 APR 2004) pp. 14
                         Contaminated Contagious or                          AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                         Potentially Exposed Casualties, 14 Mar 08           AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                         MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
                         AFJI 11-204 (11 NOV 1994)
                         AFJI 24-210 (14 JAN 2000)
            3.5.12.      National Military Strategy –CWMD                    AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p. 28
                         (13 FEB 2006), p. 23
                         JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6
            3.5.13.                                                          AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), pp. 23, 28
            3.5.14.                                                          AFDD 2-5 (11 JAN 2005), p.14
                                                                             AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p. 28
            3.5.15.                                                          AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), pp. 9-10
            3.5.16.      JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-2-4                       AFI 14-117 (1 JUL 1998), p. 3
                                                                             AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998)
            3.5.17.                                                          AFMAN 10-401 (1 MAY 1998) Vol 2.
                                                                             AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), D-1
            3.5.18.                                                          AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 30, 62
            3.5.19.                                                          AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), pp. 30-31
            3.5.20.                                                          AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
            3.5.21.                                                          AFI 13-1AOCV3 (1 AUG 2005), pp. 68, 79
            3.5.22.                                                          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp.10, 50
                                                                             AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p.43
            3.5.23.                                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 60-63
                                                                             AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 36, 46-47
            3.5.24.                                                          AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 137-147
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                             87


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
               3.5.25.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. II-4; V-3; VI 5-7        AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81; 95
                            JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp 10; 168-169
                            JP 3-07.5 (30 SEP 1997)                             AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.5.26.                                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, p. 75-
               3.5.27.      JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13           AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 60-63
                                                                                AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10, 168- 169
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.5.28.      JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 95
                            JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), pp. IV-6                      AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp.10; 168-169
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.5.29.                                                          AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), p. 4
               3.5.30.      JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13           AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 16-17
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
                            STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), p. 12
               3.5.31.                                                          AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp 24-30
               3.5.32.                                                          AFPAM 10-219 (1 DEC 1995)V1, pp. 34,48, 49, 51-61
                                                                                AFI 10-211 (6 APR 2006), pp. 4-5
                                                                                AFI 10-2502 Vol 3, pp.83, 84
               3.5.33.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. III-29-32                AFPAM 10-219 (1 DEC 1995)V1, pp. 34, 48, 49, 51-61
                            JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7;                     AFI 10-211 (6 APR 2006), pp. 4-5
                            VII-10-13; VII 26-27                                AFI 10-2502 Vol 3, pp.83, 84
                            JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), pp IV-6                       AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 47
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006) , Chap. VIII                   AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81; 95
                            USTRANSCOM/TCCC Memo, Policy for Patient            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp 10; 168-169
                            Movement of Contaminated Contagious or              AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000) , pp. 1-10
                            Potentially Exposed Casualties, 14 Mar 08           AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 ( 1 DEC 2001), pp. IV-5; A-6
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                                                                                AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
 3.6. C-CBRN   3.6.1.                                                           AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 37-46
 Reachback     3.6.2.                                                           AFDD 2-5 (11 JAN 2005), pp. 22, 34, 35, 37
               3.6.3.                                                           AFDD 2-5 (11 JAN 2005), pp. 22, 37
88                                                     AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
               3.6.4.                                                           AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007) pp. 34-37
               3.6.5.                                                           AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 37-47
               3.6.6.                                                           AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 37-47
               3.6.7.                                                           AFDD 2-5 (11 JAN 2005), pp. 22, 37,
                                                                                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 37
               3.6.8.                                                           AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 37
                                                                                AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp.47-124
               3.6.9.                                                           AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 37-47
               3.6.10.                                                          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 34, 42
               3.6.11.                                                          AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 46-47
               3.6.12.      National Response Framework (22MAR 2008)            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 85-86
 3.7. C-CBRN   3.7.1.       CJCSI 3121.01A (15 JAN 2000)                        AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 28-30
 Preparation   3.7.2.                                                           AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.7.3.                                                           AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 60-63
                                                                                AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.7.4.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp III-32                    AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 60-63
                            JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81; 95
                            JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), pp. IV-6                      AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp 10; 168-169
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006), Chap. VIII                    AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                            STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), pp.12; 24; 26            AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007) p. 63
                            Formal Test Report for the Large-Frame Aircraft
                            Decontamination Demonstration, US Army Dugway
                             Proving Ground, (Dec 04)
               3.7.5.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. III-30                   AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.7.6.       JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13           AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 60-63
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006) , Chap. VIII                   AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10,168-169
                            MCM -0026-02, (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B            AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
                            STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), pp. 12 ; 24 ; 26
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                            89


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                               AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
               3.7.7.       Biological Weapons Convention                    AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p. 28
                            (BWC) (26 MAR 1975) Article 1                    AFPD 16-6 (25 FEB 2004)
                            Chemical Weapons Convention                      AFMAN 16-601 (20 JUN 2003)
                            (CWC) (29 APR 1997) Article 1                    AFMAN 16-602 (18 DEC 2000)
                            START II
               3.7.8.                                                        AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 26-27
                                                                             AFTTP(I) 3-2.56 (2 FEB 2006), Appendix D
               3.7.9.       Title 18, U.S. Code, Sections 375, 1385          AFI 14-104 (16 APR 2007)
                            DODD 5240.1 (27 AUG 2007),                       AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 69
                            DOD 5240.1-R (DEC 1982);
                            DODD 5148.11(21 MAY 2004)
               3.7.10.                                                          AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 80,81
                                                                                AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p.39, 53
               3.7.11.      JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13           AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp 10, 168-169
                            STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), pp. 24                   AFTTP 3-42.5 (1 NOV 2003), pp. 23
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.7.12.      AFJI 11-204 (11 NOV 1994)                           AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81; 95
                            JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp III-32                    AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10; 168-169
                            JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                            JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), pp IV-6                       AFTTP 3-42.5 (1 NOV 2003), pp. 23
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006) , Chap. VIII                   AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                            USTRANSCOM/TCCC Memo, Policy for Patient            AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
                            Movement of Contaminated Contagious or
                            Potentially Exposed Casualties, 14 Mar 08
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B
                            STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), pp.24
               3.7.13.                                                          AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 14, 95
                                                                                AFI 10-218, p.18
               3.7.14.                                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 26-27
               3.7.15.                                                          AFTTP 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), VI-1
               3.7.16.      MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
 3.8. C-CBRN   3.8.1.                                                           AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 19, 30, 31
 Command and                                                                    AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
 Control                                                                        AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
90                                                   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category   Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                 AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
            3.8.2.       JP 3-41 (2 OCT 2006), II-3-III 3,4                 AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 40-45
            3.8.3.       PDD 62 (22 MAY 1998), Para 3                       AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 12
                         NSPD 17/HSPD 4 (DEC 2002)                          AFDD 2-8 (1 JUN 2007), p. 26
                         Federal Response Plan Terrorism Incident Annex,    AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp. 39-40
                         pp. TI-7-13                                        AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                         CJCSI 3125. DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), p. 6        AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                         DODI 2000.21, (10 MAR 2006) p. 4                   AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                         JP 3-41 (2 OCT 2006), Chap. 2 para 2a.01A, pp.8-10 AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 54-55
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. IV-9
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), pp. I-1, 2
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 9-12
            3.8.4.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-17                   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 57
                                                                            AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp. 39-40
                                                                            AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFI 10-245 (21 JUN 2002) , pp. 22-23
                                                                            AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 13, 61-64
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 137-142
                                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
            3.8.5.                                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 9-12
                                                                            AFI 10-206 (4 OCT 2004)
            3.8.6.                                                          AFPD 14-1 (2 APR 2004), p. 1-2
            3.8.7.                                                          AFI 10-215 (15 NOV 2002) , p.49
            3.8.8.                                                          AFDD 2-8 (1 JUN 2007), p. 19
                                                                            AFPD 90-9 (1 APR 2000) , pp. 1-3
                                                                            AFI 90-901 (1 APR 2000) , pp.1-5
            3.8.9.                                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 50-51
            3.8.10.                                                         AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p.16
                                                                            AFDD 2-8 (1 JUN 2007), p.17
            3.8.11.                                                         AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, p.88
            3.8.12.                                                         AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, (all)
            3.8.13.                                                         AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 51, 52
            3.8.14.                                                         AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 80, 81
                                                                            AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p. 39, 53
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                           91


 Category            Competency   National/DoD/Joint                        AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                     3.8.15.                                                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 7,8
                     3.8.16.                                                AFMAN 10-2502 Vol 3, p. 88
                                                                            AFDD 2-5 (11 JAN 2005), pp. 14,15
                                                                            AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 27, 28, 29
                                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), p. 4
                     3.8.17.                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
                     3.8.18.                                                AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), p. 82
                                                                            AFPD 90-9 (1 APR 2000) , p. 3
                                                                            AFI 90-901 (1 APR 2000) , pp .2-3
                                                                            AFI 10-2502 Vol 3, p. 85
                     3.8.19.                                                AFDD 2-8 (1 JUN 2007), pp. 79, 84-87
                     3.8.20.                                                AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 4,166
 3.9. C-CBRN         3.9.1.                                                 AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.8
 Communication       3.9.2.                                                 AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, p.113
                     3.9.3.                                                 AFPD 90-8 (1 SEP 2004) , p. 4
                     3.9.4.                                                 AFDD 2-5 (11 JAN 2005), p. 14
                                                                            AFPD 90-8 (1 SEP 2004) , p. 4
                     3.9.5.                                                 AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp.8, 52
                     3.9.6.                                                 AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p.78
                     3.9.7.                                                 AFH 10-2502 (30 Oct 2001), pp. 60-63
                     3.9.8.       JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-6           AFDD 2-5 (11 JAN 2005), p 14
                                                                            AFPD 90-8 (1 SEP 2004) , p. 4
                                                                            AFI 35-101, (29 NOV 2005) p. 127
 3.10. C-CBRN        3.10.1.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6,         AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 14, 54
 Strike Operations                Global Strike Joint Integrating Concept   AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                  Version 1.0, (10 JAN 2005) pp. 4-9,10     AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. I-1
                     3.10.2.      National Military Strategy –CWMD          AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p. 29
                                   (13 FEB 2006), p. 23                     AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp.
                                  JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6          9,18,20,21,23,26,52
                                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                                                            AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. I-3
                                                                            AFPAM 14-114 (10 MAR 2008), p. 6
92                                                   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category   Competency   National/DoD/Joint                              AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
            3.10.3.      Global Strike Joint Integrating                 AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p. 8
                         Concept Version 1.0, (10 JAN 2005) pp. 4-9,10   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 28-30
                                                                         AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                                                         AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                                                                         AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 24-25, 35
            3.10.4.      National Military Strategy –CWMD                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 18
                          (13 FEB 2006), p.23                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                         JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-6,                 AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                         DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5                AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p.73
                                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                         15
                                                                         AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 143-148, 219
                                                                         AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp.1,3
                                                                         AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
            3.10.5.      National Military Strategy –CWMD                AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p. 8
                         (13 FEB 2006), p.13                             AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 28, 30
                         Global Strike Joint Integrating                 AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                         Concept Version 1.0, (10 JAN 2005)p. 3-1        AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                         AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 24-25, 35
            3.10.6.                                                      AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p.44
                                                                         AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 69-77
            3.10.7.                                                      AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), p. 4
                                                                         AFI 14-117 (1 JUL 1998), p.4
                                                                         AFI 51-402, (13 MAY 1994) pp. 1-3
            3.10.8.      National Military Strategy –CWMD                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 18
                          (13 FEB 2006), p. 23                           AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                         JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-6,                 AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                         DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5                AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p.73
                                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                         15
                                                                         AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 143-148, 219
                                                                         AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp.1,3
                                                                         AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                             93


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                 AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
               3.10.9.      JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-4        AFI 14-117 (1 JUL 1998), p.5
                                                               PC-8060-1-96, Battle Damage
                                                               Assessment (BDA) Quick Guide
               3.10.10.                                        AFI 10-2502 Vol 3, p. 13
                                                               AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 7-8
               3.10.11.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 7-9
               3.10.12.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 52
               3.10.13.     JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-2-4      AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 12
                                                               AFPAM 14-121 (10 MAR 2008), p.7
               3.10.14.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 92
               3.10.15.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 20-21
               3.10.16.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 56-60
               3.10.17.     JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-4        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 56-60
               3.10.18.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 56-60
               3.10.19.     JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-5        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 56-60
               3.10.20.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 57
               3.10.21.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p.14, 47
               3.10.22.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 14, 47
               3.10.23.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 56-60
               3.10.24.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 54
               3.10.25.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 7
               3.10.26.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 16, 57-62
               3.10.27.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 45,48,50,51
               3.10.28.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 71
               3.10.29.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 27
               3.10.30.     National Military Strategy –CWMD   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 18
                            (13 FEB 2006), p.23                AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                            JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-6,    AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12,
                            DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5   14, 15
                                                               AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 143-148, 219
                                                               AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp.1,3
                                                               AFTTP(I) 3-2.42, ( 1 MAR 2003) p. B-5
               3.10.31.                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 76-77
94                                                             AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category           Competency   National/DoD/Joint                              AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                    3.10.32.     JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-2                     AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 42
                                                                                 AFPAM 14-114 (10 MAR 2008), p.5
                    3.10.33.                                                     AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 33
                    3.10.34.                                                     AFPAM 14-121 , (10 MAR 2008) p.2
                    3.10.35.     DODD S-3600.1                                   AFPD 10-7 (6 SEP 2006) (6 SEP 2006), p. 3
                                                                                 AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 82
                    3.10.36.     JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-2-5                   AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 69-77
                    3.10.37.     JP 3-55 (14 APR 1993), IV-2-5                   AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 56-60
                    3.10.38.                                                     AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p.56
                    3.10.39.                                                     AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p.14
                    3.10.40.                                                     AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 11, Figure 1.2
                    3.10.41.     National Military Strategy –CWMD                AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p. 29
                                 (13 FEB 2006), p. 23                            AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp.
                                 JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6                9,18,20,21,23,26,52
                                                                                 AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                                                                 AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                                 AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. I-3
                                                                                 AFPAM 14-114 (10 MAR 2008), p. 6
                    3.10.42.                                                     AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), pp. 51,52
                    3.10.43.                                                     AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 56-60
                    3.10.44.                                                     AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 80,81
                                                                                 AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p.39, 53
                    3.10.45.                                                     AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998) , pp. 51, 52, 54, 70
                    3.10.46.                                                     AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), pp. 8-9, 46-56
                    3.10.47.     Global Strike Joint Integrating                 AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p. 8
                                 Concept Version 1.0, (10 JAN 2005) pp. 4-9,10   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 28-30
                                                                                 AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                                                                 AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                                                                                 AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), pp. 24-25, 35
                    3.10.48.     DODI S-5230.28 (2 OCT 2000)                     AFDD 2-1.1 (26 APR 2002), p. 21
                    3.10.49.                                                     AFDD 2-1.9 (8 JUN 2006), p. 23
 3.11. C-CBRN       3.11.1.                                                      AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 1, 17, 39
 Force Protection   3.11.2.      AFJI 31-102 (5 JUL 1995), p. 5                  AFPD 31-1 (7 JUL 2007) , p. 3
                    3.11.3.      CJCSI 3121.01A (15 JAN 2000)                    AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 28-30
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                   95


 Category           Competency   National/DoD/Joint                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                    3.11.4.                                          AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3. p. 20
                    3.11.5.                                          AFDD 2-4.1 , (9 NOV 2004) pp. 19-22
                    3.11.6.                                          AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 1, 17, 39
                    3.11.7.                                          AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 14, 48
 3.12. C-CBRN       3.12.1.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-14,   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 26, 32
 Force Protection                DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), p. 24    AFDD 2-5 .2 (21 APR 1999), p. 38
 Planning                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                     AFPD 14-2 (29 NOV 2007), p. 3
                                                                     AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 48, 54
                                                                     AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), p. 13
                    3.12.2.                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004),
                                                                     pp. 77-80, 91-93, 202, 203
                    3.12.3.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-14,   AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 26, 32
                                 DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), p. 24    AFDD 2-5 .2 (21 APR 1999), p. 38
                                                                     AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                     AFPD 14-2 (29 NOV 2007), p. 3
                                                                     AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 48, 54
                                                                     AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), p. 13
                    3.12.4.      AFJI 31-102 (5 JUL 1995), pp. 7-8   AFI 31-301 (15 MAY 2002) , pp. 5-6
                    3.12.5.                                          AFDD 2-1.1, (26 Apr 2002) p. 68
                    3.12.6.                                          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 34
                    3.12.7.                                          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 43, 44
                    3.12.8.                                          AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p.73
                                                                     AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                     15, 219
                                                                     AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 20-35, 134-
                                                                     139, 143-148, 219
                                                                     AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.13
                                                                     AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                     AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
                    3.12.9.                                          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 32-38
                    3.12.10.                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp.140, 147, 244
 3.13. C-CBRN       3.13.1.                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 8-10,17
 Medical                                                             AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp.20, 52
96                                                       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category       Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
 Activities     3.13.2.                                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp.176, 177,
                                                                                 Critical Information Checklist
                3.13.3.                                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp.176, 177,
                                                                                 Critical Information Checklist
                3.13.4.      JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3,p. 15
                             USTRANSCOM/TCCC Memo,                               AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 47
                             Policy for Patient Movement of                      AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 95
                             Contaminated Contagious or                          AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10; 168-169
                             Potentially Exposed Casualties, (14 Mar 08)         AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000) , pp. 1-10; 1-16-18
                             MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), pp. IV-5; A-6
                                                                                 AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                                                                                 AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                                                                                 AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
                3.13.5.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-5,6, II-3              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 7, 10
                             DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30,31                AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                             Joint Vision 2020 pp. 32-35                         AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                             MCM 0026-02                                         AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                             (26 APR 0002),Enclosure A                           AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                             National Military Strategy –CWMD                    15
                              (13 FEB 2006), p.25                                AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 20-35, 143-
                                                                                 148, 219
                                                                                 AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.13
                                                                                 AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), pp. II-9, B-5
                3.13.6.      AFJMAN 44-151 (1 FEB 1996), Para 203-204            AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000), p. B-8
                                                                                 AFI 48-105 (1 MAR 2005) , p. 7
 3.14. C-CBRN   3.14.1.                                                          AFDD 2-4.2 (11 DEC 2002), pp. 50, 51
 Medical        3.14.2.                                                          AFI 48-105 (1 MAR 2005) , pp.7,10
 Planning       3.14.3.      AFJMAN 44-151 (1 FEB 1996), Para 218-220            AFDD 2-4.2 (11 DEC 2002), p.7 5
                3.14.4.                                                          AFMAN 44-156(I) (17 JUN 2000), p. 4-4
                3.14.5.                                                          AFDD 2-9 (17 JUL 2007), pp. 22-25
                3.14.6.                                                          AFDD 2-4.2 (11 DEC 2002), p. 51
                                                                                 AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp.14,37
                3.14.7.                                                          AFI 48-105 (1 MAR 2005), pp. 5-8
                3.14.8.                                                          AFMAN 48-153 (28 MAR 2007), pp. 3-21
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                          97


 Category        Competency   National/DoD/Joint                            AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                 3.14.9.                                                    AFMAN 48-153 (28 MAR 2007), p. 18
                                                                            AFMAN 48-154 (28 MAR 2007), p. 2
 3.15. C-CBRN    3.15.1.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)                 AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 56
 Equipment and                                                              AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
 Procedures                                                                 AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                            AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 55, 73
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. II-9
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), Appendix B
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp.182-188
                 3.15.2.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-5,6, II-3        AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 7, 10
                              DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30,31          AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                              Joint Vision 2020 pp. 32-35 MCM 0026-02 (26   AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                              APR 2002), Enclosure A                        AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                            15
                                                                            AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 20-35, 143-
                                                                            148, 204, 219
                                                                            AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.13
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), pp. II-9, B-5
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, Attachment 2
                                                                            AFMAN 32-4005 (30 OCT 2001) , pp. 65-70
                 3.15.3.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)                 AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 56
                                                                            AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                            AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 55, 73
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. II-9
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), Appendix B
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp.182-188
                 3.15.4.                                                    AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 34-35
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 62,63, 145,
                                                                            156, 158
                                                                            AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007), pp. 15
98                                                       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category       Competency   National/DoD/Joint                          AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                3.15.5.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)               AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 53
                                                                         AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp.173-175
                3.15.6.                                                  AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp.70,79
                3.15.7.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)               AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 53
                                                                         AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp.173-175
                3.15.8.                                                  AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 18,19
                                                                         Engineer Technical Letter 1110
                                                                         -3-490, (13 May 98),
                                                                         Design of Chemical Agent
                                                                         Collective Protection Shelters
                                                                          for New and Existing Facilities
                3.15.9.                                                  AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3. pp. 15-16
                3.15.10.                                                 AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 202, 203
                                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 58-62
 3.16. C-CBRN   3.16.1.                                                  AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004),
 Warning                                                                 pp. 77-80, 91-93, 202, 203
 Systems        3.16.2.                                                  AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 202, 203
                                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 58-62
                                                                         AFI 10-2502 Vol 3, p. 200
                3.16.3.      HSPD 8 (17 DEC 2003)                        AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 1, 10, 54-57
                             National Military Strategy –CWMD            AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 5, 9
                              (13 FEB 2006), p.5                         AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp. 39-40
                             JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-5,6, II-3      AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                             DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 6, 30, 31    AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                             DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p.5             15, 177
                                                                         AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.13
                                                                         AFTTP(I) 3-        2.42 (1 MAR 2003), pp. II-9,
                                                                         B-5
                                                                         AFMAN 10-2502, Vol. 3, pp. 4, 60, 68,89,
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                     99


 Category       Competency   National/DoD/Joint                       AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
 3.17. C-CBRN   3.17.1.      National Military Strategy –CWMD         AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 54-55, 57
 Activities                  (13 FEB 2006), p. 18,22                  AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                             JP 3-41 (2 OCT 2006), Chap. 1 Para. 3a   AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                      AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                      AFI 10-245 (21 JUN 2002) , pp. 22-23
                                                                      AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), VI-3
                                                                      AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 137-142
                3.17.2.      National Military Strategy –CWMD         AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 77-80, 91-93,
                             (13 FEB 2006), p. 4, 14, 20              202, 203
                                                                      AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 41-48
                3.17.3.                                               AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 58, 61, 65,
                                                                      68, 113,
                                                                      AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p. 169
                                                                      AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                                                                      T.O. 00-20-01 (30 APR 2003
                                                                      T.T. 00-110A-1 (31 MAR 05)
                                                                      T.O. 11C15-1-3 (28 FEB 2004)
                                                                      AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007), pp. 61-81
                3.17.4.                                               AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 173-176
                3.17.5.                                               AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 108-111,
                3.17.6.                                               AFMAN 32-4005 (30 OCT 2001) , pp. 5, 25, 26
                                                                      AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), p. 183,216
                3.17.7.                                               AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 50
                                                                      AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 16, 58, 62-64
                3.17.8.                                               AFI 10-215 (15 NOV 2002) , pp. 10-11
                3.17.9.      National Military Strategy –CWMD         AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), p. 10
                             (13 FEB 2006), p. 26                     AFH 31-305, (26 FEB 2003) pp. 5-6
                3.17.10.                                              AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 50
                                                                      AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 16, 58, 62-64
                3.17.11.                                              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 46-47
                3.17.12.                                              AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 4, 66, 114
                3.17.13.                                              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 18-26
                3.17.14.                                              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 13, 15, 16, 18, 23
100                                                         AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category       Competency   National/DoD/Joint                             AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                3.17.15.     JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. II-4; V-3; VI 5-7   AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10; 13,14,
                             JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13      168-169
                             JP 3-07.5 (30 SEP 1997)                        AMCP 10-260 (16 MAY 2005)
                             MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B         AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
                3.17.16.                                                    AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 14
                                                                            AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), p. 5
                                                                            AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 59
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. vii, 5, 13, 52
                                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                                                            AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
 3.18. C-CBRN   3.18.1.      CBRND FNA/FSA, (JRO) DEC 2005,                 AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. vi, 54
 Operational                  Paras. 2.3.3.1, 2.8.3.1, 17.18.3.1            AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 59
 Spectrum                    JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-1, 4-6, II-3      AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                             DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p.5                AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                             AFJM 32-4003 (12 JAN 1971) , p. 3              AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 54
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12
                                                                            AFI 10-2502, Vol 3, p. 4
                3.18.2.      National Military Strategy –CWMD               AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.13
                             (13 FEB 2006), p. 9,                           AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                             JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6               AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. I-3
                3.18.3.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-1, 4-6, II-3      AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 18-26
                             DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5               AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), p. 2,7
                                                                            AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 54
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12
                3.18.4.      DODD 2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5               AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 14,19
                                                                            AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), p. 5
                                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                                                            AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFTTP 3-10.1 (20 AUG 2004), pp. 8, 21
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                        101


 Category       Competency   National/DoD/Joint                            AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
                3.18.5.                                                    AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 54, 55
                                                                           AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                           AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                           AFPD 10-35 (4 FEB 2005) , pp. 2-3
                                                                           AFTTP 3-10.1 (20 AUG 2004), pp. 8, 21
                3.18.6.      National Military Strategy –CWMD              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 10
                             (13 FEB 2006), pp. 6, 7, 14, 17, 18, 24, 25
                3.18.7.                                                    AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 9, 13,15,23
                3.18.8.                                                    AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. , 21, 22
                3.18.9.                                                    AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 42-44, 56-60
                                                                           AFI 10-206, pp. 10-16, 81
 3.19. C-CBRN   3.19.1.                                                    AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 42-44, 56-60
 Reporting                                                                 AFI 10-206 (4 OCT 2004) , pp. 10-16, 81
                3.19.2.                                                    AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, p. 74
                3.19.3.                                                    AFMAN 10-2502, Vol. 3, pp. 70-74
                3.19.4.                                                    AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 16-17
                                                                           AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007), pp. 89-92
                3.19.5.                                                    AFH 10-222 (1 Feb 2006) Vol 1, p.14
                3.19.6.                                                    AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp.128, 202-205
                3.19.7.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)                 AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 56
                                                                           AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                           AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                           AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                           AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), pp. 55, 73,129
                                                                           AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. II-9
                                                                           AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), Appendix B
                                                                           AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp.182-188
102                                                             AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category           Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
 3.20. C-CBRN       3.20.1.      National Security Strategy 2006 p. 12, 19-23      AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.13
 Interoperability                National Military Strategy 2006, p.1              AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp 2,7
                                 National Military Strategy –CWMD                  AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                  (13 FEB 2006), pp. 5, 18                         AF Strategic Plan 2006-2008, p. 3
                                 PDD 39 ( 21 JUN 1995), para 4                     AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. I-1
                                 NSPD 17/HSPD 4 (DEC 2002)
                                 Global Strike Joint Integrating Concept Version
                                 1.0, (10 JAN 2005) pp. 3-4
                                 JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6,
                    3.20.2.                                                        AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.11
                    3.20.3.      National Military Strategy –CWMD                  AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.17
                                 (13 FEB 2006), pp. 26-27
                                 JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-5
                    3.20.4.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-6                   AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp. 26-27
                                                                                   AFMAN 10-2502 Vol 3, pp. 4-5
                    3.20.5.      JP 3-40 (8 JUL 2004)                              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp.11-12
                    3.20.6.      DODD 5240.01 (27 AUG 2007), pp. 2-4               AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.16
                    3.20.7.      National Military Strategy –                      AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.11-17
                                 CWMD (13 FEB 2006), p.21
                    3.20.8.                                                        AFPAM 14-210 (1 FEB 1998), p. 7
                    3.20.9.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-6                   AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp.26-27
                                                                                   AFMAN 10-2502 Vol 3, pp. 4-5
                    3.20.10.     JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-5                   AFMAN 10-2502 Vol 3, pp. 4-5
                                                                                   AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p.13
                    3.20.11.     National Military Strategy –                      AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.11-17
                                 CWMD (13 FEB 2006), p.21
                    3.20.12.                                                       AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), p.5.
                    3.20.13.                                                       AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp. 10-57
                    3.20.14.     JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-6                   AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp.26-27
                                                                                   AFMAN 10-2502 Vol 3, pp. 4-5
                    3.20.15.                                                       AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.11
                    3.20.16.                                                       AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.12
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                             103


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
               3.20.17.     Global Strike Joint Integrating Concept Version     AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 13
                            1.0, (10 JAN 2005) pp. 3-4                          AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp . 2,7
                            JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6,                   AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                                AF Strategic Plan 2006-2008, p. 3
                                                                                AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. I-1
               3.20.18.                                                         AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.12
               3.20.19.     JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), p. III-6                     AFDD 2-10 (21 MAR 2006), pp.26-27
                                                                                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.17
                                                                                AFMAN 10-2502 Vol 3, pp. 4-5
               3.20.20.                                                         AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p.17
               3.20.21.                                                         AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), pp. i, 28-37
               3.20.22.                                                         AFDD 2-5.2 (21 APR 1999), p. 35
               3.20.23.                                                         AFMAN 10-2502 Vol 3, pp. 92-118
               3.20.24.                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p.151
               3.20.25.                                                         AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp.14-17
               3.20.26.     USTRANSCOM/TCCC Memo, Policy for Patient            AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 47
                            Movement of Contaminated Contagious or              AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), p. 95
                            Potentially Exposed Casualties, 14 Mar 08           AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10; 168-169
                            JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000) , p. 1-10; 1-16-18
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006), Chap. VIII                    AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), p. IV-5; A-6
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFTTP 3-42.5 (1 NOV 2003), p. 23
                            STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), p. 24                    AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.20.27.                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p.150
               3.20.28.                                                         AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p.28
               3.20.29.                                                         AFDD 2-8 (1 JUN 2007), p.66
104                                                         AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category          Competency   National/DoD/Joint                          AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
 3.21. CBRN        3.21.1.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)               AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 5, 20
 Characteristics                JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-6,             AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 3, 54-57
                                DODD2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5             AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30, 31       AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure A      AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                            AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 46
                                                                            AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                            15
                                                                            AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 143-148, 219
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
                   3.21.2.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)               AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. vi,1, 32-33
                                JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-5,6, II-3      AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 5, 20
                                DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30, 31       AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002),Enclosure A       AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                            AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p.73
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                            15, 219
                                                                            AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 20-35,143-
                                                                            148, 219
                                                                            AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.13
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
                                                                            AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007), p. i
                   3.21.3.      JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-5,6, II-3      AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 5, 20
                                DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30, 31       AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 6, 7
                                                                            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2, 7
                                                                            AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                            AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                            15 , 219
                                                                            AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 13
                                                                            AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                            AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-4
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                   105


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                       AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
               3.21.4.      National Military Strategy –             AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 46
                            CWMD (13 FEB 2006), p.10
               3.21.5.      National Military Strategy –             AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p.73
                            CWMD (13 FEB 2006), p.26                 AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                     15, 219
                                                                     AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 20-35, 134-
                                                                     139, 143-148, 219
                                                                     AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.13
                                                                     AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                     AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
               3.21.6.                                               AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.73
                                                                     AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), p 205
                                                                     AFI 32-3001, (10 OCT 2007), p. 32
                                                                     AFTTP 3-2.32, VI-5,6 (Silver Flag)
                                                                     AFI 14-119 (15 AUG 2007), p. 13
               3.21.7.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)            AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 5, 20
                            JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-6,          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 3, 54-57
                            DODD2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5          AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                            DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30, 31    AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp 2,7
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure A   AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                                                                     AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p. 46
                                                                     AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                                     AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                     15
                                                                     AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 143-148, 219
                                                                     AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                     AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
               3.21.8.      National Military Strategy –             AFDD 2-1.2 (12 JUN 2007), p. 29
                            CWMD (13 Feb 2006), p. 23                AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 9,18,20,21,23,26,52
                            JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-4-6         AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                                                                     AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                     AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. I-3
               3.21.9.                                               AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 18, 31, 67
               3.21.10.                                              AFI 10-2502 Vol 3, pp.19, 45
               3.21.11.                                              AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 18, 21, 53
106                                                     AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category     Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
              3.21.12.                                                       AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 10, 11
 3.22. CBRN   3.22.1.      National Military Strategy –                      AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 54-55, 57
 Mitigation                CWMD (13 FEB 2006), p. 18,22                      AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                           JP 3-41 (2 OCT 2006), Chap. 1 Para 3a             AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                             AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                             AFI 10-245 (21 JUN 2002) , pp. 22-23
                                                                             AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), VI-3
                                                                             AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 137-142
              3.22.2.      National Military Strategy –                      AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 54-55, 57
                           CWMD (13 FEB 2006), p. 18,22                      AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                           JP 3-41 (2 OCT 2006), Chap. 1, Para 3a            AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2-7
                                                                             AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                                                                             AFI 10-245 (21 JUN 2002) , pp. 22-23
                                                                             AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), VI-3
                                                                             AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 137-142
              3.22.3.      29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)                     AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 53, 99, 133
                                                                             AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 150-152
              3.22.4.      AFJMAN 32-4003 (12 JAN 1971), p. 4                AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 115,195
                           AFJI 48-104 (24 JAN 1992), pp. 1-10
              3.22.5.                                                          AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), pp. 53, 99, 133
                                                                               AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp.150-152
              3.22.6.                                                          AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.48
                                                                               AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 60-62, 67-68, 173
              3.22.7.      AFJMAN 32-4003 (12 JAN 1971), p. 4                  AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 209-210
                           AFJI 48-104, (24 JAN 1992) , pp. 1-10               AFI 10-2604 (6 APR 2007), p.25
              3.22.8.                                                          AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), p. 42
              3.22.9.      JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 173-176
                           MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 164; 169
                           STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), p. 26                    AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                                                                               T.O. 00-20-01 (30 APR 2003)
                                                                               T.T. 00-110A-1 (31 MAR 05)
                                                                               T.O. 11C15-1-3 (28 FEB 2004)
                                                                               AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007), pp. 61-81
              3.22.10.     AFJMAN 44-151 (1 FEB 1996)                          AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000)
              3.22.11.                                                         AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.47
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                             107


 Category      Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                  AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
               3.22.12.     JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 173-176
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B              AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 164; 169
                            STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), p. 26                    AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                                                                                T.O. 00-20-01 (30 APR 2003
                                                                                T.T. 00-110A-1 (31 MAR 05)
                                                                                T.O. 11C15-1-3 (28 FEB 2004)
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007), pp. 61-81
               3.22.13.     JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. III-32                   AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001) pp.46, 61
                            JP 3-35 (7 MAY 2007), p. IV-6                       AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 46-47
                            JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFDD 2-6 (1 MAR 2006), pp. 73; 81
                            JP 4-06 (5 JUN 2006), Chap VIII                     AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 10; 168-169
                            MCM 0026-02, (26 APR 2002) Enclosure B              AFMAN 44-156 (I) (17 JUN 2000) , pp. 1-10; 1-16-18
                            AFJI 11-204 (11 NOV 1994)                           AFTTP(I) 3-2.37 (1 DEC 2001), pp. IV-5; A-6
                                                                                AFTTP(I) 3-2.33 (6 NOV 2007), Appendix I
                                                                                AFTTP 3-42.32 (20 APR 2004). pp. 14
                                                                                AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                                                                                AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007)
               3.22.14.                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p.43
               3.22.15.                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 16-17
               3.22.16.     29 CFR 1910.120(q) (7 JAN 04)                       AFDD 2-4.1 (9 NOV 2004), pp. 5, 20
                            JP 3-11 (11 JUL 2000), pp. I-6,                     AFDD 2-1.8 (26 JAN 2007), pp. 3, 50-51
                            DODD2060.02 (19 APR 2007), p. 5                     AFPD 10-8 (7 SEP 2006) , pp. 4, 6, 11
                            DODI 2000.18 (4 DEC 2002), pp. 30, 31               AFPD 10-26 (26 SEP 2007), pp. 2,7
                            MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure A              AFPD 10-25 (26 SEP 2007) pp. 2-7
                                                                                AFH 10-2502 (30 OCT 2001), p.46
                                                                                AFI 10-2501 (24 JAN 2007), p. 73
                                                                                AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 11, 12, 14,
                                                                                15
                                                                                AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 143-148, 219
                                                                                AFTTP(I) 3-2.42 (1 MAR 2003), p. B-5
                                                                                AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 24-43
               3.22.17.                                                         AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 138-152
               3.22.18.                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p. 53
               3.22.19.                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 72-78
               3.22.20.                                                         AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p. 156
108                                                 AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


 Category   Competency   National/DoD/Joint                                   AF Doctrine /Policy/AFI/AFMAN/AFTTP
            3.22.21.                                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 173-176
                                                                              AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p. 169
            3.22.22.     JP 3-17 (14 AUG 2002), pp. I-7; VII-10-13; VII 26-27AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 173-176
                         MCM 0026-02 (26 APR 2002), Enclosure B               AFMAN 10-2502, Vol 3, pp. 60-63
                         STANAG 2426 ( 8 AUG 2007), p. 26                     AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), pp. 164; 169
                         Formal Test Report for the Large-Frame Aircraft      AFTTP(I) 3-2.60 (1 APR 2006), Chap. VIII
                         Decontamination Demonstration, US Army Dugway T.O. 00-20-1 (30 APR 2003
                         Proving Ground, (Dec 04)                             T.T. 00-110A-1 (31 MAR 02)
                         Final Test Report for Polluted Lizard, US Army       T.O. 11C15-1-3 (28 FEB 2004)
                         Dugway Proving Ground, (Mar 07)                      AMC C-CBRN CONOPS (1 JUN 2007), pp. 61-81
                         Joint Program Executive Office Joint Requirements
                         Office Joint Strike Fighter Chem Bio Review, (2 Apr 08 )
            3.22.23.                                                          AFMAN 10-2602 (29 MAY 2003), p.172
            3.22.24.                                                          AFMAN 10-100 (1 JUN 2004), pp. 173-176
    AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                                                                 109


                                                                                   Attachment 5
           C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCIES FOR EMERGENCY-ESSENTIAL AND SENIOR LEADER CIVILIANS AND
                                           CONTRACTORS



Education Requirements                 Training Requirements
Education Proficiency                  Task Performance Levels                  Task Knowledge Levels
1 = Knowledge/Comprehension            1 = Extremely Limited                      a = Nomenclature
2 = Application                        2 = Partially Proficient                  b = Procedures
3 = Analysis/Synthesis                 3 = Competent                             c = Operating Principles
                                       4 = Highly Proficient                     d = Advanced Theory

                                       Subject Knowledge Levels
                                       A = Facts               C = Analysis
                                       B = Principles         D = Evaluation

CATEGORY           COMPETENCY          EDUCATION                                     TRAINING                              EXERCISE                         C-CBRN
(Chapter 3)                            REQUIREMENTS                                  REQUIREMENTS                          REQUIREMENTS                     OPERATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                            PILLAR
                                                                Senior Leader




                                                                                                           Senior Leader




                                                                                                                                            Senior Leader
                                             EE Education




                                                                                         EE Training




                                                                                                                              EE Exercise
                                                                Education




                                                                                                           Training




                                                                                                                                            Exercise




                                                                                                                                                                                CM
                                                                                                                                                                      AD
                                                                                                                                                                           PD
                                                                                                                                                                 CF
                                                                                                                                                            PP
                   3.2.2.
                   Comprehend
3.2. C-CBRN        Joint and Air
Doctrine, Policy   Force C-CBRN
and Guidance       doctrine and how
                   it relates to the
                   National Military                        1                                          B                                                         X
    110                                  AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                 Strategy




                 3.2.4.
                 Understand the
                 importance of
                 the CEMP 10-2
                 in executing CM
                 operations and
                 activities          1                                   X
                 3.2.13.
                 Understand the
                 Air Force
                 Incident
                 Management
                 System (AFIMS)
                 and how it
                 correlates to the
                 National
                 Response
                 Framework
                 (NRF) and
                 National Incident
                 Management
                 System (NIMS)       1       B                           X
                 3.3.3. Anticipate
                 potential
3.3. Adversary   adversary
CBRN             courses of action
Intelligence
                                     2       B                       X
   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                    111


              3.5.5.
              Understand
              homeland
              defense
              preparations as
              they relate to C-
              CBRN              1   2   A   A         X
              3.5.8.
              Demonstrate
              knowledge of
              operational plans
              designed for a
              CBRN
              environment                             X
              3.5.9.
              Understand that
              the Air Force
3.5. C-CBRN   will operate
Planning      based upon
              mission
              requirement in a
              CBRN
              environment       1   1                 X
              3.5.10.
              Understand the
              impact,
              importance and
              challenges of
              mortuary
              operations during
              the recovery,
              disposition,
              repatriation and
              interment of
              remains as part
              of CBRN CM            1       A             X
   112                                        AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


              operations




              3.5.25.
              Understand
              planning
              considerations
              for non-
              combatant
              evacuation
              operations
              (NEO) in a
              CBRN threat
              environment         1   1   A       A                           X
              3.5.32.
              Understand and
              conduct crisis
              planning                3           A                           X
              3.6.3.
              Understand civil
              and military
              reachback and
              support
              capabilities,
3.6. C-CBRN
              CONUS and
Reachback
              OCONUS,
              including those
              belonging to
              Allies, Coalition
              and host nation
              (HN)                    1           B                       X       X
   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                      113


              3.6.11.
              Understand the
              installation plan
              for the mass care
              of displaced
              personnel, to
              include food,
              shelter and
              hygiene                 1       A             X
              3.7.3.
              Understand the
              potential impact
              of C-CBRN
              operations on the
              mission                 1   A   B         X
              3.7.4.
              Understand the
              implications of
3.7. C-CBRN
              conducting
Preparation
              missions in a
              CBRN
              environment         1   1   A   B         X
              3.7.6.
              Understand the
              effects of
              contaminated
              aircraft on air
              operations              1   A   A             X
114                                   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


      3.7.9.
      Understand legal
      limitations and
      restrictions
      affecting C-
      CBRN
      operations and
      activities,
      including posse
      comitatus, ROE,
      RUF,
      Enforcement of
      Laws to Restore
      Public Order
      Act, and
      intelligence
      collection              1                                   X   X   X
      3.7.13.
      Understand how
      issues
      surrounding
      dependents,
      service animals,
      and pets may
      affect evacuation
      activities and
      operations              1           B                               X
      3.7.15.
      Understand the
      importance of
      developing
      personal/family
      CM plans            1   1   A       A                               X
   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                      115


              3.7.16.
              Understand the
              impact of CBRN
              CM operations
              upon current
              contractor-
              provided services   1       A                     X
              3.8.3.
              Understand
              command and
              control (C2) in
              all types of
              CBRN CM
              operations (i.e.,
              Joint, foreign,
              local, state and
              federal)            1       B                     X
              3.8.6.
3.8. C-CBRN   Demonstrate
Command and   interactions with
Control       higher
              headquarters and
              exhibit
              reachback
              capabilities                              X   X
              3.8.7.
              Demonstrate
              personnel
              accountability
              measures
              following a
              CBRN attack             B   B   X         X   X
   116                                          AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                3.8.12.
                Demonstrate the
                ability to plan,
                command,
                control and
                execute C-CBRN
                operations, and
                assess the impact
                to base
                operations                                                  X   X
                3.8.18. Apply
                ORM/decision
                tools to C-CBRN
                operations and
                activities                                        X                 X   X
                3.9.4.
                Understand the
                impact of public
                perception on
                military C-
                CBRN
                operations, and
                the impact of
                military activity
3.9. C-CBRN
                on public
Communication
                perception              1           B                                   X
                3.9.5. Recognize
                and understand
                appropriate
                sources of
                credible
                information
                following a
                CBRN attack         1   1   B                                           X
    AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                           117


                   3.11.2.
                   Understand the
3.11. C-CBRN       possible impact
Force Protection   of FPCONs on
                   C-CBRN
                   operations               1   A   A             X
                   3.12.2. Know,
                   identify,
                   understand and
                   respond to the
                   local and
                   national threat
                   conditions           1   1                         X
                   3.12.3.
                   Recognize
                   suspicious
                   activity             1                             X
                   3.12.6.
                   Recognize
3.12. C-CBRN
                   sources of health
Force Protection
                   risks in a CBRN
Planning
                   environment
                   (e.g., animals,
                   environmental
                   effects)             1   1   A   A                     X
                   3.12.7.
                   Understand that
                   an installation's
                   ability to conduct
                   C-CBRN
                   operations may
                   be limited or
                   degraded by a
                   range of factors                           X   X
   118                                          AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


               3.12.9.
               Understand
               factors affecting
               preparation of
               the airbase for a
               CBRN attack             1            B                           X
               3.13.1. Apply
               combat
               lifesaving skills
               in a CBRN-
               contaminated
3.13. C-CBRN
               environment         1   1                          X         X   X
Medical
               3.13.2.
Activities
               Demonstrate self
               aid and buddy
               care (SABC)
               basics for CBRN
               exposure                    2b       2b                              X
               3.14.2.
               Understand the
               need for
               collection of key
               health risk data
               for those
               individuals
3.14. C-CBRN   involved in C-
Medical        CBRN
Planning       operations          1   1                                        X
               3.14.3.
               Understand
               medical pre-
               treatment and
               post-exposure
               screening and
               treatment           1   1   A        A                           X
   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                            119


                3.14.5.
                Understand the
                prioritization of
                prophylaxis and
                therapeutics
                distribution and
                the Strategic
                National
                Stockpile process     1        B                      X
                3.14.7.
                Understand the
                roles and
                responsibilities
                of the public
                health
                emergency
                officer (PHEO)        1                               X
                3.14.8.
                Understand the
                potential long-
                term
                physiological
                effects of CBRN
                exposure              1        B                      X
                3.15.1. Protect
                individuals,
                equipment and
                assets from
                CBRN effects      1   1             X         X   X
3.15. C-CBRN
                3.15.2.
Equipment and
                Demonstrate
Procedures
                wear, inspection
                and maintenance
                of individual
                protective
                equipment/perso           2b   2b   X         X   X
120                                   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


      nal protective
      equipment
      (IPE/PPE)
      3.15.3. Know
      and implement
      MOPP
      operations         1   1   2b       2b                      X
      3.15.4. Know
      IPE/PPE
      requirements and
      limitations for
      CBRN
      operations         1   1   B        B                       X
      3.15.5. Plan for
      and perform
      Split-MOPP
      operations         2   2   2b       B                       X
      3.15.6.
      Demonstrate use
      of personal
      decontamination
      materials                  2b       2b                      X
      3.15.7. Pre-
      position
      appropriate
      detection
      material                                                    X
      3.15.8.
      Understand and
      employ
      contamination
      control
      techniques and
      procedures                 B        2b                      X
      3.15.9.
      Understand         1   1   A        A                       X
   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                      121


               principles of
               collective
               protection
               3.15.10.
               Understand
               facility
               hardening levels
               and the
               implications on
               MOPP levels        1   1   A   A             X
               3.16.1. Know
               Air Force, Joint
               and Coalition
               warning systems
               and reporting
               procedures         1   1   B   B             X
               3.16.2.
               Recognize Air
               Force
3.16. C-CBRN   standardized
Warning        attack warning
Systems        signals for
               CBRN medium
               and high threat
               areas              1   1   B   B             X
               3.16.3. React to
               Air Force, Joint
               and Coalition
               alarm conditions
               and protective
               postures           1   1   B   B             X
               3.17.1.
               Organize, train
3.17. C-CBRN
               and equip forces
Activities
               to operate in a
               CBRN-                  2                 X   X
122                                    AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


      contaminated
      environment


      3.17.3. Assess
      and react in a
      timely manner to
      actual and
      potential attacks                                  X         X   X
      3.17.4. Perform
      immediate and
      operational
      decontamination
      procedures                  B        2b            X         X   X
      3.17.7. Execute
      work-rest cycles
      and hydration
      standards           3   3   B        B                           X
      3.17.8.
      Understand and
      demonstrate
      hazard avoidance    1   1                                        X
      3.17.9. Perform
      pre-deployment
      activities                  A        A                           X
      3.17.11.
      Understand and
      demonstrate the
      transfer of
      equipment and
      personnel
      through
      contaminated
      environments                2b       2b                              X
   AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                        123


               3.17.12.
               Understand and
               demonstrate the
               use of
               contaminated
               assets to
               continue
               operations                      2b                         X
               3.17.15.
               Organize, align
               and employ
               resources against
               multiple CBRN
               threats                                            X
               3.17.16. Plan for
               NEO in a
               CBRN-
               contaminated
               environment         1   3   A   A                      X
               3.18.1.
               Understand the
               concept of ―Al l
               Airmen are
3.18. C-CBRN
               sensors‖            1   1   A   B          X
Operational
               3.18.2.
Spectrum
               Understand the
               C-CBRN
               operational
               spectrum                1       B          X   X   X   X   X
               3.19.1.
               Recognize
               reportable
3.19. C-CBRN
               scenarios           1   1   B   1a         X
Reporting
               3.19.2.
               Understand and
               execute reporting   1   1   B   2b         X
    124                                    AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                   procedures

                   3.19.3.
                   Understand post-
                   attack
                   reconnaissance
                   procedures          B       B                                       X
                   3.19.6.
                   Understand
                   responsibilities
                   for identifying,
                   marking and
                   reporting CBRN
                   materials, to
                   include
                   unexploded
                   ordnance            B       2b                                      X
                   3.20.2.
                   Demonstrate
                   knowledge of
                   Joint, combined,
                   and Coalition
                   theater
                   operations in a
                   CBRN-
3.20. C-CBRN
                   contaminated
Interoperability
                   environment                               X         X   X   X   X   X
                   3.20.5. Establish
                   operations in a
                   Joint, combined,
                   Coalition and
                   interagency C-
                   CBRN
                   community                                           X   X
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008              125


          3.20.10.
          Understand the
          roles and
          responsibilities
          of local, state,
          federal and HN
          agencies in
          relation to C-
          CBRN
          operations           1   B                 X
          3.20.12.
          Understand Air
          Force rules, roles
          and
          responsibilities
          with respect to
          DSCA                 1                         X
          3.20.13.
          Understand
          command
          authority and
          limitations
          governed by
          Titles 10, 32 and
          34 in using DoD
          resources in
          support of civil
          contingencies        1   B                     X
          3.20.15.
          Conduct intra-
          and inter-
          military,
          military-to-
          civilian, and
          interagency C-
          CBRN                               X   X
    126                                        AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                  operations and
                  activities



                  3.20.18.
                  Understand
                  interagency
                  cooperation
                  related to C-
                  CBRN homeland
                  defense                  1                               X
                  3.20.19.
                  Understand the
                  need for C-
                  CBRN support
                  agreements               1                               X
                  3.20.29.
                  Understand the
                  various
                  support/response
                  options the Air
                  Force provides in
                  DSCA                     2       A                               X
                  3.21.1. Know
                  and identify
                  typical CBRN
                  agents and
                  elements, their
3.21. CBRN        characteristics
Characteristics   and effects (i.e.,
                  persistency,
                  lethality,
                  toxicity,
                  symptoms,
                  signatures/identif   1   1                               X   X   X
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                           127


          ication of agent
          or precursor)
          upon humans
          and the
          environment, to
          include operating
          locations


          3.21.2. Know
          the risks of
          operating in
          CBRN
          environments at
          varying levels of
          contamination        1   1                          X
          3.21.5.
          Understand types
          of CBRN,
          CBRN-capable
          or TIC/TIM
          threats that could
          be encountered       1   1   A    A             X
          3.21.6.
          Recognize
          possible
          improvised
          explosive
          devices              1   1   2b   B   X             X
          3.21.7.
          Recognize
          behavioral and
          physical
          symptoms
          possibly
          associated with      1   1   B    B             X   X
   128                                       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


             CBRN exposure



             3.21.9.
             Understand
             indicators of a
             covert CBRN
             attack             1   1   A        A                       X   X
             3.22.1.
             Demonstrate the
             proper use of
             IPE/PPE while
             participating in
             C-CBRN
             operations                 2b       2b                              X
             3.22.3.
             Understand
             personnel
             contamination
3.22. CBRN   control
Mitigation   procedures         1   1   2b       3c                          X
             3.22.4.
             Understand
             restriction of
             movement
             procedures for a
             CBRN event         1   2                                        X
             3.22.5.
             Understand
             shelter in place
             principles and
             procedures         1   1   A        A                           X   X
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                     129


          3.22.6.
          Demonstrate the
          principles of
          personal,
          equipment and
          patient
          decontamination             B   B                     X
          3.22.7.
          Understand the
          principles and
          effects of
          restriction of
          movement
          (social
          distancing,
          quarantine and
          isolation)          1   1   A   A                     X
          3.22.8. Know
          CBRN detection
          capabilities,
          methods, and
          limitations         1   1   A   A         X       X
          3.22.9.
          Understand the
          implications of
          asset
          contamination in
          the course of C-
          CBRN
          operations          1   1   B   B             X
          3.22.10. Know
          CBRN agent
          prophylaxes and
          their limitations   1   1   A   A                 X
130                                    AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


      3.22.12.
      Understand
      decontamination
      levels (i.e.,
      immediate,
      operational,
      thorough,
      clearance) and
      limits               1   1   A       A                       X
      3.22.13.
      Understand the
      safe transport,
      handling and
      disposal of
      CBRN-
      contaminated
      materials and
      personnel            2   2                                   X
      3.22.14.
      Understand the
      Air Force cover
      policy for CBRN
      contamination
      avoidance            1   1   A       A                       X
      3.22.15.
      Understand the
      value of asset
      dispersal and
      cover                    2                                   X
      3.22.16.
      Understand the
      purpose of
      cordon               1   1                                   X
      3.22.18.
      Understand and
      participate in the   1   1   A       A                       X
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008              131


          installation
          detection
          network
          3.22.21. Apply
          proper
          procedures
          during the
          removal of
          contaminated
          barrier material
          to avoid cross-
          contamination of
          personnel or
          assets             2b   3b         X
132                                                       AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                                                      Attachment 6
      C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCIES FOR NON-EMERGENCY ESSENTIAL CIVILIANS AND CONTRACTORS


      Education Requirements         Training Requirements
      Education Proficiency          Task Performance Levels    Task Knowledge Levels
      1 = Knowledge/Comprehension    1 = Extremely Limited        a = Nomenclature
      2 = Application                2 = Partially Proficient    b = Procedures
      3 = Analysis/Synthesis         3 = Competent               c = Operating Principles
                                     4 = Highly Proficient       d = Advanced Theory

                                     Subject Knowledge Levels
                                     A = Facts               C = Analysis
                                     B = Principles          D = Evaluation

                                                                                            NEE
                                                                                            Education     NEE Training
      CATEGORY                       COMPETENCY                                             Requirement   Requirement
                                     3.5.25. Understand planning considerations for non-
      3.5 C-CBRN Planning            combatant evacuation operations (NEO) in a CBRN                           A
                                     threat environment
                                     3.7.5. Understand the "exchange zone" concept,
                                     which enables the transload of cargo and passengers
                                     from clean to contaminated airlift aircraft for             1
                                     continuation of aerial resupply of contaminated
      3.7 C-CBRN Preparation
                                     airfields
                                     3.7.13. Understand how issues surrounding
                                     dependents, service animals, and pets may affect            1             A
                                     evacuation activities and operations
      3.12 C-CBRN Force Protection
                                     3.12.3. Recognize suspicious activity                       1
      Planning
AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008                                                              133


     3.15. C-CBRN Equipment and     3.15.1. Protect individuals, equipment and assets
                                                                                                 A
     Procedures                     from CBRN effects
                                    3.16.2. Recognize Air Force standardized attack
                                    warning signals for CBRN medium and high threat          1   A
     3.16. C-CBRN Warning Systems   areas
                                    3.16.3. React to Air Force, Joint and Coalition alarm
                                                                                             1   A
                                    conditions and protective postures
                                    3.17.3. Assess and react in a timely manner to actual
                                                                                                 A
                                    and potential attacks
     3.17. C-CBRN Activities
                                    3.17.16. Plan for NEO in a CBRN-contaminated
                                                                                             1
                                    environment
     3.18. C-CBRN Operational       3.18.1. Understand the concept of ― All Airmen are
                                                                                             1   A
     Spectrum                       sensors‖
     3.19. C-CBRN Reporting         3.19.1. Recognize reportable scenarios                   1   A
                                    3.21.7. Recognize behavioral and physical
     3.21.CBRN Characteristics                                                               1   A
                                    symptoms possibly associated with CBRN exposure
                                    3.22.4.Understand restriction of movement
                                                                                             1
                                    procedures for a CBRN event
                                    3.22.5. Understand shelter in place principles and
                                                                                             1   A
                                    procedures
     3.22. CBRN Mitigation
                                    3.22.7. Understand the principles and effects of
                                    restriction of movement (social distancing,                  A
                                    quarantine and isolation)
                                    3.22.16. Understand the purpose of cordon                1
134                                          AFMAN10-2605 30 June 2008


                                          Attachment 7
                 C-CBRN ETE COMPETENCIES FOR DEPENDENTS (RECOMMENDED)


                                                    3.5.25. Understand and plan for non-combatant
      3.5 C-CBRN Planning                           evacuation operations (NEO) in a CBRN
                                                    environment
                                                    3.7.13. Understand how issues surrounding
                                                    dependents, service animals, and pets affect
      3.7 C-CBRN Preparation                        evacuation activities and operations
                                                    3.7.15. Understand the importance of
                                                    developing personal/family CM plans
                                                    3.16.3. Recognize and react to alarm
      3.16. C-CBRN Warning Systems                  conditions, protective postures, warning
                                                    signals, and actual and potential attacks
                                                    3.18.1. Understand the concept of ―   Everyone is
      3.18. C-CBRN Operational Spectrum
                                                    a sensor‖
                                                    3.19.1. Recognize and report suspicious
      3.19. C-CBRN Reporting
                                                    activity
                                                    3.21.7. Recognize behavioral and physical
      3.21.CBRN Characteristics
                                                    symptoms associated with CBRN exposure
                                                    3.22.5. Protect individuals from CBRN effects
                                                    (e.g., shelter in place)
                                                    3.22.7. Understand the principles, effects, and
      3.22. CBRN Mitigation
                                                    procedures of restriction of movement (e.g.,
                                                    social distancing, quarantine and isolation)
                                                    3.22.16. Understand the purpose of cordon
