BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                        AIR FORCE MANUAL 34-102
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              14 MARCH 2012
                                                   Incorporating Change 1, 28 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                         Services

                                                          DIRECTORY OF GOVERNMENT
                                                      QUARTERS AND DINING FACILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFSVA/SVFR                                                            Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                              (Brigadier General Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes:    AFMAN 34-255,                                                             Pages: 5
               1 January 1998


This manual lists the availability of government quarters and meals at all Air Force installations
designated as either a base or station, and other Air Force activities that have either government
quarters or meals. It also lists the availability of club meals at overseas locations and contains
Air Force procedures concerning meal availability for temporary duty (TDY) officers, enlisted,
and Department of Defense (DoD) civilians on days of travel, and when quartered off a US
installation. It is published under the Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR), Volume 1,
paragraph U4400-B, and Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Volume 2, paragraph C1055.

This manual applies to all Air Force personnel, including the Air Force Reserve Command and
Air National Guard (ANG). This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                             AFMAN34-102 14 MARCH 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change corrects the hyperlink: HQ AFSVA/SVFR to afsva.svf.distro@us.af.mil
throughout the document. It also corrects AFI 34-249, Food Service Management Program to
AFI 34-239. This will also update all office symbols AFSVA/SVFR to AFPC/FMNB.

Section A—Government Quarters and Meals

1. Government Quarters. Government quarters include all government-owned visiting officer
quarters, visiting airman quarters, and government-funded transient quarters, whether leased or
contract, that meet the minimum adequacy standards of AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging
Program.
2. Government Meals. Government meals listed on Defense Travel Management Office home
page are those available in an appropriated fund dining facility, and those available in US
Government contractor operated dining facilities when meals are furnished with or without
charge incident to an official assignment under a contract (refer to JFTR, Volume 1, paragraph
U4125-A3b, and paragraph UJ4125-A3g, Deductible Meals, and JTR Volume 2, paragraph
C4554). Meals in medical service facilities, flight kitchens, and alert, fire station, carry out, or
other satellite facilities are not included in the Defense Travel Management Office home page.
     2.1. The installation commander determines the availability of government meals for TDY
     travelers.
        2.1.1. Government meals should be considered available at all locations with a dining
        facility where nonappropriated fund (NAF), base exchange, or base restaurant food
        facilities are not available, adequate, or readily accessible to the place of duty.
        2.1.2. TDY travelers are authorized to use the dining facility at locations where the
        installation commander has determined government meals are available as provided in
        AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program.
        2.1.3. TDY DoD Civilians. IAW AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, civilians may
        not be required to eat in a military dining facility but may eat in dining facilities if they
        wish. Their per diem is reduced to the Proportional Per Diem (PPD) rate or the
        government rate if they consume meals in a government mess and they must claim the
        meals on their travel voucher.
     2.2. Government and club meals are considered not available on all traveling days and when
     on-installation government quarters are not available. This procedure applies to members of
     the Air Force Reserve and ANG Personnel performing active duty tours and when a member
     is lodged in government quarters not at the TDY location (includes consolidated lodging at
     separate installations, e.g., Ramstein and Vogelweh are separate installations but use a
     consolidated lodging activity).
     2.3. When the 2-meal concept is used, it applies to weekends and holidays. Although the
     dining facility opens only for two meal periods (brunch and dinner), three meals are deemed
     to be available for permanent party personnel. This includes members of the reserved
     components performing annual tours, since the brunch features an expanded menu served
     over the breakfast and lunch time frame. Note: For installations with the 2-meal concept,
AFMAN34-102 14 MARCH 2012                                                                            3


   the entries on the Defense Travel Management Office home page will indicate meal
   availability as only two meals being available on those days.

Section B—Applicability

3. Applicability to Exercises and Operations. Usually this manual will not apply to personnel
on scheduled exercises, maneuvers, and other such regular duty. The travel orders reflect
availability or non-availability of quarters and meals during these exercises, maneuvers, and
other duty functions. When the travel order does not address the availability of quarters, this
manual applies.
4. Installations Listed. All Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and ANG installations with
government quarters and government meals are found on the Defense Travel Management Office
home page at internet address: http://defensetravel.dod.mil/site/lodging.cfm.

Section C—Responsibilities

5. AFSVA/SVFR. AFSVA/SVFR maintains this publication and the accuracy of the tables
listed on the Defense Travel Management Office home page and makes changes, as required
upon receipt of change notices from installations. Changes are posted as needed to the Defense
Travel Management Office home page.
6. MAJCOM. MAJCOM/A1 reviews this manual and the Defense Travel Management Office
home page ensuring all installations in their command are listed and the entries are correct.
When an error is found, the installation must send an e-mail to afsva.svf.distro@us.af.mil or fax
the change to DSN 969-7118 or Commercial (210) 395-7118. Lastly, the installation must
provide a courtesy copy to their respective MAJCOM/A1S.
7. Installation and Station Actions:
   7.1. The commander of each Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and ANG installation and
   station, and all other Air Force installations with government quarters or meals, must ensure
   an entry is submitted for this manual and the tables on the Defense Travel Management
   Office home page.
   7.2. The Force Support Squadron commander, director, or a designated official at small
   installations without Force Support personnel:
       7.2.1. Is responsible for the accuracy of meals and lodging availability data for the base.
       7.2.2. Immediately reports any change in the installation’s data.
       7.2.3. Issues non-availability confirmation numbers to Air Force, Army, Navy, and
       Marine Corps travelers where facilities are not currently available.
8. Base Food Service Officer (FSO):
   8.1. Coordinates with the Force Support Squadron on all changes to this AFMAN making
   sure the changes are necessary and correct.
   8.2. Uses the data in this manual when computing travel entitlement.

Section D—Changes to the Table on the Defense Travel Management Office home page
 4                                                            AFMAN34-102 14 MARCH 2012


9. Changes and Updates. To change entries on the availability of facilities and installations,
send an email to afsva.svf.distro@us.af.mil. Send the change by e-mail or data fax when that
capability exists.
     9.1. Report dining or lodging facilities renovation dates to afsva.svf.distro@us.af.mil as
     soon as a firm closure or opening date is known.
     9.2. Using codes in Table 1, include the correct or new entry for each column in the same
     format as the attachments.
     9.3. Coordinate all changes with the FSO before release by the Force Support Squadron
     commander or director. Do not include temporary conditions (e.g., a change lasting less than
     three months) or statements if impractical.
10. Adding or Deleting Installations. To add or delete an installation from the continental
United States (CONUS) or outside continental United States (OCONUS) Directory of
Government Quarters and Dining Facilities on the Defense Travel Management Office home
page, the installation must email a request to the MAJCOM/A1S and
afsva.svf.distro@us.af.mil, in turn. The installation will submit the complete installation name
and entries for each column in the same format as listed in the CONUS or OCONUS Directory
of Government Quarters and Dining Facilities. When a change occurs at an installation and
government quarters or meals are no longer available for travelers, installations must issue a non-
availability confirmation number obtained from the lodging office for quarters and/or meals until
official changes to this publication are published. Official changes will apply retroactively to the
date when the quarters and or meals became unavailable.




                                              Darrell D. Jones
                                              Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              DCS, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
AFMAN34-102 14 MARCH 2012                                       5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Volume 1, 1 January 2009
Joint Travel Regulations, Volume 2, 1 June 2009
AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 1 September 1996
AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, 20 February 2004
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 11 November 2007
AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, 5 August 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instructions
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFS—Air Force Station
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
ARB—Air Reserve Base
CONUS—Continental United States
DoD—Department of Defense
FSO—Food Service Officer
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations
JTR—Joint Travel Regulations
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAS—Naval Air Station
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAF—Royal Air Force
SVF—Directorate of Financial Management and Comptroller
TDY—Temporary Duty
