BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                     AIR FORCE MANUAL 34-315
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              6 MARCH 2013

                                                                                      Services

                                                AIR FORCE NONAPPROPRIATED FUND
                                              (NAF) EMPLOYEES’401(K) SAVINGS PLAN



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AFPC/SVXHB                                                          Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                            (Brigadier General Eden J. Murrie)
                                                                                       Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFI34-315, 1 March 1996


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-3, Nonappropriated Funds
Personnel Management and Administration. It outlines procedures for administration of the Air
Force Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan. This manual applies to all
Air Force and Air Force Reserve civilian NAF employees. It does not apply to Army and Air
Force Exchange Service employees, the Air National Guard, or any other category of employee.

This manual may not be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route Air Force Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Requests for waivers are not authorized. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule. This manual requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, System of Records
Notice F065 AF SVA B, NAF Insurance and Employee Benefit System Files and F034 AF, Air
Force Services Agency, NAF Civilian Personnel Records, applies.
 2                                                       AFMAN34-315 6 MARCH 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This AFMAN has been changed from an Air Force Instruction (AFI) and must be completely
reviewed. Changes include: information provided at in-processing, waiting periods, and how
information flows into the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS).
AFMAN34-315 6 MARCH 2013                                                                        3



                                           Chapter 1

                                         OVERVIEW

1.1. NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan.
1.2. Refer to and follow the additional instructions contained in the 401(k) Savings Plan
Administration Manual- when using the guidance in this AFMAN.Use the two documents
together to properly administer the Air Force NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan.
1.3. Address all questions- regarding individual account information, as well as all requests for
forms and supplies, to the record keeper at the address and telephone number listed in the 401(k)
Savings Plan Administration Manual.
1.4. Direct all comments- regarding the management and administration of the NAF
Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan as well as requests for Summary Plan Descriptions (SPDs), to
the Air Force Personnel Center, Retirement Section (AFPC/SVXHB), 2261 Hughes Ave., Suite
156, Lackland AFB, Texas 78236-9852.
1.5. Maintaining Administrative Supplies. NAF Human Resources (NAF-HR) maintain a
stock of administrative supplies (such as the forms described in the 401(k) Savings Plan
Administration Manual) and SPDs.
1.6. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.6.1. AFPC/SVXHB provides- general oversight and management of the Air Force NAF
   Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan and publishes instructional and publicity materials.
   1.6.2. Air Force Personnel Center, Shared Service Center Payroll Section (AFPC/SVTEP)
   processes the collection of employee and employer contributions associated with Air Force
   NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan participation as instructed in Department of Defense
   (DoD) 7000.14-R Volume 13, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations
   (FMRs), and this manual.
   1.6.3. Force Support Squadron NAF-HR Sections perform installation-level administration
   as instructed in the 401(k) Savings Plan Administration Manual provided by the record
   keeper and this AFMAN.
   1.6.4. NAF-HR Responsibilities:
       1.6.4.1. Counsel employees about the Air Force NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan
       and its provisions in order to make an informed decision regarding employee
       participation.
       1.6.4.2. Advises newly hired regular or current employees converted from flexible to
       regular status of the Plan's benefits during in-processing or at the time of conversion and
       they will be automatically enrolled after 30 days of employment if they do not sign a
       waiver of participation form.
       1.6.4.3. Explains the Air Force NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan benefits outlined
       in the SPD.
4                                                              AFMAN34-315 6 MARCH 2013


       1.6.4.4. Informs former NAF employees with 30 days of regular service, and if rehired in
       a regular employment category, that they will be automatically enrolled in the Air Force
       NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan and has them sign a waiver of participation form if
       they choose not to participate.
    1.6.5. Payroll Office Responsibilities:
       1.6.5.1. Process Enrollments. The information from DCPDS flows to payroll system and
       interfaces into Air Force Services Financial Management System (AFSFMS).
       1.6.5.2. Process Changes. Use the Contribution and Investment Change Form provided
       by the NAF-HR to make changes to employees’ deduction amounts. Such changes may
       include an employee changing his or her contribution amount to zero. Changes flow
       from DCPDS to payroll system and interfaces into AFSFMS.
       1.6.5.3. Process Terminations. There is no need to process any special form when an
       employee terminates or goes on leave without pay. An employee’s contributions will
       continue as long as he or she is receiving any pay, excluding severance pay.
       1.6.5.4. Process Refunds or Deductions to Correct Errors.
       1.6.5.5. If the correction (refund or deduction) is for two pay periods or less, correct the
       error through the payroll system according to DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 13.
       1.6.5.6. If the correction is for more than two pay periods, notify AFPC/SVXHB
       immediately and provide an explanation of the problem and identification of the pay
       periods involved
AFMAN34-315 6 MARCH 2013                                                                      5


                                           Chapter 2

       DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLING NEW PARTICIPANTS

2.1. Determining Eligibility.
   2.1.1. To be eligible, an employee must be a Regular Air Force NAF employee (not an off-
   duty military employee) and have at least 30 days of regular Air Force NAF service and must
   be a United States (US) citizen, US National, or permanent resident alien of the US.
   2.1.2. Employees who have prior service with another DoD employer, or as an appropriated
   fund employee, contact AFPC/SVXHB for eligibility guidance.
2.2. Enrolling New Participants in the 401(k) Savings Plan.
   2.2.1. Eligible employees complete the Enrollment Form and Beneficiary Designation Form
   and indicate their contribution percentage and investment election.
       2.2.1.1. Non-participants must indicate their waiver of participation.
       2.2.1.2. Employees who do not decline participation in the plan after 30 days of regular
       service will be automatically enrolled in the Plan with a 1% employee contribution.
       Auto-enrolled participants may change or suspend their enrollment by submitting a
       Contribution Change Form to NAF-HR Section.
   2.2.2. Distribute a copy of the Enrollment Form and Beneficiary Designation Form to the
   employee, employee’s Official Personnel File (OPF), and if enrolling, the record keeper.
   2.2.3. Give participating employees a copy of the SPD.
   2.2.4. Process 401(k) election form in DCPDS if employee chooses to enroll. This form
   must be dated before the pay period starts to be effective for the following pay period
   provided the 30 day eligibility has been met.
2.3. Documenting Waivers of Enrollment. Employees who do not wish to enroll must
complete an Enrollment Form indicating such within the first 30 days of employment. Maintain
a copy of the Enrollment Form in the employee’s OPF and distribute a copy to the employee.
The NAF-HR will remind employees they can enroll at any later date as long as they remain in
an eligible category.
2.4. Processing Forms after Initial Enrollment. Once an employee has enrolled in the Air
Force NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan, he or she may make changes in his or her
contribution amount, beneficiary, etc. Instructions for making changes are in the 401(k) Savings
Plan Administration Manual. Process contribution changes in DCPDS. This form must be dated
before the pay period starts to be effective for the following pay period provided the 30 day
eligibility has been met.
 6                                                            AFMAN34-315 6 MARCH 2013


                                           Chapter 3

                                        PROCESSING

3.1. Processing Distributions Due to Termination, Retirement, or Death. Employees are
eligible to receive the vested portion of their account if they die, retire, or terminate their
employment. Complete the Termination Notification Form for termination, retirement and
death. If the employee is deceased, complete and forward the Termination Notification
Distribution Form along with a copy of the death certificate and a copy of the Beneficiary
Designation Form to AFPC/SVXHB. Employees are not eligible to receive a distribution from
their account if they change to an ineligible employment category. Instructions for completing
and processing this form are in the 401(k) Savings Plan Administration Manual. Distribute a
copy of the form to the employee/beneficiary, employee’s OPF, record keeper and
AFPC/SVXHB.
3.2. Processing Rollover Contributions into the Plan. Employees are eligible to roll 401(k)
funds from a previous employer’s qualified plan into the plan. If an employee wishes to make a
rollover contribution, the employee completes the “Rollover into the USAF NAF 401(k) Plan
from another Qualified Plan Form.” Instructions for completing and processing this form are in
the 401(k) Savings Plan Administration Manual. Distribute a copy of the form to the employee,
employee’s OPF, record keeper and AFPC/SVXHB.
3.3. Processing Restoration of Forfeitures for Rehired Employees. Former participants who
are rehired within 5 years are eligible to reinstate any forfeitures of employer matching
contributions by returning any distributions they received. If a rehired employee wishes to
restore his or her forfeitures, they complete the Restoration of Forefeitures Form; obtained from
the record keeper. Instructions for completing and processing this form are in the 401(k) Savings
Plan Administration Manual. Distribute a copy of the form to the employee, employee’s OPF,
record keeper, and AFPC/SVXHB.
3.4. Processing Employees Affected by the Portability of Benefits for Nonappropriated
Fund Employees Act of 1990 (Portability Act). If an employee affected by the Portability Act
elects to remain in the NAF Retirement Plan, he or she is also eligible to remain in the Air Force
NAF Employees’ 401(k) Savings Plan. Instructions for processing employees affected by the
Portability Act are found in the 401(k) Savings Plan Administration Manual.
3.5. Notifying Payroll of Actions. Ensure all forms that affect an employee’s payroll deduction
are processed in DCPDS. Forms include the Enrollment Form and Contribution Change Form,
which is obtained from the record keeper. If an employee’s hardship withdrawal request is
approved, follow the procedures for discontinuing 401(k) contributions for 6 months as
explained in the 401(k) Savings Plan Administration Manual.




                                             DARRELL D. JONES
                                             Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
AFMAN34-315 6 MARCH 2013                                                                 7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-3, Nonappropriated Funds Personnel Management and Administration, 19 July 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs), Volume
13
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPC/SVTEP—Air Force Personnel Center, Shared Service Center Payroll Section
AFPC/SVXHB—Air Force Personnel Center, Retirement Section
AFSFMS—Air Force Services Financial Management System
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
IAW—In Accordance With
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAF—HR —Nonappropriated Fund Human Resources
OPF—Official Personnel File
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SPD—Summary Plan Description
US—United States
