BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE MANUAL 31-125
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 22 APRIL 2014

                                                                                         Security

                                                  SECURITY FORCES IMPLEMENTATION
                                                 OF THE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
                                                                SAFETY ACT (LEOSA)



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFSFC/SFOP                                                             Certified by: AF/A7S
                                                                          (John A. Fedrigo, SES)
                                                                                        Pages: 10




This instruction implements Public Law 108-277 dated 22 July 2004, The Law Enforcement
Officers Safety Act of 2004 (LEOSA) as amended by Public Law 112-239 dated 2 January 2013,
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 and DoDI 5525.12, The Amended Law
Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004. Compliance with this instruction is mandatory and
applies to Department of the Air Force (DAF) military, civilian, Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG), military and civilian personnel from other United States
(U.S.) military branches assigned or attached to United States Air Force (USAF) units, contract
SF, and government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) and contractor-owned, contractor
operated (COCO) facilities. The terms "must," "shall" and "will" denote mandatory actions in
this instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’ s chain of
command (CoC). Any organization may supplement this instruction. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the USAF. Records Disposition: Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the USAF Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                              AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014


This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974, in accordance with System of Records Notice (F031 AF SP B and
F031     AF      SP     C).     The     PA      Systems    Notices     are     available     at:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf. The authorities to collect and/or maintain the
records prescribed in this instruction are Title 10 U.S.C., Section 8013, and Department of
Defense (DoD) Directive (DoDD) 7730.47, Defense Incident-Based Reporting System (DIBRS)
and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5505.17, Collection, Maintenance, Use and
Dissemination of Personally Identifiable Information and Law Enforcement Information by DoD
Law Enforcement Activities.


1. Implementation of the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act Improvements Act of 2010
(LEOSA Improvements Act). The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2013
expanded LEOSA application to those individuals that are or were granted the authority to make
apprehension under Article 7b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). This is federal
law. This AFMAN implements a requirement external to the Air Force; requests for waivers
must be processed through command channels to the publication OPR for consideration.
Therefore, all requirements in this guidance are rated Tier-0 (T-0). The individuals who have
apprehension authority and are identified as qualified law enforcement officers, active, retired or
separated with 10 or more years of aggregate service in a position as a qualified law enforcement
officer, may carry privately owned weapons (POW) concealed while off duty and outside the
boundary of the installation, IAW DoDI 5525.12, Implementation of the Law Enforcement
Officers Safety Act of 2004. This AFMAN will address LEOSA implementation for all
individuals granted apprehension authority under the UCMJ that are not identified as active,
retired or separated members of a defense criminal investigative organization (DCIO) as defined
in DoDI 5505.16. This instruction implements sections 926B and 926C of LEOSA.
     1.1. Section 926B. Notwithstanding any other provision of the law of any state or any
     political subdivision thereof, an individual who is a qualified law enforcement officer
     (QLEO) and who is granted the LEOSA identification credential indicating them as such,
     may carry a concealed firearm while off duty and off the installation. If identified by the
     USAF Security Forces as a QLEO by the issuing of a 926B LEOSA credential, LEOSA
     provides exemption from state laws prohibiting the carrying of concealed firearms.
        1.1.1. Qualified Police or Law Enforcement Officer. Individuals granted apprehension
        authority under Article 7b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) must meet
        the definition of qualified police or law enforcement officer requirements defined in
        DoDI 5525.12, Enclosure 3, in order to be issued a credential under LEOSA. In addition
        the individual must:
            1.1.1.1. Currently be authorized by the agency to carry a firearm.
            1.1.1.2. Not be the subject of any disciplinary action by the agency that could result
            in suspension or loss of police powers.
            1.1.1.3. Meet standards established by the agency which require the employee to
            regularly qualify on the use of a firearm of the same type of as the concealed firearm.
            1.1.1.4. Not be under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or hallucinatory
            drug or substance.
AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014                                                                    3


        1.1.1.5. Not be prohibited by Federal Law from receiving a firearm.
        1.1.1.6. Meet all Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) requirements
        identified in DoDI 5525.15. Security Forces 3P031 must obtain a 5-skill level; 31P
        must obtain the rank of First Lieutenant; DAF Officers must have received
        qualification training.
        1.1.1.7. Complete a probationary period of one year after achieving all POST
        standards. The probationary period is used to ensure the suitability of the member to
        carry concealed after achieving the minimum POST requirements listed in para
        1.1.1.6. NOTE: This period may be extended by the credential issuing authority on a
        case-by-case basis.
        1.1.1.8. Obtain a signed letter of recommendation for issuance of this qualification
        from current commanding officer indicating all requirements have been met as
        identified in paragraph 1.1.
     1.1.2. Authorization to carry a firearm.
        1.1.2.1. IAW with LEOSA, individuals must meet the standards established by the
        agency which requires the employee to regularly qualify on the use of a firearm of the
        same type as the concealed weapon that will be carried.
            1.1.2.1.1. Type of firearm is defined as: handgun (as defined in the Bureau of
            Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Publication 5300.4, Federal
            Firearms Regulations Reference Guide, page 7, para 29: The term "handgun"
            means (A) a firearm which has a short stock and is designed to be held and fired
            by the use of a single hand and (B) any combination of parts from which a firearm
            described in subparagraph (A) can be assembled.); semi-automatic pistol or
            revolver; shotgun; rifle; etc. This is not to be confused with “model” which
            defines the various weapons within the particular weapon type. USAF SF qualify
            with the M9 pistol; regardless, the type of firearm allowed for carry under 926B
            credentials will be a semi-automatic pistol or revolver only.
            1.1.2.1.2. At SF squadron level and below, authorized to carry a firearm will be
            defined as currently qualified on the M9 pistol and the individual being identified
            on the unit arming roster.
            1.1.2.1.3. Individuals who are placed on the “Do Not Arm” roster but still remain
            qualified, are not “authorized” to carry their primary duty weapon. These
            individuals will have their 926B credential suspended until authorization to bear a
            firearm for duty is returned. The individual will be notified of the suspension, in
            writing, when issued a Do Not Arm Letter in accordance with AFI 31-117.
            1.1.2.1.4. Individuals who meet all other definitions of a qualified law
            enforcement officer, still retain apprehension authority under Article 7b of the
            UCMJ, but are not currently qualified on the M9 pistol or are not required to
            regularly qualify due to duty position (i.e., Military and DAF civilian Law
            Enforcement staff personnel above the squadron level, IAW AFI 36-2226), will
            complete the USAF SF handgun qualification course conducted by a state
            certified civilian firearms instructor using the member’s privately owned firearm
4                                                               AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014


              and personally procured ammunition. This training must be accomplished during
              non-duty time. The lesson plans for the course of fire can be obtained on the
              USAF Security Forces Website: http://afsf.lackland.af.mil. Once this
              qualification course has been completed successfully, these individuals will be
              considered authorized to carry a concealed firearm IAW LEOSA laws.
           1.1.2.2. In accordance with LEOSA, the term “firearm” does not include any
           machine gun as defined in section 5845 of the National Firearms Act, any firearm
           silencer as defined in section 921 of Title 18 and any destructive device as defined in
           section 921 of Title 18.
       1.1.3. For the 926B LEOSA credential to be considered valid, the individual must not be
       the subject of any disciplinary action, not be under the influence of alcohol or any other
       intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance, be currently authorized to carry a firearm
       and not be prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm as indicated in the
       Lautenberg Amendment to the Gun Control Act of 1968.
    1.2. Section 926C. Notwithstanding any other provision of the law of any state or any
    political subdivision thereof, an individual who is a qualified retired or separated law
    enforcement officer and who is carrying the LEOSA identification may carry a concealed
    firearm. If identified by the USAF Security Forces as a retired or separated QLEO by the
    issuing of a 926C LEOSA credential, LEOSA provides exemption from state laws
    prohibiting the carrying of concealed firearms.
       1.2.1. Qualified Retired Police or Law Enforcement Officer. Retired Air Police, Security
       Police, Security Forces, Department of the Air Force Police and personnel separated with
       10 years of aggregate service as a QLEO, in one of the aforementioned positions, may
       apply for USAF LEOSA Credentials under Section 926C. Individuals must meet the
       requirements of a qualified retired police or law enforcement officer as defined in DoDI
       5525.12, Enclosure 3.
       1.2.2. Individuals applicable to Section 926C must carry their USAF LEOSA credential
       and, IAW with LEOSA, a state firearm certification, from the state in which the
       individual resides, that indicates within the last 12 months, the individual has met
       standards for training and qualification to carry a firearm for active law enforcement
       officers in that state for the same type of weapon as the concealed firearm. This
       documentation must be signed by a certified firearms instructor for that state.
           1.2.2.1. IAW S. 1132: Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act Improvements Act of
           2010, if the State has not established LEO firearms qualification standards, the
           instructor will certify the officer has completed the USAF SF handgun qualification
           course conducted by a state certified civilian firearms instructor using the member’s
           privately owned firearm and personally procured ammunition. This documentation
           must be signed by a certified firearms instructor for that state.
           1.2.2.2. Certified Firearms Instructor. A certified firearms instructor is defined as a
           person certified by the National Rifle Association, the American Association of
           Certified Firearms Instructors or an instructor utilized by a police department who is
           qualified/certified to conduct firearms qualification evaluations for active duty police
AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014                                                                      5


          or law enforcement officers within the state in which the qualified retired/separated
          member resides.
          1.2.2.3. The training will be at the individual’s own expense and is not the
          responsibility of the agency.
       1.2.3. For the 926C LEOSA credential to be considered valid, the individual must have
       retired/separated in good standing from service as a QLEO with the USAF, not be under
       the influence of alcohol or any other intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance, be
       currently authorized to carry a firearm and not be prohibited by Federal law from
       receiving a firearm.
       1.2.4. In order to maintain the LEOSA credential, a retired or separated QLEO must
       remain in good standing. If conditions exist that prevent a retired or separated QLEO
       from purchasing, possessing, or carrying a firearm, the AFSFC must revoke or recall the
       credential, upon learning of the member’s failure to maintain prescribed standards, until
       conditions warrant re-instatement. At the request of the AFSFC or issuing agency, a
       retired/separated QLEO must surrender the credential to the appropriate authority.
       1.2.5. In accordance with LEOSA Act, 926C LEOSA credentials must be issued by the
       agency (USAF) from which the individual retired/separated service as a QLEO. For the
       purposes of LEOSA, the Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC) will act on behalf of
       the USAF as the agency for all Air Police, Security Police, Security Forces (Active Duty,
       ANG, AF Reserve) and Department of the Air Force Police.
2. Credentials. Security Forces and DAF police officers on active duty status, Air National
Guard and Air Force Reserve Security Forces who meet all requirements defined in DoDI
5525.12 and paragraph 1.1. of this publication will be issued an AF Form 688D, USAF LEOSA
926B Credential. Retirees and personnel separated with 10 years of aggregate service as a QLEO
in the Air Police, Security Police, Security Forces or Department of the Air Force Police who
meet all requirements defined in DoDI 5525.12 and paragraph 1.2.1. of this publication, will be
issued an AF Form 688E, USAF LEOSA 926C Credential.
   2.1. Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center will be considered “the agency” and will
   be the issuing authority for USAF SF LEOSA Credentials to applicable personnel who meet
   all of the requirements listed in this AFMAN and DoDI 5525.15. The HQ AFSFC/CC will be
   considered the agency head and will sign issued credentials.
       2.1.1. Credentials will be issued by a contracted source, utilizing an interface with the
       Security Forces Information Management System (SFMIS). This will access the
       centralized database that tracks all LEOSA credentials that have been issued as required
       by DoDI 5525.12, Enclosure 3.
          2.1.1.1. When issuing the credential, brief the QLEO on the criteria for receiving the
          credential and emphasize that the credential does not grant any authority to act on the
          agency’s behalf or to exercise any law enforcement authority. Also brief the QLEO
          that for the credential to be valid he or she shall not carry a firearm while under the
          influence of alcohol or any other intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
6                                                                AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014


       2.1.2. Credentials will be photographic identification for qualified law enforcement
       officers indicating the individual meets all the requirements for a qualified law
       enforcement officer in accordance with DoDI 5525.12.
       2.1.3. Request for USAF LEOSA Credential will be made through a secure, electronic,
       web based application process. The link for this process can be located on the USAF
       Security Forces Website: http://afsf.lackland.af.mil. Applicants must submit the
       following documentation, electronically, on line with the electronic application:
           2.1.3.1. Electronic copy of fingerprints for the purposes of an NCIC background
           check.
           2.1.3.2. Medical declaration of physical competency may be required for individuals
           who are medically separated due to a service related disability. This documentation
           must be obtained from the applicant’s primary care physician certifying the individual
           is not currently or previously under a physician’s care for conditions that prohibit the
           carrying of a firearm under federal statutes.
           2.1.3.3. Electronic passport type photograph as defined by the Department of State
           for all U.S. passports.
           2.1.3.4. Copy of a state driver’s license or state issued identification card.
           2.1.3.5. 926B applicants. A Letter of recommendation for issuance of the credential
           from commanding officer as specified in paragraph 1.1.1.3.
           2.1.3.6. 926C applicants. DD Form 214 (member copy 4) or NGB 22.
               2.1.3.6.1. These documents must show that upon retirement or separation the
               member had statutory powers of arrest or apprehension under section 807(b) of
               Title 10, United States Code (Article 7(b), of the Uniform Code of Military
               Justice).
    2.2. The credential will:
       2.2.1. Include the law enforcement officer’s full name and an identification number
       assigned by the issuing agency, date of QLEO Certification and retirement/separation
       dates if applicable.
       2.2.2. Contain a current photograph of the qualified law enforcement officer. The
       credential will prominently display the words “DoD Police or Law Enforcement Officer
       (Active/Retired/Separated)”.
       2.2.3. Contain the following statements:
           2.2.3.1. 926B credential: “The individual pictured above is on active duty service
           with the United States Air Force as a qualified law enforcement officer and on the
           date issued has met the requirements of section 926B of Title 18, United States
           Code.”
           2.2.3.2. 926C credential: “The individual pictured above separated in good standing
           from service with the United States Air Force as a qualified law enforcement officer
           and on the date issued has met the requirements of section 926C of Title 18, United
           States Code.”
AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014                                                                        7


          2.2.3.3. On the back of both credentials:
             2.2.3.3.1. “This credential does not grant the bearer any authority to act on the
             agency’s behalf or to exercise any law enforcement authority.”
             2.2.3.3.2. For 926C credentials: “In order for the named individual to carry a
             concealed weapon, pursuant to             18 USC 926C, this credential must be
             accompanied by a current (within the most recent 12 months) firearms
             qualification certification from the individual’s State of residence. If the State has
             not established LEO firearms qualification standards, the instructor will certify
             the officer has completed the USAF SF handgun qualification course conducted
             by a state certified civilian firearms instructor using the member’s privately
             owned firearm and personally procured ammunition. The named individual shall
             not carry a firearm while under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or
             hallucinatory drug or substance, and shall not be prohibited by Federal law from
             receiving a firearm.”
   2.3. In addition to the AF Form 688D or E, personnel will be required to carry proof of
   current firearm training while carrying a concealed firearm under LEOSA.
      2.3.1. Section 926B, Security Forces and DAF police will carry the AF Form 522 or
      proof of state certified qualification, indicating their handgun weapons qualification
      expiration date.
      2.3.2. Section 926C, retired/separated personnel will carry certification or other
      documentation as approved/issued by the state in which the individual resides, or proofs
      of training as indicated in paragraph 1.2.2.
   2.4. Each LEOSA credential will be issued and valid for a 5 year period. Members will be
   required to renew their credential after this period of time.
   2.5. Each LEOSA credential will have an issue date and be signed by the QLEO and the HQ
   AFSFC/CC.
   2.6. Suspension and Revocation of USAF LEOSA Credentials.
      2.6.1. Suspension. Those individuals receiving credentials under Section 926B will have
      the credential suspended when placed on a Do Not Arm (DNA) roster by the local
      Defense Force Commander.
      2.6.2. Revocation. Any individual issued a USAF LEOSA credential found to be
      prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm, will have their credential revoked
      IAW DoDI 5525.12.
3. Special Considerations.
   3.1. SF in special duties and SF who cross train into non-Qualified Police or Law
   Enforcement Officer positions may apply for an AF Form 688E, USAF LEOSA 926C
   Credential, if they have attained 10 years aggregate TAFMS as a Qualified Law Enforcement
   Officer as outlined in paragraph 1.1.
   3.2. All personnel receiving a USAF SF LEOSA credential who choose to carry a concealed
   weapon should obtain concealed carry or self-defense insurance with civil and criminal
   defense coverage in the event they are involved in an off-duty LEOSA Use of Force incident.
8                                                                AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014


    The Air Force has no liability and will not provide legal defense if an individual is involved
    in an off-duty LEOSA Use of Force incident. The USAF role is solely to determine that all
    requirements to carry under LEOSA are met; any action taken by the individual is their
    personal responsibility.
    3.3. Personnel should also consider carrying a “grand jury kit.” A recommended grand jury
    kit consists of the AF Form 688D or E, weapons qualification documentation, driver’s
    license or state issued identification card, proof of ownership for the weapon carried, copies
    of DoDI 5525.15, this AFMAN and the LEOSA Act legislation.
    3.4. This instruction does not:
       3.4.1. Create any rights, privileges, or benefits, substantive or procedural, enforceable by
       any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or other entities, its officers
       or any other persons.
       3.4.2. Limit the authority of a military commander, as outlined in section 930 of
       Reference (d), section 797 of Title 50, U.S.C., and DoD Instruction 5200.08 (References
       (f) and (g)), to deny entry to individuals or items based upon current security or force
       protection conditions. NOTE: Installation commanders should outline local LEOSA
       requirements in their Integrated Defense Plan for LEOSA credentialed personnel
       who transition on and off the installation.
       3.4.3. Limit the laws of any state that permits private persons or entities to prohibit or
       restrict the possession of concealed firearms on their property; prohibit or restrict the
       possession of firearms on any State or local government property, installation, building,
       base or park.
       3.4.4. Confer upon any retired or separated law enforcement officer any rights or
       privileges accorded to an active duty law enforcement officer. It only delineates the
       qualifications a separated law enforcement officer must meet to carry concealed firearms.
       3.4.5. Affect the requirement of any DoD law enforcement agency for its law
       enforcement officers to carry a firearm at all times and does not change any DoD
       Component’s regulations or procedures with respect to on-duty law enforcement officers.




                                              JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014                                                                 9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDD 7730.47, Defense Incident-Based Reporting System (DIBRS) and Department of Defense
Instruction
DoDI 5505.17, Collection, Maintenance, Use and Dissemination of Personally Identifiable
Information and Law Enforcement Information by DoD Law Enforcement Activities
DoDI 5525.12, The Amended Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSFC—Air Force Security Forces Center
ANG—Air National Guard
ATF—Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCIO—Defense Criminal Investigative Organization
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
LEOSA—Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act
SF—Security Forces
NCIC—National Crime Information Center
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
POST—Peace Officer Standards and Training
POW—Privately Owned Weapon
QLEO—Qualified Law Enforcement Officer
 10                                                   AFMAN31-125 22 APRIL 2014


SFMIS—Security Forces Information Management System
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TAFMS—Total Active Federal Military Service
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UoF—Use of Force
USAF—United States Air Force
