BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      AIR FORCE MANUAL 31-229
AIR COMBAT COMMAND


                                                                  AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                          SUPPLEMENT
                                                                         12 MARCH 2009




                                                                                      Security

                                                   USAF WEAPONS HANDLING MANUAL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR:HQ ACC/A7STT               Certified by: HQ ACC/A7 (Brig Gen Timothy A. Byers)
Supersedes:AFMAN31-229_ACCSUP1,                                         Pages: 15
13 July 2004

AFMAN 31-229, 12 May 2004, is supplemented as follows. This document establishes Air
Combat Command (ACC) standardized weapons handling, loading and clearing procedures. It
specifies information and use requirements for AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt; AF
Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt; and AF Form 1473, Gun Equipment Room Inventory.
This publication applies to the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units and
personnel. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed processes IAW AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
available from the Air Force Portal link. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send
comments and recommended improvements for this publication on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to HQ ACC/A7STT, 220
Sweeney Boulevard, Suite 112, Langley AFB VA 23665-2796.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed: Standardized
handling procedures for the M203 grenade launcher equipped with a quick release, M2 machine
gun, MK19 grenade machine gun, and M107 long range sniper rifle were added as attachments.
Arming authorization procedures for SF units and prescribed forms have been changed.
2                                                        AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009

1.1. Designating Armorer and Clearing Barrel Attendant. The noncommissioned officer in
charge (NCOIC) of the armory will ensure the memorandum appointing armorers is on file
within 24 hour manned armories/arms rooms or filed within the office of primary responsibility
for armories/arms rooms that are not manned 24 hours. Supervisors will document training for
all Airmen authorized to perform armory/arms room and clearing barrel duties on AF Form
1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or AF Form 797, Job Qualification
Standard Continuation/Command JQS.

1.2. Weapons Handling Areas. Security Forces (SF) commanders and the installation safety
office will designate clearing areas during field deployments or post relief, when a clearing
barrel is not available. Prior to approving the clearing areas for use an ORM must be conducted.
Gun crews will only live load and clear M2 machine guns and MK19 grenade machine guns in
the designated clearing area(s). Due to the maximum range and destructive capabilities of these
weapons clearing barrels will not be used. The designated clearing area will be open areas,
where in the event a round is discharged, the impact of the round(s) will cause minimal damage
or chances of injury.

1.4.2. Loading and clearing of weapons with live munitions is not authorized inside the
armory/arms room secured area. All live munitions loading and clearing will be conducted at
approved locations outside the secured armory/arms room.

1.4.3. Due to size and weight, this requirement does not apply to the M2 or MK19.

1.4.5. Within ACC use attachments 2 through 19.

1.4.6. This accounting will be conducted on an AF Form 1473, Gun Equipment Room Inventory,
or other locally approved document. The AF Form 1473 must be signed and dated by both the
on and off going armorers during shift changes in 24 hour manned armories/arms rooms and
during each opening/closing of armories/arms rooms that are not manned 24 hours.

2.1. Small Arms Hand Receipt. All weapons qualifications expire the last day of the
appropriate month, expiration dates may be shown as month and year. An example would be
“Dec 09.”

2.2. Temporary Issue Receipt. Required information is listed in paragraph 2 above.

2.3. Arming Authorization. As a minimum, SF commanders will ensure they sign their units
updated authorizations monthly. Additions and deletions to the authorization throughout the
month will be in the form of a signed memorandum from the commander. These changes will be
incorporated into the next month’s authorization. Armorers will ensure prior to issuing weapons,
they verify the member is authorized on the commander’s signed authorization listing.

2.3.1. The commander will appoint, by name, authentication officials from each flight. Armorers
will not be authenticating officials. Each authenticating official will sign the memorandum of
appointment and the memorandum will be posted at armories/arms rooms where weapons will be
drawn. All AF Forms 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt, will bear the printed/typed name and
AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009                                                                      3

signature of the authenticating official. This will aid in verifying authorization. Prior to signing
the AF Form 629, the authenticating official must verify weapons qualification shown on an AF
Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data, satisfactory completion/currency of annual
Use of Force (UoF) training, annual weapons safety for SF members, and DD Form 2760,
Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition, was completed within the last year. The
expiration date will reflect whichever item expires first. An example would be an individual’s
M9 training expires Dec 09, their weapon safety expires in Oct 09 and their UoF training expires
in Nov 09, the AF Form 629 would show the expiration to be Oct 09. Prior to issuing weapons,
the armorer will verify the member is authorized on the commander’s authorization listing, the
AF Form 629 is current and correctly filled out, and the person is not on the “Do Not Arm List.”

2.3.2. Armorers will ensure weapons arming discrepancies found on the duty roster are brought
to the attention of the requesting official for the flight prior to issuing weapons. The requesting
official may make pen and ink changes to the duty roster to correct the discrepancies. An
example would be an individual is shown to be issued an M9 pistol, but they are not current with
the weapon. The requesting official may change the weapon to another weapon once they have
verified the person is authorized IAW para 2.3.1. above.

3. Clearing Barrels. Armory NCOIC or section safety representative will ensure annual
serviceability inspections are shown on the clearing barrel using a DD Form 1574, Serviceable
Tag-Materiel, similar to gas mask inspection procedures.

3.3. Written Procedures. Only the clearing barrel official will use hand held clearing
procedures in less permanent clearing areas.

3.4. Arms Room Issue/Turn-in-Barrel. Loading and clearing of weapons with live munitions
is not authorized inside the armory/arms room secured area. All live munitions loading and
clearing will be conducted at approved locations outside the secured armory/arms room.

4. Blank Ammunition and Exercise Safety. Personnel must be qualified with the type of
weapon when using dye-marking cartridges.

4.1. Blank Ammunition. The responsible officers or NCOs will be appointed in writing by the
unit commander.

4.2.12. (Added) Ensure all physical security requirements outlined in AFI 31-101, The Air Force
Installation Security Program, are met.

6.2. Forms Adopted.
AF Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data;
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
AF Form 1473, Gun Equipment Room Inventory;
DD Form 1574, Serviceable Tag-Materiel;
DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition.
4                                                           AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009


References
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 1 March 2003
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual, 12 May 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC--Air Combat Command
AF--Air Force
Dec--December
IAW--In Accordance With
NCO--Noncommissioned Officer
Oct--October
ORM--Operational Risk Management
Nov--November
SF--Security Forces
UoF--Use of Force

A4.1. NOTE: The armorer will ensure all optics, pointers, and illuminators attached to the rifle
are operational prior to issuing.

A4.4.1. Ensure the magazine has been removed from the magazine well.

A4.4.4. The armorer will ensure all optics, pointers, and illuminators attached to the rifle are
turned off.

A7.1. Issue. When the M203 is equipped with a quick release and will be attached to an M4
carbine, the armorer will clear and issue each weapon separately. The person bearing armed will
first clear the M4 at the clearing barrel with a clearing barrel official. Once the M4 is clear, the
M203 will be mounted and cleared.

A7.2.5. The grenade launcher (GL) will not be loaded (40mm round insert into barrel) unless the
use of deadly force is warranted. If the grenade launcher must be loaded, under no
circumstances will it be loaded at a clearing barrel. It will be loaded outside of facilities/vehicles
and the muzzle of the weapon will be pointed in a safe direction.

A7.3. Unloading and Clearing. Posting supervisors must verify a round is not loaded in the
M203 immediately upon relief from post or duty location. In cases where a posting supervisor is
not present, the relieving person will verify a round is not loaded in the M203. This will be
accomplished by pointing the GL in safe direction and ensuring the M203 is in the “Safe”
position. Place one hand under the breach of the GL and open the barrel. Visually inspect the
barrel to ensure a round is not present.
AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009                                                                    5



A7.4.7. (Added) If weapons are stored with quadrant sights attached in M12 racks, the sights
must be set between 300 and 400 meters. If stored in M11 racks, the sights must be set between
175 and 200 meters. If the GL has a PSQ18 Day-Night Sight attached the armorer will ensure
the power is turned off.

A9.3. Loading. ACC units with M60s will use half-load procedures for daily posting. The
weapon will not be full-loaded (ammo inserted, bolt to the rear, and cover closed) unless the use
of deadly force is warranted.

A10.4. Loading. ACC units will use half-load procedures for daily posting. The weapon will
not be full-loaded (ammo inserted, bolt to the rear, and cover closed) unless the use of deadly
force is warranted.

A10.9.4. The armorer will ensure all optics, pointers, and illuminators attached to the MG are
turned off.

A11.4. Loading. ACC units will use half-load procedures for daily posting. The weapon will
not be full-loaded (ammo inserted, bolt to the rear, and cover closed) unless the use of deadly
force is warranted.

A11.5.5. Due to reliability issues, ACC units will use 30-round magazines in situations only
when linked ammunition is unavailable.

A11.9.4. The armorer will ensure all optics, pointers, and illuminators attached to the AR are
turned off.


                                     JOHN D. W. CORLEY, General, USAF
                                     Commander
6                                                           AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009


                                     Attachment 17 (Added)

A17.1. (Added) General Information. The M2 is a crew-served heavy machine gun (HMG).
It is a heavy barrel, air-cooled, recoil-operated machine gun, capable of firing single shot or full
automatic, and uses a disintegrating metallic link belt feed system. The M2 is to be posted with
two barrels and a set of timing and head space gages.
A17.2. (Added) Issue. Due to the size and weight of the M2 and equipment, the person being
armed should assist the armorer when preparing the M2 for issue. The armorer must use the
following procedures:
A17.2.1. (Added) Remove the M2 and barrels from its storage rack or container and proceed to
the issue-point clearing area.
A17.2.2. (Added) Place the weapon on a clean, hard surface, if equipped place the safety or
trigger block on “Safe” (S), and open the cover.
A17.2.3. (Added) Verify no ammunition is present in the feed area (trunnion block), receiver, T-
slot (bolt) and chambers of both barrels.
A17.2.4. (Added) Close the cover and issue the M2, barrels and gage set to the person being
armed.
A17.3. (Added) Post-Issue Clearing. The person being armed must immediately proceed to
the commander designated clearing zone with the M2 and equipment. They then must mount,
assemble and clear the weapon as follows:
A17.3.1. (Added) If equipped, place the safety or trigger block on “Safe.”
A17.3.2. (Added) The gunner will ensure the bolt latch release lock is in the off position. They
will pull the retracting slide handle locking the bolt to the rear.
A17.3.3. (Added) The gunner will open the cover and inspect the T-slot.
A17.3.4. (Added) The gunner presses the bolt latch release and rides the bolt forward till barrel
locking spring lug is aligned with 3/8 in. hole on right side of receiver.
A17.3.5. (Added) The assistant gunner will inspect chamber, insert and tighten barrel to the M2
receiver.
A17.3.6. (Added) The gunner and assistant gunner will jointly adjust headspace and timing IAW
the applicable Operators Manual.
A17.3.7. (Added) Once headspace and timing are correct the gunner will close the cover. The
assistant gunner will attach the ammunition can hanger, can of ammunition, weather cover (if
needed due to conditions) and other accessories as required by the mission being performed.
A17.4. (Added) Half-Loading Procedures. ACC units will not half-load the M2 for normal
posting, unless the use of deadly force is warranted. Prior to loading the M2 it must first be
cleared. If the person loading the M2, is the same person who cleared the M2 upon issue, the
clearing process does not have to be repeated. If the person loading the M2 did not originally
clear the M2, the clearing process must be accomplished IAW Para A17.3. While the M2 is
capable of single shot and automatic modes of fire, it will be employed in the automatic mode for
daily posting. When the half-load is authorized the following procedures will be used:
AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009                                                                      7

A17.4.1. (Added) Once the weapon has been cleared the gunner will depress bolt latch release
and lock down by turning the bolt latch release lock to the left. Ensure that bolt latch release is
held completely down with no movement than open the top cover for loading.
A17.4.2. (Added) The assistant gunner will open the ammunition can and draw the double loop
end of the belt into the feedway until first round is held by belt holding pawls. Close the cover.
A17.4.3. (Added) Pull retracting slide handle rearward, retracting the bolt all the way to the rear.
Release the handle. The M2 is now in the half-load configuration. Do not move the safety, if
equipped, to the “Fire” (F) position unless deadly force is required.

A17.5. (Added) Half-Loaded Clearing Procedures. Pointing the M2 into a commander
designated predetermined clearing zone, the M2 crew will perform the following:
A17.5.1. (Added) The gunner ensures the bolt latch release lock is off or safety, if equipped, is
on “Safe.” They open the cover and remove ammunition from the feed area (trunnion block).
A17.5.2. (Added) The gunner ensures and pulls the retracting slide handle to the rear and
inspects T-slot and chamber for ammo.
A17.5.3. (Added) The gunner presses the bolt latch release, rides the bolt forward, and closes
the cover. The weapon is now clear and safe to transport for storage.
A17.6. (Added) Full-Load Procedures. ACC units will not full-load the M2 for normal
posting, unless the use of deadly force is warranted. Prior to loading the M2 it must first be
cleared. If the person loading the M2, is the same person who cleared the M2 upon issue, the
clearing process does not have to be repeated. If the person loading the M2 did not originally
clear the M2, the clearing process must be accomplished IAW Para A17.3. While the M2 is
capable of single shot and automatic modes of fire it will be employed in the automatic mode for
daily posting. When the full-load is authorized the following procedures will be used:
A17.6.1. (Added) Once the weapon has been cleared the gunner will depress bolt latch release
and lock down by turning the bolt latch release lock to the left. Ensure the bolt latch release is
held completely down with no movement and then open the top cover for loading
A17.6.2. (Added) The assistant gunner will open the ammunition can and draw the double loop
end of the belt into the feedway until first round is held by belt holding pawls. Close the cover.
A17.6.3. (Added) The gunner will pull the retracting slide handle rearward, retracting the bolt
all the way to the rear and release the handle.
A17.6.4. (Added) The gunner will pull the retracting slide handle rearward a second time,
retracting the bolt all the way to the rear. Release the handle. The M2 is now in the full-load
configuration. Do not move the safety, if equipped, to the “Fire” position unless deadly force is
required.

A17.7. (Added) Full-Load Clearing Procedures. Pointing the M2 into a commander
designated predetermined clearing zone, the M2 crew will perform the following:
A17.7.1. (Added) The gunner ensures the safety, if equipped, is on “Safe.” They will then open
the cover and remove ammunition from the feed area (trunnion block).
8                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009

A17.7.2. (Added) The gunner ensures bolt latch release lock is off, pulls the retracting slide
handle to the rear and inspects receiver, chamber, and T-slot (bolt) for ammunition. If a round is
present on the T-bock use a section of .50 caliber cleaning rod to push the round off.

A17.7.3. (Added) The gunner presses the bolt latch release, rides the bolt forward, and closes
the cover. The weapon is now clear and safe to transport for storage.
A17.8. (Added) On-Post Change Over. During normal daily operations post change over will
include complete change out of the M2, ammunition, and equipment. This will ensure proper
care and preventative maintenance is maintained. During contingency operations on post change
over of personnel, M2, ammunition, and equipment may be performed.
A17.9. (Added) Turn-in. After clearing the weapon and removing the barrel at the commander
designated predetermined clearing zone, the person requesting firearms turn-in must approach
the turn-in point and hand the M2 receiver and barrels separately to the armorer, butt first, cover
closed, bolt in the forward position, and the bolt latch release lock in the on position. The
armorer will take possession of the M2 and will open the cover and verify the weapon is
unloaded and clean. They will secure the M2 and its barrels in an approved rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009                                                                    9


                                    Attachment 18 (Added)

                        MK19 GRENADE MACHINE GUN (40mm)

A18.1. (Added) General Information. The MK19 is a crew-served 40mm grenade machine
gun (GMG). It is an air-cooled, blowback-operated machine gun, using a disintegrating metallic
link belt feed system and fires from the open bolt position. The MK19 GMG can be fired from
the M3 tripod or from a vehicle using a pedestal or ring mount. The primary munitions used in
the GMG is the high velocity M430 High Explosive Dual Purpose (HEDP) round.

A18.2. (Added) Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing the MK19.
NOTE: Due to the size and weight of the GMG, the person being armed may assist the armorer.

A18.2.1. (Added) Remove the GMG from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-
point clearing area.

A18.2.2. (Added) Place the weapon on a clean, hard surface and ensure the safety is in the
“Safe” position (letter S is visible).

A18.2.3. Added) Open the top cover and verify no ammunition is present in the feed tray or on
the face of the bolt.

A18.2.4. (Added) Align the primary and secondary drive levers and close the top cover. Do not
allow the top cover to slam shut from raised position as injury can result and the weapon can be
damaged. Issue the GMG to the person being armed.

A18.3. (Added) Post-Issue Clearing. The person being armed must immediately proceed to
the commander designated clearing zone with the GMG. They then must:

A18.3.1. (Added) Mount the weapon to the tripod or vehicle as required.

A18.3.2. (Added) Place the safety on “Fire” (letter F is visible). Unlock charger handle locks
by pressing in and rotating both charger handles down. Pull bolt to rear by pulling charger
handles fully to the rear LOCKING the bolt to the rear. Return chargers to the forward, up, and
locked position.

A18.3.3. (Added) Place the GMG in the “Safe” position and open the top cover. Verify no
ammunition is present in the feed tray, receiver or on the face of the bolt.

A18.3.4. (Added) Unlock and lower one charger handle and pull it to the rear and hold it in
place. Place the GMG in the “Fire” position, press the trigger, and ride the bolt forward with the
charger handle. Raise the charger handle to the locked position. CAUTION: Do not let the bolt
slam forward as damage may occur.
10                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009

A18.3.4. (Added) Place the GMG in the “Safe” position. Align the primary and secondary
drive levers and close the top cover. Do not allow the top cover to slam shut from raised position
as injury can result and the weapon can be damaged.

A18.3.5. (Added) Attach the feed throat, ammunition can hanger, can of ammunition, weather
cover (if needed due to conditions) and other accessories as required by the mission being
performed.

A18.4. (Added) Half-Loading Procedures. ACC units will not half-load the GMG for normal
posting, unless the use of deadly force is warranted. Prior to loading the GMG it must first be
cleared. If the person loading the GMG, is the same person who cleared the GMG upon issue,
the clearing process does not have to be repeated. If the person loading the GMG did not clear
the GMG, the clearing process must be accomplished IAW para A18.3.

A18.4.1. (Added) Once the weapon has been cleared the gunner will open the top cover for
loading.

A18.4.2. (Added) The assistant gunner will draw the linked ammo by female end through feed
throat assembly. They will ensure the first round is firmly seated between primary and
secondary pawls.

A18.4.3. (Added) The assistant gunner will align the primary and secondary drive levers and
close the top.

A18.4.4. (Added) The GMG will remain on “Safe” until the situation requires the GMG to be
advanced to the full-load configuration to engage hostilities.

A18.5. (Added) Half-Loaded Clearing Procedures. Pointing the GMG into a commander
designated predetermined clearing zone, the GMG crew will perform the following:

A18.5.1. (Added) The gunner will place the GMG safety in the “Safe” position and open the top
cover.

A18.5.2. (Added) The assistant gunner will release the secondary feed pawls and remove the
belt of ammunition.

A18.5.3. (Added) The assistant gunner will align the primary and secondary drive levers and
close the top cover.

A18.5.4. (Added) The gunner will place the safety in the “Fire” position. Unlock charger
handles and pull the bolt to the rear to the locked position. Return chargers to the forward, up,
and locked position.

A18.5.5. (Added) The gunner will place the GMG in the “Safe” position. Open the top cover
and verify no ammunition is present in the feed tray, receiver or on the face of the bolt.
AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009                                                                  11

A18.5.6. (Added) The gunner will unlock and lower one charger handle and pull it to the rear
and hold it in place. Place the GMG in the “Fire” position. Press the trigger and ride the bolt
forward with the charger handle. Raise the charger handle to the locked position. CAUTION:
Do not let the bolt slam forward as damage may occur.

A18.5.7. (Added) The GMG is now considered clear and safe to transport for storage.

A18.6. (Added) Full-Load Procedures. ACC units will not full-load the GMG unless the use
of deadly force is warranted. The full load is achieved by starting from the half-load
configuration. From the half-load configuration the gunner will:

A18.6.1. (Added) Place the safety in the “Fire” position. Unlock charger handles and pull the
bolt to rear to the locked position. Return chargers to the forward, up, and locked position.

A18.6.2. (Added) Press the trigger allowing the bolt to slam forward. They will again
immediately unlock charger handles, pull the bolt to rear to the locked position. Return the
chargers to the forward, up, and locked position. Place the weapon on “Safe.” The GMG is now
in the full-load configuration. Do not move the safety to the “Fire” position unless deadly force
is required.

A18.6.3. (Added) If the GMG is vehicle mounted and the vehicle will be moved from location
to another place the weapon on “Safe”, if the situation allows.

A18.7. (Added) Full-Load Clearing Procedures. Pointing the GMG into a commander
designated predetermined clearing zone, the GMG crew will perform the following:

A18.7.1. (Added) The gunner will ensure the GMG safety in the “Safe” position.

A18.7.2. (Added) The gunner will insert the handle section of a .50 caliber cleaning rod through
the side of the GMG so the rod is on top of the 40mm round casing close to the face of the GMG
bolt. The gunner will apply downward pressure on the casing and catch the 40mm round as it
drops out the bottom of the weapon.

A18.7.3. (Added) The gunner will open the top cover.

A18.7.4. (Added) The assistant gunner will release the primary and secondary feed pawls and
remove the belt of ammunition from the GMG.

A18.7.5. (Added) The gunner will unlock and lower one charger handle and pull it to the rear
and hold it in place. Place the GMG in the “Fire” position. Press the trigger and ride the bolt
forward with the charger handle. Raise the charger handle to the locked position. CAUTION:
Do not let the bolt slam forward as damage may occur.

A18.7.6. (Added) The assistant gunner will align the secondary and primary drive levers and
close the top.
12                                                        AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009

A18.7.7. (Added) The gunner will place the GMG in the “Safe” position. Open the top cover
and verify no ammunition is present in the feed tray, receiver or on the face of the bolt.

A18.7.8. (Added) The gunner will unlock and lower one charger handle and pull it to the rear
and hold it in place. Place the GMG in the “Fire” position. Press the trigger and ride the bolt
forward with the charger handle. Raise the charger handle to the locked position. Place the
GMG safety in the “Safe” position. CAUTION: Do not let the bolt slam forward as damage
may occur.

A18.7.9. (Added) The GMG is now considered clear and safe to transport for storage.

A18.8. (Added) On-Post Change Over. During normal daily operations post change over will
include complete change out of the GMG, ammunition, and equipment. This will ensure proper
care and preventative maintenance is maintained. During contingency operations, on-post
changeover of personnel, GMG, ammunition, and equipment may be performed.

A18.9. (Added) Turn-in. After the GMG has been cleared in the commander designated
clearing zone, it will be dismounted and returned to the armory for storage. The armorer taking
possession will ensure the safety is on “Safe”. They will open the cover and verify the weapon
is unloaded and clean. They will secure the GMG in an approved storage rack or container.
AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009                                                                       13


                                      Attachment 19 (Added)

                       M107 LONG RANGE SNIPER RIFLE (.50 CAL)

A19.1. (Added) General Information. The M107 Long Range Sniper Rifle (LRSR) is a .50
caliber, man-portable, semi-automatic, air-cooled, 10 round box magazine-fed, direct line of
sight rifle capable of providing precision fire on targets at a distance of approximately 2,000
meters. The entire system consists of the rifle equipped with bipod, muzzle brake, carrying
handle, six (6) spare magazines, fixed variable 4.5 X 14 power sniper scope, telescope
adjustment tools, fitted carrying case, the requisite cleaning kit drag bag, and cleaning
equipment. The Air Force Security Forces employ this weapon system as part of the Advanced
Designated Marksman (ADM) program. ADMs must attend and pass the Air Force ADM course
before assuming operational status or being assigned against the QFEBX Unit Type Code.

A19.2. (Added) Issue. The armorer must use the following procedures when issuing the M107:

A19.2.1. (Added) Remove the LRSR from its storage rack or container and proceed to the issue-
point clearing area at “port-arms,” bolt in the forward (closed) position and safety on “Safe”.

A19.2.2. (Added) Place the muzzle of the weapon into the clearing barrel aiming point ensuring
it is in line with the axis of the clearing barrel. Grasp the charging handle and pull the bolt to the
rear (bolt will not lock to the rear.) Check the chamber and magazine well to ensure no rounds
are present.

A19.2.3. (Added) Dry-cycle the weapon several times (work the bolt all the way back and
forth). If either the upper or lower receiver assemblies are damaged the bolt carrier will not
move freely.

A19.2.4. (Added) Hand the LRSR to the person being arming, butt first, muzzle elevated, and
safety switch in the “Safe” position.

A19.3. (Added) Post-Issue Clearing and Loading Procedures. The person being armed must
immediately proceed to the clearing zone with the LRSR in the “port-arms” position, muzzle
elevated, the safety switch in the “Safe” position. The LRSR magazines will be loaded with a
maximum of nine (9) rounds IAW the applicable operator technical order. They then must:

A19.3.1. (Added) When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and
place the muzzle into the clearing barrel aiming point ensuring it is in line with the axis of the
clearing barrel. Do not place a finger into the trigger guard.

A19.3.2. (Added) Ensure the safety is in the “Safe” position and no magazine is loaded. Grasp
the charging handle and pull/hold the bolt to the rear. Visually inspect the chamber and
magazine well to ensure no ammunition is present. The clearing barrel attendant verifies the
LRSR is unloaded and if it is safe to proceed.
14                                                         AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009

A19.3.3. (Added) While holding the charging handle, lock the bolt forward. Do not allow the
bolt to slam forward as damage will occur. The LRSR is now cleared.

A19.3.4. (Added) If there is no immediate need to load a magazine, the magazine may be
inserted upon assumption of post. A round will not be chambered nor the selector lever be
moved to the “Fire” position, unless hostilities are expected and the armed person must be able
to return fire with minimal delay.

A19.3.5. (Added) If a magazine must be inserted to meet an immediate duty requirement, keep
the LRSR in the clearing barrel aiming point ensuring it is in line with the axis of the clearing
barrel and place the magazine hook, located on the front of the magazine, onto the hinge, located
in the front of the magazine well. Now rotate the magazine upwards until you hear the click of it
locking into the rear magazine catch. Tugging on the magazine to ensure it is properly seated. A
round will not be chambered nor the selector lever moved to the “Fire” position unless deadly
force is required.

A19.4. (Added) Unloading and Clearing. Armed personnel must ensure they remove the
loaded magazine immediately upon relief from post or duty location. Posting supervisors must
ensure removal of the loaded magazine from the LRSR before the individual departs his or her
post or duty location. In cases where a posting supervisor is not present, the spotter will ensure
removal of the loaded magazine from the LRSR.

A19.4.1. (Added) Armed personnel preparing to clear firearms must approach the clearing zone
with the LRSR “port-arms” position.

A19.4.2. (Added) When directed by the clearing barrel attendant, enter the clearing zone and
give the clearing barrel attendant the removed, loaded magazine. Immediately place the muzzle
of the LRSR into the clearing barrel aiming point ensuring it is in line with the axis of the
clearing barrel. Do not place fingers into the trigger guard.

A19.4.3. (Added) The clearing barrel attendant must verify the LRSR does not have a magazine
inserted before proceeding with clearing procedures.
A19.4.4. (Added) Visually inspect the LRSR to ensure the selector lever is in the “Safe”
position, pull the charging handle to rear, a round will eject if chambered, and hold the charging
handle to the rear.

A19.4.5. (Added) The operator and clearing barrel official will visually inspect the chamber
ensure no ammunition is present and the safety is on “Safe” prior to turning the weapon in.

A19.4.6. (Added) Proceed to the firearms turn-in point with the rifle at port-arms and turn in the
weapon.

A19.5. (Added) Turn-in. When directed, approach the turn-in point and hand the rifle to the
armorer “butt” first, muzzle elevated, and the safety on “Safe” position. The armorer will take
possession of the rifle and immediately place the muzzle into the issue/turn-in barrel aiming
AFMAN31-229 12 MARCH 2009                                                                        15

point ensuring it is in line with the axis of the clearing barrel. Do not place fingers into trigger
guard.

A19.5.1. (Added) The armorer will visually inspect the LRSR to ensure the selector lever is in
the “Safe” position, Grasp the charging handle and pull/hold the bolt to the rear. They will
visually inspect the chamber and receiver area to ensure no ammunition is present. While
holding the charging handle, lock the bolt forward. Do not allow the bolt to slam forward as
damage will occur. Ensure the safety is on “Safe” and the weapon is clear.

A19.5.2. (Added) The armorer will place the safety to “Fire” and press the trigger to release the
hammer. The weapon is now safe for storage.
