BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE MANUAL 33-363
SUPERINTENDENT
                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
                                                                         Supplement

                                                                         9 SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                             Certified Current on 9 March 2012
                                                             Communications and Information

                                                              MANAGEMENT OF RECORDS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 10 CS/SCXSQ                                      Certified by: 10 CS/SCX (Ms. Cathy Gale)
Supersedes: AFMAN37-123_USAFASUP1,                                                   Pages: 8
             5 May 2005


Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, is
supplemented as follows: This supplement applies to all United States Air Force Academy
personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in
accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement is revised to match the number on the new AFMAN 33-363 and to add a
requirement for each unit to create a Vital Records Plan.
2.2. The location column will also be used to identify annual cutoff or event records, cutoff
records for which a waiver has been approved to retain in the local files area, and the type year
each record is filed by. Codes are as follows:
  Code        Meaning
  (AY)        Cutoff records filed by Academic Year (30 June)
  (CY)        Cutoff records filed by Calendar Year (31 December)
  (FY)        Cutoff records filed by Fiscal Year (30 September)
  (E)         Event cutoff records (Example: Destroy 3 years after final payment)
  (W)         Cutoff record with approved waiver to retain in local files area
 2                                        AFMAN33-363_USAFASUP 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


3.7.6. Some modular or systems-type filing equipment has no label holders on the drawers. In
that case, identify the records maintained in each drawer on a label affixed to a guide card. File
the guide card in front of the first folder in the drawer.
A5.1. Each unit will develop a vital records plan and provide a copy to the Base Records
Management office (10 CS/SCXSCR). See Attachment 7 for Vital Records Plan template. Unit
vital records plans will be updated every two years and a copy will be sent to 10 CS/SCXSCR.
AFMAN33-363_USAFASUP 9 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                             3


                                     Attachment 7 (Added)
                                   VITAL RECORDS PLAN

                      (Spell out squadron name) (Unit & office symbol)
                        UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY

                 CONTINGENCY PLANNING AND RISK ASSESSMENT

The vital records and records disaster mitigation and recovery programs relate to emergency
preparedness. Contingency planning is critical to laying the foundation for both programs, and
appropriate agency staff should be involved in this process. The planning provides a forum for
dealing with the following issues:

 a. Determining the most critical activities that (Squadron Name) must perform if it must
operate under other than normal business conditions and in a facility other than its normal place
of business.

 b. Identifying which records are required to support those critical activities and the
reconstitution of normal operations.

 c. Identifying which records series or electronic information systems contain information
necessary to protect the legal and financial rights of the agency and persons affected by the
agency’s actions and preserving copies of such records.

 d. Establishing and implementing a plan to recover records (regardless of the medium of
recording) that are damaged in an emergency or disaster.

              IDENTIFICATION AND INVENTORY OF VITAL RECORDS

All records maintained by the (Office Name) office are important and every possible preventive
measure should be taken to prevent damage to all records. The following are considered vital
records. (List your office’s vital records here including their location or attach the Vital Records
Report from AFRIMS). Below are general types of vital records:

 a. Emergency Plans (Contingency or Operations)

 b. Emergency Access Credentials such as access listings, badges, code

 c. Passwords and combinations

 d. Personnel Records

 e. Medical Records

 f. Court Martial
 4                                        AFMAN33-363_USAFASUP 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


 g. Records of Deceased Personnel

 h. Records of Historical Value

 i. Payroll Records

 j. Location of Backup Files (Paper or Electronic)

 k. Building Plans

 l. Equipment Inventories

 m. Contractual Documents

 n. Vehicle and aircraft maintenance records

 o. Special Orders (Permanent or Long-term Orders/Records)

 p. Delegations of Authority

                         EMERGENCY INFORMATION MATRIX

Place emergency/vital information here. Below are some examples:

 a. Building Manager

 b. Fire Department

 c. Security

 d. Hospital

 e. Base Records Manager

 f. Emergency shut-off valves (electric, water) location

 g. Utility Service Providers (including contact information)

 h. Other service providers required for recovery/reconstruction (including contact information)

 i. Personnel responsibilities (including who will evacuate records)

 j. Established point of operation
AFMAN33-363_USAFASUP 9 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                            5


                                  DISASTER PREVENTION

1. Monitoring of Temperature/Humidity Control Equipment. (Squadron & Office Symbol)
currently maintains records in the form of paper and electronic. Preventive maintenance should
be performed by the (Squadron Name) to ensure equipment does not fail. The building manager
will be contacted immediately when the discovery of equipment failure has been determined.

2. Safe Storage of Records. To ensure safe storage of records, certain procedures will be
followed. Records will not to be stored less than six inches from ceilings or suspended lights or
eighteen inches from sprinkler heads. Records will not be stored in contact with electrical or fire
alarm systems or where they will obstruct any exit access panel, air conditioning duct, or fire
extinguisher. Precaution will be taken while eating and drinking around records. The base RM
periodically inspects the staging area and if there are any roof leaks or signs of the presence of
rodents or insects, they will be reported immediately to the appropriate base agency to correct the
situation to ensure the safe storage of records.

3. Fire Prevention. Fire prevention procedures must constantly be in effect. Good
housekeeping, constant monitoring, and prompt elimination of fire hazards are essential. There
will be no smoking while dealing with records. All flammable solvents must be kept out of
records storage areas. Trash must not be allowed to accumulate. Electrical outlets will not be
overloaded. Extension cords should not be used on a permanent basis. When extension cords
are used for a temporary job, they should be industrial-weight cords. (Squadron & Office
Symbol) staff members are expected to become familiar with the location and operations of fire
alarms, emergency exits, and evacuation routes. Also, the members should become familiar with
the use of fire extinguishers. If anyone needs training, contact base fire department to get OJT.

4. Monitoring for water leaks. Office Building (#) has a sprinkler system. (Squadron &
Office Symbol) personnel must be aware at all times to detect and correct any possible water
leaks. If necessary, plastic sheeting is to be immediately placed on the top of the file areas near
the leak. Pails and buckets may be needed to collect water. Constant monitoring of the situation
is needed to see if additional leaks occur and to empty pails. If records are getting damaged by
leaking water, remove them to a safe, dry area.

5. Evacuation Plans. All (Squadron & Office Symbol) staff members are expected to become
familiar with the location and operation of emergency exits, evacuation routes, and fire alarms.
They are also required to notify their supervisors immediately of any potentially dangerous
situations. Personnel responsible for evacuation of vital records must be familiar with location
and list of records. (Reference the evacuation plan for Bldg/unit)

                  PLAN OF ACTION FOR EMERGENCY SITUATIONS

1. Floods. If a warning of impending flood is announced or ominous conditions are observed, a
supervisor should be immediately notified. If necessary, an order for a quick and orderly
evacuation of all staff members to a given area within the building will be given. Usually there
will be enough time to properly protect records and resources. In case of water leakage, protect
records by placing them high off the floor and placing plastic over file cabinets. (Squadron &
 6                                          AFMAN33-363_USAFASUP 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


Office Symbol, building # is/is not) situated within a flood plain area; however, during periods of
extremely heavy rain, conditions should be monitored to observe for the signs of flooding,
blocked sewers, or other water-related problems.

2. Fire. Any staff member who discovers a fire will promptly alert the proper authorities
through the use of the nearest fire alarm pull station (fire alarm box) and to notify all personnel
in the building to evacuate. The utmost important safety precaution is to ensure the safety of
human life. If dialing 911 can be safely accomplished, notify emergency personnel of the
location and severity of the fire, and the name of the person who sounded the alarm.

 a. The first step taken after a fire disaster has occurred is to insure that the building is safe to
enter before any attempts should be made to salvage records. If the air conditioning system still
works, it should remain on. It is imperative to bring the temperature and humidity down, as
mold will appear within 48 hours in unventilated areas made damp and harmed by water.

 b. If any of the records have been damaged by fire, extreme caution must be used in handling
them. The records will be brittle and probably wet. Pieces of paper towels or unpainted paper
should be placed under each charred page before moving the item. The towel or unpainted paper
serves two purposes, to absorb moisture and to provide support. The corner of the towel or
unpainted paper is then used to move the document.

 c. If the volume of damaged archival records is small, the documents should be divided into
three groups; those that will be packed and frozen; records that are only slightly damaged and
can be fan dried or air dried right away; and those that were not damaged and need no treatment,
make arrangements for possible relocation.

3. Water Damaged Materials. Due to the necessity of immediate action, primary emphasis of
this plan is on the salvage of water-damaged materials. Short of destruction by explosion or fire,
damage to records resulting from water is probably the most severe. Virtually any wet document
can be restored if prompt and proper action is taken. Exceptions are documents which contain
very water-soluble ink; these documents should be microfilmed. Although the specific methods
for salvaging small amounts of material may differ from the methods for salvaging large
amounts, the same general procedures are used for any type of water damage (freezing or
drying). Records that are caked with mud should be allowed to dry before attempts to remove
the dirt are taken. After the records are dry, dirt and debris can be brushed off with brushes.

4. Insects or Rodents. To reduce the possibility of insect or rodent infestation, food and drinks
should be properly stored. If records are infested with insects or rodents, the building manager
will be contacted to request assistance in fumigating the area.

5. Severe Storm Warnings. If a warning of impending storm (such as torrential rain, gale force
winds, damaging sleet, or tornado warning) is broadcast or ominous conditions are observed, a
supervisor should be immediately notified. If necessary, an order for a quick and orderly
evacuation of all employees to a given area within the building will be given. Building is/is not
situated within a flood plain area; however, during periods of extremely heavy rain, conditions
AFMAN33-363_USAFASUP 9 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                            7


should be monitored to observe for the signs of flooding, blocked sewers, or other water-related
problems.

6. Prolonged Power Outage. A power outage is usually a short-term inconvenience, not a
major emergency. However, in the event of an extended power outage lasting more than one
day, paper records may be vulnerable to damage. Paper is sensitive to changes in air temperature
and to the amount of water vapor in the air. Rapid changes in temperature and relative humidity
over a short period of time will accelerate the irreversible deterioration process. High
temperatures and/or low relative humidity may cause textual records to become brittle and crack.
High relative humidity may cause textual records to warp and promote the growth of mold and
mildew. Diskettes may also be affected by rapid changes in temperature and relative humidity.
In the event of a prolonged power outage, every effort must be made to maintain proper
temperature and relative humidity levels. The building manager should be contacted in any case
of prolonged outage. Good air circulation is important. Temperature and relative humidity
levels should be checked. If the power outage continues for an extended period, place extremely
valuable or fragile records in a location that will maintain the desired temperature (70 degrees F.
+/- 5 degrees) and relative humidity (50% +/- 5%). After power is restored, temperature and
relative humidity should be gradually brought to normal levels.


                                                    Commander’s Signature Block
 8                                           AFMAN33-363_USAFASUP 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


                               PLAN OF ACTION CHECKLIST
Issue                          Steps to Take                                                  Completed
Temperature/Humidity Control   1. Contact building manager immediately
Equipment Failure
                                2. If necessary, follow steps outlined in prolonged power
                                outage section below.
Floods                         1. NCC will ensure duplicate of electronic vital records is
                               accomplished and stored in geographically separate
                               location.
                               2. Ensure all electronic vital records have been updated
                               to appropriate folders on the O: Drive.
                               3. Protect vital records by placing them high off the floor.
                               4. Place a plastic sheet over file cabinets.
                               5. If safe to do so, monitor situation for water leakage,
                               flooding, sewer blockage, or other related water problems
Sever Storm Warming            1. If safe, monitor building for signs of water leakage,
                               flooding, blocked sewers, or other water related problems.
Fire                           1. If safe to do so, call 911 to notify emergency personnel
                               the location and severity of fire and name of person who
                               pulled the alarm.
                               2. Prepare vital records to be evacuated with personnel if
                               time permits
                               3. Gather personnel as far away as possible from
                               building.
After Fire                     1. Ensure building is safe to re-enter.
                               2. If air conditioning still works, it should remain on.
                               3. Handle records damaged by fire with extreme care.
                               4. Place paper towels or unprinted newspaper under each
                               charred record.
                               5. Divide records into three groups:
                                 a. Those that will be packed and frozen.
                                 b. Those to be fan dried.
                                 c. Those that need no treatment.
                               6. Make arrangements for possible relocation of records.
Water Damaged Records          1. Contact Base Records Manager to determine if records
                               should be dried or frozen.
                               2. If records are caked with mud, allow to dry before
                               attempting to remove. Brush away, once dried.
Insects or Rodents             1. Contact building manager to request fumigating the
                               area.
Prolonged Power Outage         1. Contact building manager
                               2. Monitor records to ensure mold/mildew are not
                               forming on records.
                               3. If necessary, acquire equipment to cool building to
                               approximately 70 degrees with relative humidity at 50
                               percent.



                                                EDWARD J. WERNER, Lt Col, USAF
                                                Commander, 10th Communications Squadron
