BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE MANUAL 51-204
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           18 JANUARY 2008
                                                              Incorporating Through Change 2,
                                                                                 9 October 2014

                                                                                            Law

                                                    UNITED STATES AIR FORCE JUDICIARY
                                                        AND AIR FORCE TRIAL JUDICIARY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFLOA/JAJM                                              Certified by: AF/JAA (Mr. Gregory
                                                                                        Girard)
                                                                                       Pages: 8
Supersedes:    AFMAN51-204, 1 July 1995


This manual describes the organization, function, and operation of the United States Air Force
Judiciary (AFLOA/JAJ) and the Air Force Trial Judiciary (AF/JAT). It also enumerates certain
duties of key USAF Judiciary and AF Trial Judiciary personnel, but the list of duties is not
exclusive. Refer to AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, for guidance on detailing
personnel to courts-martial. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change deletes the Office of Airman’s Counsel (OAC) in the Trial Defense Division
and the additional positions that were added because of this new office.

A bar ( | ) indicates revision from the previous edition.
1. Organization and Personnel:
   1.1. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG). TJAG exercises overall responsibility for the
   USAF Judiciary through the Commander, Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA),
   and exercises overall responsibility for the AF Trial Judiciary through the Chief Trial Judge.
2                                                         AFMAN51-204 18 JANUARY 2008


    Unless otherwise stated, all personnel mentioned hereafter are judge advocates appointed and
    assigned by TJAG.
    1.2. The Director, USAF Judiciary (AFLOA/JAJ). A judge advocate designated to
    exercise supervisory responsibility for the USAF Judiciary, including all members assigned
    to AFLOA who are detailed to perform full-time duties as chief senior trial counsel (CSTC),
    senior trial counsel (STC), chief senior defense counsel (CSDC), senior defense counsel
    (SDC), area defense counsel (ADC), defense paralegal manager (DPM), and defense
    paralegal (DP). In addition, the AFLOA/JAJ director has supervisory responsibility over
    personnel assigned to AFLOA/JAJA, AFLOA/JAJM, AFLOA/JAJG and AFLOA/JAJR.
    1.3. Chief Trial Judge (AF/JAT). The military judge designated by TJAG under Article
    26(c), Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), whose duties include supervising military
    judges, detailing judges to all Air Force General and Special courts-martial, supervising the
    Central Docketing Office (CDO), and supervising the docketing of all General and Special
    courts-martial within the Air Force. The Chief Trial Judge (CTJ) may delegate the authority
    to docket courts-martial and detail military judges OCONUS to the Chief Regional Military
    Judge in the OCONUS region. The CTJ identifies and aligns judges to preside over courts-
    martial and hearings in an expeditionary environment. The CTJ (or delegee) also details
    military judges to administrative hearings, as appropriate. AF/JAT reports to TJAG and is not
    in the AFLOA chain of command.
    1.4. Chief, Government Trial and Appellate Counsel Division (AFLOA/JAJG). A judge
    advocate designated to supervise the CSTC and all STCs. This individual may detail the
    CSTC and STCs to courts-martial and supervises all Air Force appeals before the Air Force
    Court of Criminal Appeals (AFCCA), the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces
    (USCAAF), and the U.S. Supreme Court. This individual may delegate authority to the
    CSTC to detail himself/herself to courts-martial.
    1.5. Chief, Trial Defense Division (AFLOA/JAJD). A judge advocate designated to
    supervise the division’s CSDCs, DPMs, SDCs, ADCs, and DPs. Duties also include
    detailing defense counsel to courts-martial and serving as the appellate authority on
    individual military defense counsel requests for CSDCs, SDCs, and ADCs. This individual
    may delegate detailing authority to CSDCs and SDCs within their own areas of
    responsibility.
    1.6. Chief, Appellate Defense Division (AFLOA/JAJA). A judge advocate designated to
    supervise all appeals before the AFCCA, USCAAF, and the U.S. Supreme Court filed by
    assigned personnel on behalf of active duty Air Force members after their court-martial
    conviction.
    1.7. Chief, Military Justice Division (AFLOA/JAJM). A judge advocate responsible for
    providing field support on ongoing cases, development and dissemination of Air Force
    military justice instructions and policy, and supervision of reviews and other UCMJ actions
    required of the Office of The Judge Advocate General. For all purposes under the UCMJ,
    AFLOA/JAJM is considered a component of the Office of The Judge Advocate General.
    1.8. Chief, Clemency, Corrections and Officer Review Division (AFLOA/JAJR). The
    JAJR Chief recommends Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) action on affirmed sentences to
    dismissal and action by SECAF or TJAG on all court-martial sentences in which clemency
AFMAN51-204 18 JANUARY 2008                                                                   3


   may be appropriate. AFLOA/JAJR also represents TJAG on the SECAF Clemency and
   Parole Board, advises the Pardon Attorney on applications for executive clemency, and is
   counsel to the Director of the Air Force Corrections on matters relating to corrections and
   rehabilitation of prisoners.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Central Docketing Office (CDO). The CDO is responsible directly to the Chief Trial
   Judge (CTJ). The CDO’s primary function is to implement the CTJ’s (or the CTJ’s
   delegee’s) decisions regarding the docketing of courts and detailing of military judges.
   2.2. Military Judge. A judge advocate designated as a military judge according to Article
   26(b) or (c), UCMJ, and assigned to a designated region or to the Chief Trial Judge. Military
   judges may detail themselves to courts-martial, if delegated such authority. In addition to
   their duties in courts-martial,judges may perform the following duties, in an installation or
   expeditionary environment, subject to availability as determined by the CTJ:
       2.2.1. Serve as legal advisors for administrative boards convened under AFI 36-3206,
       Administrative Discharge Procedures; AFI 36-3207, Administrative Separation of
       Commissioned Officers; and AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen.
       2.2.2. Serve as Article 32, UCMJ, investigating officers. Courts-martial and
       administrative boards under AFI 36-3206 take precedence.
       2.2.3. Serve as legal advisors on other administrative discharge boards. Courts-martial,
       boards under AFI 36-3206 and Article 32 investigations take precedence.
       2.2.4. Serve as hearing officers for contingent confinement hearings as provided for in
       AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice.
       2.2.5. Upon the request of a convening authority, serve as pretrial confinement hearing
       officers.
       2.2.6. With the consent of the Chief Trial Judge, conduct other investigations.
       2.2.7. With the approval of the Chief Trial Judge, perform administrative law functions,
       such as presiding officer at draft environmental impact statement hearings, Superfund
       Amendment and Reauthorization Act hearings, and other administrative actions.
   2.3. Chief Senior Trial Counsel. The CSTC supervises the STCs. The CSTC’s duties are
   to perform STC duties and to detail STCs to courts-martial. The CSTC may detail
   herself/himself to courts-martial if delegated that authority.
   2.4. Senior Trial Counsel. A judge advocate certified under Article 27(b)(2), UCMJ,
   whose primary duties include the following in order of priority:
       2.4.1. Serve as trial counsel in general courts-martial (GCM) and administrative boards
       convened under AFIs 36-3206 and 36-3207 when requested and deemed available by the
       CSTC.
       2.4.2. Serve as the government representative in Article 32, UCMJ, investigations when
       requested by a staff judge advocate (SJA) as other duties permit and when made available
       by the CSTC.
4                                                           AFMAN51-204 18 JANUARY 2008


       2.4.3. Serve as trial counsel in special courts-martial (SPCM) when requested as other
       duties permit and when made available by the CSTC.
       2.4.4. Train, advise, and assist other personnel involved in the prosecution of courts-
       martial as other duties permit.
       2.4.5. Serve as recorder for administrative boards convened under AFI 36-3208, as other
       duties permit and when made available by the CSTC.
       2.4.6. In the absence of the CSTC, and when delegated the authority to do so by the
       CSTC, shall detail other STCs as trial counsel for courts-martial.
       2.4.7. SJAs will use the expertise and services of the CSTC and the STCs to the
       maximum extent possible. SJAs have overall responsibility for each court-martial. Trial
       counsel (TC) represents the SJA in fulfilling that responsibility on particular cases to
       which the TC is detailed.
    2.5. Chief Senior Defense Counsel. A CSDC is a judge advocate certified under Article
    27(b)(2), UCMJ, who assists the Chief, Trial Defense Division, in the operation and
    management of JAJD and is responsible for the provision of defense services and supervision
    of all defense personnel across a geographical area of responsibility. Duties include serving
    as defense counsel in selected courts-martial and other adverse actions, supervising a DPM,
    detailing SDCs to courts-martial and other adverse actions, oversight of SDCs’ detailing of
    ADCs, and acting on individual military defense counsel requests for SDCs and ADCs.
    2.6. An SDC is a judge advocate certified under Article 27(b)(2), UCMJ, who supervises all
    defense personnel and details ADCs within that SDC’s geographical region to courts-martial.
    An SDC is subject to oversight of a CSDC. Ordinarily, the SDC office will be collocated
    with an ADC office. In addition, SDC duties include the following:
       2.6.1. Serve as defense counsel in courts-martial.
       2.6.2. Train, advise, and assist other defense personnel in the region.
       2.6.3. Serve as respondent’s counsel in administrative boards convened under AFIs 36-
       3206, 36-3207, or 36-3208.
       2.6.4. Act on IDMC requests for ADCs.
    2.7. Area Defense Counsel. A judge advocate certified under Article 27(b)(2), UCMJ, and
    assigned to a designated ADC office. An ADC is responsible for providing all defense
    services at the base where assigned, unless disqualified or another counsel is detailed to
    represent a particular individual. The senior ADC is also responsible for the administration of
    the office. ADC duties include the following in order of priority:
       2.7.1. Serve as counsel in all actions under the UCMJ, such as:
           2.7.1.1. General courts-martial;
           2.7.1.2. Special courts-martial;
           2.7.1.3. Article 32, UCMJ, investigations;
           2.7.1.4. Nonjudicial punishment actions under Article 15, UCMJ.
       2.7.2. When requested, serve as counsel during Article 31, UCMJ, interrogation.
AFMAN51-204 18 JANUARY 2008                                                                    5


      2.7.3. Serve as counsel in administrative discharge actions, such as:
          2.7.3.1. Administrative discharge boards convened under AFIs 36-3206, 36-3207, or
          36-3208.
          2.7.3.2. Administrative discharge notification actions.
      2.7.4. Serve as military legal advisor in foreign criminal jurisdiction cases.
      2.7.5. Pursuant to AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality and Military Law,
      providing advice to members referred for mental health evaluations under paragraph 4.
      2.7.6. Represent Air Force members in other adverse actions, such as reports of survey,
      administrative demotions and flying evaluation boards in which counsel for an individual
      is required or authorized.
      2.7.7. (DELETED)
   2.8. Defense Paralegal Manager (DPM). A senior noncommissioned officer assigned to
   AFLOA/ JAJD whose primary duty is to assist the Chief, Trial Defense Division concerning
   manpower issues, training, and utilization of the defense paralegals assigned to the Division,
   and who provides DPs with guidance and training concerning the provision of defense
   services and office management. A DPM will also provide training and guidance to SDCs
   and ADCs on enlisted personnel issues.
   2.9. Defense Paralegal (DP ). An airman, noncommissioned officer, or civilian employee
   assigned to the ADC office, whose primary duty is to support the ADC in the management
   and operation of the ADC office. DPs shall stay current in all training requirements as
   described in TJAG policy memorandum Per-03, Defense Paralegal Program.
   2.10. DELETED
   2.11. Disability Counsel. A judge advocate or civilian attorney certified by TJAG and
   assigned to the OAC. A disability counsel is responsible for providing legal advice and
   representation to Airmen entered into the USAF disability evaluation system (DES), unless
   the Airman is represented by civilian counsel. Disability counsel duties include the
   following:
      2.11.1. Providing advice following an adverse decision of a medical evaluation board
      (MEB);
      2.11.2. Providing advice following any decision of the informal physical evaluation
      board (IPEB);
      2.11.3. Providing advice and representation at the formal physical evaluation board
      (FPEB);
      2.11.4. Providing advice throughout the process of appealing to the Secretary of the Air
      Force Personnel Counsel.
   2.12. DELETED
   2.13. DELETED
3. Administrative and Logistical Support:
 6                                                          AFMAN51-204 18 JANUARY 2008


     3.1. Commanders of installations where USAF Judiciary or AF Trial Judiciary personnel are
     assigned or TDY are responsible for their administrative and logistical support. Host
     commanders will provide support to the USAF Judiciary and AF Trial Judiciary personnel as
     set forth in AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures.
        3.1.1. Support of assigned military judges, STCs, and ADCs offices will be no less than
        the support of other units assigned to the host command. This support includes, but is not
        limited to, the following:
            3.1.1.1. Private office space, including necessary furniture and supplies and access to
            electronic law library facilities, clearly designated as an AF/JAT, military judge,
            AFLOA STC, or ADC office, for each function area—judiciary, prosecution, and
            defense. ADC offices shall be physically separated from the offices of the SJA and
            the convening authority. AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, sets forth
            minimum space requirements.
            3.1.1.2. Communications equipment, to include: Class A telephone services; E-mail
            capability; and a cellular phone with service for emergency/on-call purposes.
            3.1.1.3. Military family housing on the same basis as other personnel of like grade,
            rank, and responsibility.
            3.1.1.4. Civilian personnel services normally provided by the Civilian Personnel
            Office (CPO).
            3.1.1.5. Publications support normally furnished tenant units.
            3.1.1.6. Funding for necessary supplies.
        3.1.2. Support of USAF Judiciary and AF Trial Judiciary personnel on temporary duty
        (TDY) to an installation should include providing suitable office space, administrative
        assistance, private billeting and military transportation support, to include providing a
        government owned vehicle (GOV) for their use while TDY. Military transportation
        support is a “mission essential“ function. SJAs assist in obtaining appropriate support for
        personnel performing TDY at their bases by arranging appropriate billeting, messing, and
        transportation in advance to ensure TDY personnel may devote full attention to duties.
     3.2. AFLOA furnishes travel costs and per diem.
4. Coordination. Although the USAF Judiciary and AF Trial Judiciary functions are separate
and distinct, each must coordinate administrative activities with the other to manage the mission
effectively and economically.




                                              CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                              Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              The Judge Advocate General
AFMAN51-204 18 JANUARY 2008                                          7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures
AFI 36-3207, Administrative Separation of Commissioned Officers
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen
AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice
TJAG Policy Memorandum Per-O3, Defense Paralegal Program (Deleted)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADC—Area Defense Counsel
AFCCA—Air Force Court of Criminal Appeals
AF/JAT—Air Force Trial Judiciary
AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency
CDO—Central Docketing Office
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
CSDC—Chief Senior Defense Counsel
CSTC—Chief Senior Trial Counsel
CTJ—Chief Trial Judge
DP—Defense Paralegal
DPM—Defense Paralegal Manager
GCM—General Court-Martial
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
JAJ—Judiciary Directorate
JAJA—Appellate Defense Division
JAJD—Trial Defense Division
JAJG—Government Trial and Appellate Counsel Division
JAJM—Military Justice Division
JAJR—Clemency, Corrections and Officer Review Division
JAT—Air Force Trial Judiciary
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
SDC—Senior Defense Counsel
 8                                                 AFMAN51-204 18 JANUARY 2008


SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SPCM—Special Courts-Martial
STC—Senior Trial Counsel
TC—Trial Counsel
TDY—Temporary Duty
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USCAAF—United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces
