BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE MANUAL 33-407
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           24 OCTOBER 2012

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                 AIR FORCE CLINGER-COHEN ACT (CCA)
                                                                COMPLIANCE GUIDE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/A6PPB                                                         Certified by: SAF/A6PP
                                                                        (Lt Col Hewett Wells)
                                                                                      Pages: 46


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-4, Information Technology
Governance. It provides guidance for all Air Force military, civilians, and contractor personnel
under contract by the Department of Defense (DoD) who are responsible for compliance and
reporting for Subtitle III of Title 40 of the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) of 1996; Department of
Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System; Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System; and Directive-Type
Memorandum (DTM) 09-025, Space Systems Acquisition Process. Implementation of CCA in
the Air Force is the responsibility of the Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information
Officer of the Air Force (SAF/CIO A6). This document is intended to assist in the
implementation of the guidance documents mentioned above, not as a replacement for them.
Specifically, this guidance is designed to clarify the application of the CCA confirmation and
compliance requirements to AF programs; delineate the AF CCA compliance and reporting
process with clearly defined process steps; and provide the latest CCA requirements, guidance,
and techniques for achieving CCA compliance.

This manual applies to all Air Force Active Duty Commands, Reserve, and Air National Guard
units. Commands may not change the basic procedures in this manual. Send recommended
changes or comments to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), Secretary of the Air Force,
Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer, Policy and Resources
Directorate, (SAF/A6PPB), 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1800, using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, with an information copy to SAF/A6PP.
Recommended changes or comments can also be sent via e-mail to
safxcppb.business@pentagon.af.mil. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
 2                                                                                   AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.


        1.     Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    2
        2.     CCA Coverage of IT Programs. .............................................................................                   3
        3.     CCA Compliance Reporting and Review. .............................................................                           5
Table 3.1.     CCA Compliance Reporting and Approval. ..........................................................                            6
Figure 3.1.    CCA Compliance Report Template. ......................................................................                       7
Table 3.2.     CCA Compliance Table. ........................................................................................               8
        4.     CCA Compliance Elements. ..................................................................................                 13
Table 4.       1 Architectural questions to be answered in the ISP ..............................................                          22
        5.     Post-Implementation Reviews. ..............................................................................                 27

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             30

Attachment 2—EXCERPT FROM DODI 5000.02, ENCLOSURE 5, SECTIONS 1 – 3                                                                        36

Attachment 3—DESCRIPTION AND DECISION AUTHORITY FOR ACAT I – III
             PROGRAMS                                                                                                                      37

Attachment 4—TYPICAL EVIDENCE OF CCA COMPLIANCE BY PROGRAM
             DOCUMENT                                                                                                                      38

Attachment 5—ARCHITECTURE ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST FOR CCA
             COMPLIANCE                                                                                                                    39

Attachment 6—INFORMATION ASSURANCE STRATEGY TEMPLATE (PROGRAM
             NAME) Acquisition IA Strategy                                                                                                 41

Attachment 7—INFORMATION ASSURANCE STRATEGY TEMPLATE FOR
             SYSTEMS IN SUSTAINMENT UNDERGOING MODERNIZATION                                                                               45

Attachment 8—EXCERPT FROM DIRECTIVE-TYPE MEMORANDUM 11-009,
             ACQUISITION POLICY FOR DEFENSE BUSINESS SYSTEMS (DBS),
             JUNE 23, 2011                                                                                                                 46


1. Introduction.
     1.1. This document provides guidance for compliance and reporting for Subtitle III of Title
     40 of the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) of 1996 (also referred to as CCA or Title 40/CCA; this
     guidance refers to the law as CCA for the purpose of brevity), Department of Defense
     Directive 5000.01 (The Defense Acquisition System), DoD Instruction 5000.02 (Operation
     of the Defense Acquisition System), and Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 09-025
     (Space Systems Acquisition Process, or SSAP). Implementation of CCA in the Air Force is
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  3


   the responsibility of the Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer of
   the Air Force (SAF/CIO A6) as directed in AFPD 33-4, Information Technology
   Governance.
   1.2. This document is intended to assist in the implementation of the guidance documents
   mentioned above, not as a replacement for them. Specifically, this guidance is designed to:
      1.2.1. Clarify the application of the CCA confirmation/compliance requirements to AF
      programs.
      1.2.2. Delineate an AF CCA compliance and reporting process with clearly defined
      process steps.
      1.2.3. Provide the latest CCA requirements, guidance, and techniques for achieving CCA
      compliance.
   1.3. CCA is the principal federal law on information technology (IT). Originally enacted as
   the Information Technology Management Reform Act, Division E of Public Law 104-106,
   the law’s primary purpose is to provide a framework for the role of the CIO in federal
   agencies and how the CIO should be involved in IT investments or IT acquisitions that
   support an agency’s mission. (The term ―investment‖ is used here to identify an AF activity
   related to the acquisition, procurement, development, management, operation, or closure of
   IT. Investment is used in the broadest sense, i.e., to include programs, projects, systems,
   business systems, family of systems, system of systems, and any other expenditures for IT or
   IT-related activities.) In accordance with the Foreword to the DoD publication ―Clinger
   Cohen Act of 1996 And Related Documents,‖ May 2000 (also referred to as the ―Purple
   Book‖), the Chief Information Officer (CIO) should ensure that IT investments:
      1.3.1. Support core mission functions, be undertaken because no alternative private
      sector or other government source can effectively support the function, and support work
      processes that have been redesigned or otherwise improved;
      1.3.2. Are consistent with the Agency’s architecture that integrates work processes and
      information flows with technology to achieve the Agency’s mission and strategic plan;
      1.3.3. Reflect a portfolio management approach where decisions on whether to invest in
      IT are based on potential return, and decisions to terminate or make additional
      investments are based on performance – much like an investment broker is measured and
      rewarded based on managing risk and achieving results; and
      1.3.4. Reduce risk and enhance manageability by discouraging ―grand‖ information
      system projects, and encouraging incremental, phased approaches.
   1.4. The importance of sections 1.3.1 through 1.3.4 indicates that CCA compliance reporting
   is more than checking items off of a list. CCA compliance reporting provides an opportunity
   for Program Managers or Project Managers to demonstrate that their programs are aligned
   with the Air Force’s mission and programmatic objectives, and that the IT investment or
   acquisition is being implemented according to sound IT and business principles.
2. CCA Coverage of IT Programs.
   2.1. CCA defines IT as any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment
   that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement,
4                                                          AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


    control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by
    the executive agency. IT includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and
    similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. This
    definition is also applied to National Security Systems (NSS). It does not include any
    equipment that is acquired by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract.
    2.2. CCA is implemented through, and its requirements are codified in, DoDI 5000.02,
    Enclosure 5 (see Attachment 2). Enclosure 5 explains that it and CCA apply to all IT
    investments, i.e., ―...all programs that acquire IT, including an NSS, at any Acquisition
    Category (ACAT) level.‖ Enclosure 5 also limits the authority of the Milestone Decision
    Authority (MDA) and the DoD Component, stating that ―...the MDA shall not initiate a
    program or an increment of a program, or approve entry into any phase of the acquisition
    process; and the DoD Component shall not award a contract until‖ two conditions take place:
    ―(1) the sponsoring DoD Component or PM has satisfied the requirements of Title 40/CCA;
    and (2) the DoD Component CIO, or designee, confirms Title 40/CCA compliance.‖
    2.3. The CCA approval requirements for Major Defense Automation Programs (MDAP) and
    Major Automation Information Systems (MAIS) Programs was modified by the DoD-CIO on
    May 18, 2012 in a memorandum titled ―Delegation of Title 40/CCA Confirmations for
    MDAP/MAIS Programs.‖ Per that memorandum, the DoD-CIO will participate in selected
    CCA activities to ensure compliance with DoD policies but the Service CIOs will provide the
    final CCA confirmation/approval on ACAT I programs.
    2.4. SAF/CIO A6 exercises its CCA oversight responsibility during four types of formal
    events:
       2.4.1. A MAIS or MDAP submits a Clinger-Cohen Act Compliance Report to SAF/CIO
       A6 for review and approval prior to a Milestone decision or a major contract award;
       2.4.2. During the regular acquisition review process for MAIS or MDAP programs
       conducted by the Office of Acquisition (SAF/AQ) for Air Force Space and Non-Space
       programs (in Air Force Review Boards (AFRBs) or Acquisition Strategy Panels (ASPs)).
       2.4.3. Concurrent with Defense Business Systems (DBS) certification reviews for AF
       business systems conducted by SAF/CIO A6 for non-MAIS, non-MDAP
       programs/systems.
       2.4.4. In response to inquiries or under other processes through which a program
       acquires IT.
    2.5. Although the CCA definition of IT cited in section 2.1 is critical in determining the
    application of DoDI 5000.02 to Air Force IT and other programs, SAF/CIO A6 applies a
    more focused approach to assist weapon system programs in meeting their CCA compliance
    and reporting requirements. In looking at weapon systems, we are looking at the way in
    which IT is incorporated or integrated into warfighting tools to increase mission readiness
    and enhance organizational effectiveness and efficiency. We are focused on ensuring that the
    best, most up-to-date, and accurate information is available in a communications network
    from those who send information to those who receive it. We are looking at how the weapon
    system (i.e., platform) sends and receives information (e.g., communications systems, data
    links, messaging, etc.). At some point, that communications capability might connect with
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   5


   an IP-based network, a GPS satellite, or some other platform although that is not a necessary
   precondition for CCA review.
   2.6. CCA does not distinguish among NSS, weapon systems, DBSs, non-space weapon
   systems acquisition programs, space acquisition programs, infrastructure, or intelligence
   systems. No exceptions are made for MAIS Programs, MDAPs, or for tiered systems.
   2.7. Legacy programs, i.e., programs that were initiated before the passage of CCA in 1996
   or the initiation of the 5000 series, are not exempt from CCA compliance. CCA does not
   include any provisions to grandfather programs that existed prior to the law’s enactment.
   The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued several memoranda
   contemporaneously with the passage of CCA that applied CCA principles to IT systems that
   predated passage of CCA. In accordance with OMB Memorandum M-97-02 on ―Funding
   Information Systems Investments‖ (dated October 25, 1996), agencies that were in the
   middle of ongoing projects initiated prior to enactment of CCA and were not able
   immediately to satisfy the eight investment criteria set out in that memorandum, could
   request future years funding to support the redesign of work processes, the evaluation of
   investment alternatives, the development of information architectures, and the use and
   evaluation of prototypes. OMB Memorandum M-97-16 on ―Information Technology
   Architectures‖ (June 18, 1997) directed legacy systems to focus on their interfaces with new
   systems, permitting the new and the old to interoperate in a cost-effective manner that does
   not compromise the ability of the new system to conform completely with the target
   architecture and standards. If the user interface of an older system does not conform to the
   architecture, a decision whether to change, replace, or terminate would turn on cost,
   operational, or functional effectiveness criteria. CCA compliance will not be exercised
   retroactively; however, modernizations undertaken in those older programs or new
   acquisitions undertaken within those programs are subject to CCA compliance.
3. CCA Compliance Reporting and Review.
   3.1. Compliance and Reporting. This section describes the different CCA compliance
   reporting methodologies for use by Air Force programs. The AF utilizes two different types
   of CCA compliance reporting methodologies and processes, depending upon the type of
   program, as presented in Table 3.1 and described in detail in the sections below: (1) a CCA
   Compliance Report that incorporates the CCA Compliance Table from DoDI 5000.02, Table
   8, and a corresponding narrative that describes an ACAT Program’s compliance with CCA;
   and (2) a stand-alone CCA Compliance Table that lists the documents used to demonstrate a
   program’s compliance with CCA.
 6                                                        AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012




Table 3.1. CCA Compliance Reporting and Approval.
              TYPE OF PROGRAM                          REPORTING               APPROVING
                                                      METHODOLOGY                OFFICE
          ACAT IAM, ACAT IAC:
 Major Automated Information Systems (MAIS)
            ACAT ID, ACAT IC:
 Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAP)
                                                       CCA Compliance
                                                                                 SAF/CIO A6
                ACAT II Programs                           Report
               ACAT III Programs in
            WMA, EIEMA, and DIMA
            Joint Programs – AF-owned
               ACAT III Programs in
                                                       CCA Compliance
            BMA, including traditional                                           SAF/CIO A6
                                                           Table
           Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3 programs
                                                       CCA Compliance
                      TIER 4                                                  Functional Level
                                                            Table
                                                        Registration in
                      TIER 5                                                         N/A
                                                           EITDR
                                                        Discretion of
         Joint Programs – Non-AF-owned                                           Owner CIO
                                                         Owner CIO
 Any IT project/program or project/program that
   acquires IT, selected as an IT Special Interest
  Program by SAF/A6 CIO, regardless of where               CCA Compliance Report or
that program is in its program lifecycle (including         CCA Compliance Table
 technology projects, service contracts, or supply      (depending upon SAF/CIO A6 discretion)
contracts that have not been designated as ACATs
     and are considered acquisition programs).
     3.2. CCA Compliance Review Process for Air Force ACAT I, ACAT II, and Selected
     ACAT III Programs. This section addresses the process steps for the preparation,
     scheduling, submission, review, and approval of the CCA Compliance Report. The CCA
     Compliance Report is used to ensure that all ACAT I (MAISs and MDAPs), ACAT II, and
     selected ACAT III programs are in compliance with CCA (see Attachment 3 for the
     definitions of the acquisition categories). This requirement also applies to any Tier system
     that is also assigned as an ACAT program. Confirmation of compliance with CCA has been
     defined by DoD as verifying compliance with the 11 key elements that are identified in DoDI
     5000.02 (Enclosure 5). CCA compliance approval in the AF is the responsibility of the
     SAF/CIO A6.
        3.2.1. CCA Compliance Report. A template for the CCA Compliance Report is
        presented in Figure 3.1. The report should be no longer than 20 pages and should be
        accompanied by a transmittal e-mail or memorandum to SAF/A6PP from the appropriate
        Command. As the CCA Compliance Report is intended to be a stand-alone document, a
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   7


       narrative that only refers the reader to a source document without addressing the element
       is a non-compliant response. DoD has been using the Clinger-Cohen Act Compliance
       Report or some variation of it as a way of demonstrating program compliance with CCA
       since the passage of the law. DoD provided guidance on the preparation of CCA
       Compliance Reports as far back as 1996, usually in memoranda that direct compliance in
       response to DoD appropriations or authorization laws. The report format and contents
       have evolved over the years but the basic content has been pretty much the same.

Figure 3.1. CCA Compliance Report Template.

Title Page/Cover Sheet
                                    Program Name
                                    Date of Report
                                    Issuing organization

Signature Page

Contains the required signatures, including the Program Manager, Wing Commander, MAJCOM or
Functional CIO (if applicable), and Program Executive Officer (PEO).

1. Introduction. This section should begin with the following two paragraphs:

This report contains information required for the Air Force Chief Information Officer (AF CIO) to assess
and confirm that (Name of Program) is being developed in accordance with Subtitle III of Title 40 U.S.C.
(formerly Division E of the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) of 1996). (Name of Program) and its CCA program
documentation have been reviewed by the Program Manager and are ready for assessment and
confirmation of Title 40/CCA compliance. The results of that review are reported in the following pages.
This report also contains information on the funding baseline and milestone schedule for (Name of
Program).

(Name of Program) supports the Air Force’s and DoD’s ability to (provide brief description of the mission
benefit(s)).

2. Overview. Provide a three or four-paragraph description of the mission need; key requirements,
objectives, goals, and priorities; and a description of program governance. Include the Program’s
Acquisition category (ACAT) designation, the status of the program (including management and milestone
reviews completed), recent MDA approvals, current program activities, and expected date of next
Milestone Review or contract award.

3. CCA Compliance Table. Complete Table 8 from DoDI 5000.02, Enclosure 5. Please number (1-11)
rather than letter (a-k) the CCA elements.

4. CCA Narrative. Describe program actions on the 11 CCA elements. The narrative for each element
only needs to be a few summary paragraphs that address how the program complies with that element; the
use of tables, figures, or other exhibit is allowed. The responses to the 11 CCA elements should be
numbered 4.1 through 4.11.
 8                                                                          AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012




Appendices

I. Funding baseline - prior year and current year through next five years, including Operations and
Maintenance, Procurement, Research Development Test and Evaluation.

II. Milestone schedule denoting each program milestone, the dates for milestones already attained, and the
dates for future milestones.

         3.2.2. CCA Compliance Table. The second form of reporting is a completed CCA
         Compliance Table (also referred to as the CCA Compliance Matrix). As noted above,
         CCA reporting for most ACATs require the CCA Compliance Table and the narrative.
         The stand-alone CCA Compliance Table is used by Tier programs. As developed by the
         Business Transformation Agency (BTA), the Modernization Investment Tiers for
         Information Resources Board (IRB) certification are Tier 1: equivalent to MAIS/MDAP
         programs; Tier 2: exceeding $10 million, but not designated MAIS or MDAP: Tier 3:
         exceeding $1 million to $10 million; Tier 4: Investment funding required, up to $1
         million; and Tier 5: programs in sustainment or steady state.

A compliance reporting submission to SAF/CIO A6 requires a completed Table 8 (from DoDI
5000.02 and replicated below in Table 3.2 that contains the 11 CCA requirements and a
corresponding list of original source documents that are used as proof of CCA compliance.
Table 3.2 contains an added column that presents applicable milestones for each CCA element
(do not include this column in CCA reporting submission). All milestone reporting requirements
must be met. Therefore, if a program reports on its CCA compliance for the first time prior to
IOC, it must still report on the elements on which it missed reporting at previous milestones. A
comparable table for the Business Capability Lifecycle (BCL) approach to CCA governance is
presented in Attachment 8 and a discussion on BCL in section 3.4.1.

Table 3.2. CCA Compliance Table.
                                             CCA COMPLIANCE TABLE
                             (Table 8 from DoDI 5000.02, amended with Milestone Requirements)

                                                                             Applicable
              Actions Required to Comply with                                                             Applicable
                                                                              Program
              Subtitle III/CCA (Reference (v))                                                            Milestone
                                                                           Documentation 1
 1.   Make a determination that the acquisition supports core, primary
                                                                         ICD Approval                 A
      functions of the Department. 2
 2.   Establish outcome-based performance measures linked to             ICD, CDD, CPD, and APB
                                                                                                      A, B, C
      strategic goals. 2, 3                                              approval
 3.   Redesign the processes that the system supports to reduce costs,   Approval of the ICD,
      improve effectiveness and maximize the use of COTS                 Concept of Operations,       A, B
      technology. 2, 3                                                   AoA, CDD, and CPD
                                                                         Acquisition Strategy, page
 4.   Determine that no Private Sector or Government source can
                                                                         XX, para XX                  A, B
      better support the function. 4
                                                                         AoA, page XX
                                                                                                      A, B (updated as
 5.   Conduct an analysis of alternatives. 3,4                           AOA                          necessary), C (updated
                                                                                                      as necessary)
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                                                     9

                                                                                                          For MAIS: A & B,
6.   Conduct an economic analysis that includes a calculation of the      Program LCCE                    FRPDR (or their
     return on investment; or for non-AIS programs, conduct a Life-       Program Economic Analysis       equivalent)
     Cycle Cost Estimate (LCCE). 3,4                                      for MAIS                        For non-MAIS: B /
                                                                                                          contract award
7.   Develop clearly established measures and accountability for          Acquisition Strategy, page
     program progress                                                     XX, APB                         B
8.   Ensure that the acquisition is consistent with the Global             APB (Net-Ready KPP)
     Information Grid policies and architecture, to include relevant       ISP (Information Exchange       B&C
     standards.                                                            Requirements)
9. Ensure that the program has an information assurance strategy
                                                                           Acquisition Information
     that is consistent with DoD policies, standards and architectures,                                    A, B, C, FRPDR
                                                                           Assurance Strategy
     to include relevant standards. 3
10. Ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, (1) modular
     contracting has been used, and (2) the program is being
                                                                           Acquisition Strategy, page
     implemented in phased, successive increments, each of which                                           B or contract award
                                                                           XX
     meets part of the mission need and delivers measurable benefit,
     independent of future increments.
11. Register Mission-Critical and Mission-Essential systems with           DoD IT Portfolio
                                                                                                           B, Update as required
     the DoD CIO. 3,5                                                      Repository
1
  The system documents/information cited are examples of the most likely but not the only references for the required
information. If other references are more appropriate, they may be used in addition to or instead of those cited. Include page(s)
and paragraph(s), where appropriate.
2
  These requirements are presumed to be satisfied for Weapons Systems with embedded IT and for Command and Control
Systems that are not themselves IT systems.
3
  These actions are also required to comply with section 811 of Reference (ag).
4
  For NSS, these requirements apply to the extent practicable (section 11103 of Reference (v))
5
  Definitions:
Mission-Critical Information System. A system that meets the definitions of ―information system‖ and ―national security
system‖ in the CCA (Reference (v)), the loss of which would cause the stoppage of warfighter operations or direct mission
support of warfighter operations. (The designation of mission critical shall be made by a Component Head, a Combatant
Commander, or their designee. A financial management IT system shall be considered a mission-critical IT system as defined
by the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)).) A ―Mission-Critical Information Technology System‖ has the
same meaning as a ―Mission-Critical Information System.‖
Mission-Essential Information System. A system that meets the definition of ―information system‖ in Reference (v), that the
acquiring Component Head or designee determines is basic and necessary for the accomplishment of the organizational
mission. (The designation of mission-essential shall be made by a Component Head, a Combatant Commander, or their
designee. A financial management IT system shall be considered a mission-essential IT system as defined by the USD(C).) A
―Mission-Essential Information Technology System‖ has the same meaning as a ―Mission-Essential Information System.‖

             3.2.2.1. The foundation of CCA compliance is built upon the use of existing
             documents, most of which were prepared at earlier stages of the program lifecycle
             development process. The supporting documents that a program lists in the
             Applicable Program Documentation (APD) column should be supplemented by
             information about where to find the particular paragraph(s), section(s), figure(s),
             and/or table(s) in the referenced document. Source documents should be provided to
             SAF/A6PP.
             3.2.2.2. If a program did not utilize a document cited as a proof of compliance in the
             Applicable Program Documentation column, it may cite other documents, actions, or
             events as proof of compliance. Examples of additional documents that may be used
             to confirm CCA compliance are listed in Attachment 4. Documents in draft form are
             acceptable at the start of the CCA reporting process but they should be finalized by
             the time the CCA Compliance Report is submitted for final approval.
             3.2.2.3. New documentation may also be needed when the (1) information in the
             original documentation needs to be updated or (2) original document did not
10                                                    AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


        adequately address the CCA requirement. If certification testing for certain CCA
        elements becomes available in the future, PMs should retain the certification
        certificates as proof of CCA compliance for such elements
     3.2.3. Report Preparation. In support of the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA), the
     Program Sponsor and the Program Manager (PM) shall ensure that the program has met
     the requirements of CCA. PMs or those responsible for preparing CCA Compliance
     Reports should become familiar with the statutory, regulatory, and milestone
     requirements for IT programs and IT-related investments in DoDI 5000.02, Enclosure 4.
     That enclosure lists the information requirements (statutory and regulatory) for all
     milestones and phases, for MAIS and MDAP acquisition programs, as well as those for
     ACAT II and below acquisition programs.
        3.2.3.1. MAJCOMs and HQ Functionals are encouraged to work with Program
        PMOs together to implement an efficient CCA reporting process to meet AF and
        DoD requirements. The MAJCOMs and HQ Functionals should follow the processes,
        procedures, and requirements described in this guidance document to assure that there
        is commonality among procedures and to ensure accurate and timely CCA reporting
        by their respective programs. Under such an approach, the MAJCOMs and HQ
        Functionals might be responsible for providing CCA reports and status to SAF/CIO
        A6. Formal staffing by the PMO, i.e., obtaining command signatures, is not required
        until a final version of the CCA Compliance Report is approved by SAF/A6PP. The
        MAJCOM should designate a CCA OPR as the single point of contact for
        coordination with SAF/A6PP. The MAJCOM CIOs will be a required signatory on
        all CCA final compliance report submissions to SAF/CIO A6.
     3.2.4. Scheduling. The PM should take into consideration the time required to obtain
     CCA confirmation of compliance when developing the project schedule, preparing
     program documentation, and approaching program milestones to ensure that obtaining
     CCA confirmation from the AF CIO’s office does not negatively impact program
     schedules. PMs and PMOs are encouraged to contact the CCA POC in SAF/A6P as early
     in the process as is possible before the next milestone review. In that way, the Program
     and SAF/A6P can develop an ongoing dialogue, increase and improve the opportunities
     for early feedback, and facilitate access to SAF/A6P’s SMEs for assistance in
     architecture and other areas. Programs are then encouraged to submit drafts of the CCA
     Compliance Report and supporting documentation to SAF/A6PP at least four months
     before the milestone review is scheduled to allow sufficient time for review and
     revisions. Submissions may be made by e-mail or CD-ROM to the SAF/A6PP CCA
     POC. A schedule should also be developed for the preparation of documents that directly
     support CCA compliance, such as the Information Assurance Strategy (IAS) and the
     Information Support Plan (ISP). Those documents often take much longer to prepare
     than four months so an appropriate amount of time should be set aside for their
     preparation. Although the IAS may be submitted for review at the same time as the CCA
     Compliance Report, the ISP should be submitted earlier as the ISP review process takes
     longer than the IAS or CCA Compliance Report review process. A program or system
     should be registered in Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR)
     before the CCA Compliance Report and IAS are submitted to SAF/A6PP.
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 11


     3.2.5. SAF/CIO A6 CCA Review Process. A single point of contact has been
     established in SAF/A6PP for CCA compliance and to facilitate the CCA review and
     avoid multiple taskings on the same documents. When a program’s draft CCA
     Compliance Report is ready for review, the program’s PM should notify SAF/A6PP POC
     that a draft CCA Compliance Report will be forthcoming and send the draft report to
     SAF/A6PP        at    the    CCA        Workflow      box     (SAF/A6P      Clinger-
     CohenWorkflow@pentagon.af.mil).
        3.2.5.1. After the program’s draft CCA Compliance Report and supporting
        documentation are received by SAF/A6PP, they will be reviewed by the Subject
        Matter Experts (SMEs) in architecture, finance, information assurance, and other
        areas. SAF/A6PP will consolidate the SMEs comments and send them to the PM if
        there are issues that require resolution. SAF/A6PP employs a rigorous, consistent,
        and repeatable review protocol that is conducted as quickly and comprehensively as
        possible. This process usually takes about two to three weeks for the review of a first
        draft CCA Compliance Report.
        3.2.5.2. SAF/A6PP will separately notify the program’s CCA POC when the IAS is
        approved. SAF/A6PP will provide the PM with a memorandum indicating SAF/CIO
        A6’s approval of the IAS. For MAIS and MDAP programs, the PM should send that
        approval memorandum and the approved IAS to DoD-CIO/NII in order to receive
        that office’s approval of the IAS.
        3.2.5.3. The desired outcome of the SAF/A6PP CCA review and approval process is
        a recommendation to the AF CIO that the program under review should be confirmed
        as CCA compliant. Therefore, SAF/A6PP will conduct as many reviews of the draft
        CCA Compliance Report as necessary until the document is ready for submission to
        the AF CIO. When SAF/A6PP has determined that the program is CCA compliant, it
        will request that the PMO formally resubmit the completed CCA Compliance Report
        to SAF/A6PP accompanied by a signature page that contains the required signatures
        (please see Figure 3.1, CCA Compliance Report Template).
     3.2.6. Notice of AF CIO Approval. SAF/A6PP will send the completed CCA
     Compliance Report, incorporating the signature page, to the AF CIO. If approved, the
     AF CIO will sign a memorandum confirming that the program is being developed in
     accordance with Subtitle III of Title 40/CCA and DoDI 5000.02. The signed approval
     memorandum will be sent to the Program’s PM or POC, regardless of ACAT, for
     submission to the MDA for milestone decisions or contract awards. As noted previously,
     DoD-CIO approval is not required.
  3.3. CCA Compliance Review Process for Air Force ACAT III Programs. CCA applies
  to all programs and systems in the three Mission Area Portfolios: Business Mission Area
  (BMA), Warfighting Mission Area (WMA), and Enterprise Information Environment
  Mission Area (EIEMA). As AF business systems in the BMA domain have undergone most
  of the non-ACAT CCA reviews among the three domains during the past two years, the
  discussion below utilizes those BMA programs for the purpose of clarity. WMA and
  EIEMA programs will undergo similar reviews in the near future.
     3.3.1. When DBSs (including those that are legacy systems; are in sustainment; or are
     characterized as mixed life-cycle by OMB, regardless of their initiation date) spend new
12                                                      AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


     monies on development, modernization, and enhancement (DME), the modernization
     activity is required to be CCA compliant. According to DoD Financial Management
     Regulation, Chapter 18, DME refers to any change or modification to an existing
     Information System (IS), program, and/or initiative that results in improved capability or
     performance of the baseline activity. Development/Modernization includes: (1) program
     costs for new applications and infrastructure capabilities that are planned or under
     development; (2) any change or modification to existing applications and infrastructure
     capabilities which is intended to result in improved capability or performance of the
     activity (these changes include (a) all modifications to existing operational software
     (other than corrective software maintenance); and (b) expansion of existing capabilities to
     new users); (3) changes mandated by Congress or the Office of the Secretary of Defense;
     and (4) personnel costs for Project Management.‖ For the purposes of CCA compliance,
     we focus on the use of any funds that are used for DME.
     3.3.2. Program Managers developing a new DBS should recognize that its program may
     be an ACAT program that needs to comply with the DBS certification review process
     contained within Enclosure 11; CCA compliance reporting as defined in Enclosure 5,
     DoDI 5000.02; other sections of DoDI 5000.02; and this guidance. It is expected that this
     will improve program development and management applications under the 5000 series.
     3.3.3. ACAT III business systems will report their CCA compliance to SAF/A6PP in
     conjunction with their certification/recertification reporting under the DBS certification
     review process. To demonstrate CCA compliance, business systems will report on their
     use of selected documents in the CCA Compliance Table (DoDI 5000.02, Enclosure 5,
     Table 8). These systems may use any of the documents cited in the Applicable Program
     Documentation column of the CCA Compliance Table as proof of compliance; if they did
     not use the documents listed in that column, they should cite the documents that were
     used to support the CCA element. Original reports, memoranda, spreadsheets, and
     architectural drawings may be used but the citation should be an original document, not a
     secondary source. For example, an answer to a question in EITDR is not an acceptable
     response. The supporting documents that a program lists in the Applicable Program
     Documentation column should be provided to SAF/A6PP. The CCA compliance table
     submitted by the business systems will be approved by SAF/A6PP.
     3.3.4. Although systems will not generally be asked to prepare new analyses, new
     drawings, or new documents, there may be some exceptions to that rule. In some of the
     areas where new documentation may be required, A6P has tried to develop requirements
     and templates that are more flexible than those imposed on ACAT I and II programs. For
     development of an Information Assurance Strategy (IAS) for programs that are
     modernizing, A6P provides a new IAS template that relies heavily on DoD Information
     Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) information. Systems will
     probably need to prepare an economic analysis similar to that discussed in section 4.7.
     SAF/FMC is developing a scaled down approach for systems under $1million; regardless,
     the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Economic Viability Tool (EVT) does
     not meet the EA requirement as it only contains a small subset of the information that is
     required in an EA (the EVT compares the net present value of the selected alternative
     against status quo and provides associated financial metrics but does not address the non-
     monetary impacts or provide the documentation that would be required for an economic
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   13


      analysis). For programs that do not need to prepare an ISP but need to demonstrate
      alignment to the Global Information Grid (GIG) and the use of proper architecture where
      existing architectural drawings are not compliant with policy, section 4.9.2. provides an
      alternate compliance approach.
      3.3.5. Tier 4 business systems are reviewed by appropriate authorities at the Functional
      levels for CCA and other governance requirements under the tiered accountability model
      utilized by the Air Force. In light of tiered accountability and to ensure consistency with
      CCA compliance for Tier 1, 2, and 3 business systems, the Functional Levels will have a
      new responsibility for assessing CCA compliance for Tier 4 business systems using the
      CCA Compliance Table in DoDI 5000.02, Enclosure 5. Functional Levels will report
      annually (at the end of each calendar year) to SAF/CIO A6 on the Tier 4 business
      systems that they reviewed and approved or disapproved as CCA compliant.
      3.3.6. A system or program in sustainment is one that spends O&M funds for continuing
      operations and current services, or sustainment-only activities. This type of system is not
      allocating or spending any funds on DME or for new capabilities, i.e., an activity that
      results in improved capability or performance of the baseline activity. OMB refers to
      these systems or programs as steady-state. The only reporting requirement for business
      systems in sustainment (usually Tier 5 systems) is that they be registered in EITDR.
   3.4. Streamlining Approaches. Although some CCA supporting documents can be
   subsumed into alternate acquisition documentation, the CCA Compliance Report, the IAS,
   and the ISP (or alternate documentation such as the section 4.9.2. report) must be provided to
   SAF/A6 CIO as stand-alone documents prepared in accordance with this guidance document
   and other specialized guidance documents.         SAF/CIO A6 will accept nontraditional
   documentation under the following circumstances (a) the program is undergoing an officially
   sanctioned streamlining approach; (b) the program has defined criteria or requirements for
   what will be included specifically in the streamlined document; and (c) SAF/CIO A6’s
   compliance criteria for a particular compliance element (where such criteria exists) must be
   met.
   3.4.1. Business Capability Lifecycle (BCL). On June 23, 2011, DoD-ATL issued
   ―Directive-Type Memorandum 11-009, Acquisition Policy for Defense Business Systems
   (DBS).‖ Those guidelines formally established the BCL model as the acquisition process
   for defense business systems. The BCL guidance provides the framework for structuring the
   definition, development, testing, production, deployment, and support of DBS. In most cases
   for DBSs, the BCL acquisition business model and guidance take precedence over applicable
   sections of DoDI 5000.02. DBS PMs are encouraged to read the BCL guidance, as it also
   addresses roles and responsibilities and issues related to document submission and oversight
   process. The BCL requirements in Table 4 (Attachment 8) are almost identical to those in
   Table 8 in DoDI 5000.02, Enclosure 5. Please pay particular attention to Attachments 3 and
   4 in the BCL guidance memorandum. Attachment 3 describes the statutory and regulatory
   requirements for DBSs. Attachment 8 addresses the IT considerations associated with DBSs.
4. CCA Compliance Elements.
   4.1. Describing the CCA Compliance Elements. This section provides guidance on how
   to address the 11 CCA compliance elements in the CCA Compliance Table (DoDI 5000.02,
   Enclosure 5, Table 8). Presented after the statement of each element are issues to be
14                                                     AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


  considered in complying with each element and likely sources of information and
  documentation for CCA compliance reporting. The same review standards are applied
  whether SAF/CIO A6 is reviewing a CCA Compliance Report or, for example, documents
  submitted in support of an AFRB and ASP.
  4.1.1. Three of the CCA elements in Table 8 are referenced with a footnote that states,
  "These requirements are presumed to be satisfied for Weapons Systems with embedded IT
  and for Command and Control Systems that are not themselves IT systems." Those words
  have been misinterpreted by some as meaning that the program under consideration could
  omit evidence of compliance. The footnote refers to an assumption that the CCA element for
  the subject system was addressed in an approved Joint Capabilities Integration and
  Development System (JCIDS) or acquisition document. Experience has shown that it is
  often the case that, especially with respect to outcome-based performance measures, the
  JCIDS or acquisition document was approved without addressing the CCA element. In those
  cases, the program may have to address that CCA element in order to be CCA compliant.
  4.1.2. There are several guidance documents and tools that will be of assistance in writing
  the compliance discussion for the 11 CCA elements:
         4.1.2.1. Defense Acquisition Guidebook (http://akss.dau.mil/DAG/welcome.asp) is
         helpful in addressing all 11 CCA elements and in providing specific information on
         CCA
         (https://akss.dau.mil/dag/DoD5000.asp?view=document&rf=GuideBook\IG_c7.8
         .asp).
         4.1.2.2. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01C,
         Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System.
         4.1.2.3. CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
         (CCA elements 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5).
         4.1.2.4. CJCSI 6212.01E Interoperability and Supportability of IT and National
         Security Systems.
         4.1.2.5. Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements
         Development (CCA elements 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7).
         4.1.2.6. AFI 63-101, Operation of Capabilities Based Acquisition System (CCA
         elements 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 10).
         4.1.2.7. Clinger-Cohen Act Compliance/Certification Community of Practice (CoP)
         site (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-AQ-AF-
         01) (contains authoritative sources and templates to aid in preparing a CCA
         Compliance Report).
  4.2. CCA Compliance Element 1. Make a determination that the acquisition supports
  core, priority functions of the Department.
     4.2.1. Summarize the results of the core mission analysis of the acquisition program.
     The summary will validate and document the rationale supporting the relationship
     between the AF's mission (i.e., core/priority functions) as documented in AF mission and
     strategy documents, and the function supported by the acquisition. Is the function that
     the proposed IT acquisition will support something the Federal government actually
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 15


     needs to perform; i.e., for the Department of Defense, is the function one that the
     Department of Defense and/or its Components must perform to accomplish the military
     missions or business processes of the Department?
     4.2.2. For the WMA and Enterprise Information Environment functions, this question is
     usually answered in the JCIDS process. At this time, the Program Sponsor should
     conduct a series of analyses (i.e., the Functional Area Analysis, Functional Needs
     Analysis, and Functional Solution Analysis). These analyses are normally completed
     before preparing an Initial Capabilities Document (ICD). The JCIDS analyses should
     demonstrate that the acquisition supports core/priority functions that should be performed
     by the Federal Government. Examples of a valid mission need include a combat or
     weapon system or an integral part of a weapons system, Joint operations in support of the
     warfighter, or designation as an NSS. The analysis should also establish linkages among
     the mission, the function supported, the capability gap, and potential solutions.
     4.2.3. The supporting documentation for this element is generally found in an approved
     ICD. DoD core/primary functions are documented in national strategies and DoD
     mission and strategy documents like the Quadrennial Defense Review, Strategic Planning
     Guidance, Joint Operating Concepts, Joint Functional Concepts, Integrated Architectures,
     the Business Enterprise Architecture, the Universal Joint Task List, mission area
     statements, or Service mission statements. Other potential sources include the Mission
     Need Statement (MNS), Operational Requirements Document (ORD) or Capability
     Development Document (CDD), and Analysis of Alternatives (AoA).
  4.3. CCA Compliance Element 2. Establish outcome-based performance measures
  linked to strategic goals.
     4.3.1. Outcome-based performance measures (OBPMs) assess the actual results, effects,
     contributions, accomplishments, or impacts of a program compared to its intended
     purpose. According to CJCSI 3170.01C, OBPMs are "measures designed to correspond
     to accomplishment of mission objectives and achievement of desired effects." In other
     words, OBPMs represent the mission outcomes that would fill the functional gap
     identified as the need for the program and would be used in justifying the program. They
     measure the ability of the delivered system to achieve a need, requirement, or capability
     previously identified by the user.
     4.3.2. OBPMs for capabilities needed by the WMA and EIEMA programs and would be
     developed during a Capabilities-based Assessment (CBA) and recorded in a validated
     ICD. In older programs, the OBPMs related to the achievement of a needed capability
     (rather than actual system performance) might be found in a MNS or an equivalent
     document. The Business Mission Area identifies outcome-based performance measures
     during the business case development process and records the approved measures in the
     business plan.
     4.3.3. The effective measurement of an IT investment’s contribution to agency
     accomplishments begins during the investment’s planning stage. There should be a
     statement in the program documentation about the desired outcome and how the program
     would develop and deploy the solution to achieve that outcome (an outcome is the
     resulting effect of an IT investment on an organization). The OBPMs should measure the
     value-added contribution of the IT investment to missions, goals, and objectives and
16                                                       AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


     provide a clear basis for assessing accomplishment and aiding decision-making. They
     are a measure of operational success that must be closely related to the objective of the
     mission or operation being evaluated.
     4.3.4. OBPMs for IT investments and processes should:
        4.3.4.1. Measure the capabilities that the system provides, not system performance.
        4.3.4.2. Be outcome-oriented and measurable (i.e., quantifiable), demonstrating the
        results (or lack thereof) for a particular system based on an established baseline.
        4.3.4.3. Be linked to the mission of the IT investment that they support.
        4.3.4.4. Be limited to a vital few, i.e., to only those absolutely necessary to provide
        the required data (If there are too many measures, organizations may become too
        intent on measurement and lose focus on improving results. A guiding principle may
        be to measure that which matters most.).
     4.3.4.5. Be determined prior to the selection of a particular alternative approach or
     contractor, be independent of any solution, and not specify system performance or
     criteria (i.e., the OBPM should be established before the Concept Decision that starts the
     acquisition process or at the pre-Milestone A stage and validated at Milestone A). If that
     has not occurred in an existing program, the OBPMs should be developed before
     Milestone B.
     4.3.4.6. Be measured by collecting performance data and comparing actual to projected
     performance from carrying out a program or activity, thereby determining an
     investment's efficiency and effectiveness in meeting cost, benefit, schedule, risk, mission,
     documentation, and performance objectives.
        4.3.4.7. Be supported by data that can be accurately and reliably collected.
        4.3.4.8. Be inclusive of both AF and enterprise performance benefits.
     4.3.5. Several examples of OBPMs might be helpful.
        4.3.5.1. Measuring the number of enemy submarines sunk or enemy tanks destroyed
        may be satisfactory OBPMs if the objective is to destroy such weapons systems.
        4.3.5.2. Measuring the reduction in operating or manpower costs or the replacement
        of multiple legacy systems with a new single system, or facilitating command
        decision-making.
        4.3.5.3. An outcome measure for a tornado warning system would be the number of
        lives saved and property damage averted.
        4.3.5.4. An outcome measure for a learning management system could be the
        increased competency of employees and increased mission readiness of an
        organization from its use.
     4.3.6. It is easy to confuse OBPMs with output measures. Outputs are defined as ―the
     level of activity that will be provided over a period of time, including a description of the
     characteristics (e.g., timeliness) established as standards for the activity.‖ The
     differences between OBPMs and output measures can be demonstrated using some of the
     earlier examples. In the case of tornado warning system, an output measure could be the
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  17


     measure of time between the warning and the tornado strike with a goal of increasing the
     warning time and reducing the number of false alarms. In the case of the learning
     management system, output measures could be the number of courses delivered on
     relevant topics, the number of those who pass the courses, or the number of instructors
     hired.
     4.3.7. When formulating OBPMs, it is important to differentiate between OBPMs, Key
     Performance Parameters (KPPs), and acquisition performance measures. KPPs are those
     attributes or characteristics of a system that are considered critical or essential to the
     development of an effective military capability and those attributes that make a
     significant contribution to the key characteristics as defined in the Joint Operations
     Concept. KPPs of the ORD/CDD/Capability Production Document (CPD) or the
     measures of performance found in a system Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP) are
     generally not OBPMs. These are derivatives of the mission/capability. Similarly,
     OBPMs are not acquisition performance measures that are found in the acquisition
     program baseline (APB) containing cost, schedule, and system-level performance goals
     and thresholds; Development Test and Evaluation Measures (measure conformance to
     contract); Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) Measures Title 10 USC Section 2399
     (or simulated employment, by typical users, of a system under realistic operational
     conditions); or Follow-on OT&E (verification of correction of deficiencies discovered
     earlier, tactics development, OT&E of block upgrades to the system, completion of
     OT&E of system support materiel (pubs, equipment, etc.), OT&E against emerging
     threat, and completion of deferred OT&E (other climates, unique modes of operation,
     etc.)). Those measures may be use to satisfy CCA Element #7.
     4.3.8. The OBPMs serve as the basis for developing the program’s Post-Implementation
     Report (see section 5.0).
     4.3.9. The best document to use to answer element #2 is an approved ICD. Other
     potential sources include the CDD; CPD; APB; Performance Measurement Plan; MNS;
     ORD; TEMP; Organizational Strategic Plan; Mission Area Performance Plan; Guide for
     Developing and Using IT Performance Measurements, Department of the Navy, Chief
     Information Officer (October 2001); and Capabilities-Based Assessment Users Guide,
     Version 2, Force Structure, Resources, and Assessments Directorate, JCS J8, December
     2006.
  4.4. CCA Compliance Element 3. Redesign the processes that the system supports to
  reduce costs, improve effectiveness and maximize the use of COTS technology.
     4.4.1. As information systems and networks have become more sophisticated and
     widespread, it has become imperative to ensure that those systems are maximized for cost
     reduction and performance improvement. Has the business process or mission function
     supported by the proposed acquisition has been designed (or redesigned) for optimum
     effectiveness and efficiency? The Program should revise its mission-related processes
     and administrative processes as appropriate before making significant investments in IT.
     4.4.2. Describe the actions taken to streamline, reengineer, or redesign existing processes
     to reduce costs, improve effectiveness, and maximize the use of Commercial Off-The-
     Shelf (COTS) technology that better support the organization’s mission. If the
     acquisition program supports a newly developed process, describe the development of the
18                                                       AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


     process (i.e., describe the current process, the need for change, and the benefits associated
     with that change). Among the items that should be considered are whether (a) the
     business process or mission function supported by the proposed acquisition has been
     designed for optimum effectiveness and efficiency; (b) if the work is done in a way that
     improves performance in meeting the program’s mission while reducing costs; and (c) the
     process be accomplished more efficiently by another federal organization, e.g., another
     Major Command (MAJCOM) or even another organization within the same MAJCOM?
     (this is similar to the question asked in CCA element #4).
     4.4.3. Describe the extent to which COTS/Government Off-the-Shelf (GOTS) hardware
     and software will be used to satisfy the system requirements. Programs should maximize
     the use of COTS/GOTS technologies or tailored versions of GOTS/COTS technologies in
     an effort to reduce cost, risk, and development time. In addition, in the absence of a total
     COTS solution, the program should endeavor to utilize COTS technology as part of an
     overall solution and approach to reducing costs, etc., while maintaining vision on any
     operational risks or second-order effects of using a product from a commercial vendor.
     4.4.4. The best document to use to answer element #3 is an approved ICD. Other major
     sources include the General Accountability Office (GAO) Business Process
     Reengineering Assessment Guide (GAO/AIMD-10.1.15, April 1997); and the following
     documents: Concept of Operations, AoA (FSA), CDD, CPD Acquisition Plan (AP),
     Business Case Analysis (BCA), MNS, and ORD.
  4.5. CCA Compliance Element 4. Determine that no Private Sector or Government
  source can better support the function.
     4.5.1. Must the acquisition be undertaken by the AF because it requires unique
     capabilities that are not found in the private sector or elsewhere in the public sector in a
     way that can support the function more effectively or at less cost? Identify sourcing
     determination and rationale; consider commercial, small business, and other Government
     agencies as potential sources.
     4.5.2. Depending on the project’s current milestone review, some questions to be
     considered are:
        4.5.2.1. Does the proposed investment in IT support core mission or inherently
        governmental functions that need to be or must be performed by the Government?
        4.5.2.2. Can the functions be accomplished more efficiently (reduced cost and/or
        improved effectiveness) by another federal organization?
        4.5.2.3. Does the proposed IT investment fall under OMB Circular A-76,
        Performance of Commercial Activities? (Outsourcing policy)
     4.5.3. Include in the narrative for this section a statement that clarifies whether there are
     other Federal Government, DoD, or AF entities performing the proposed function, or if
     the proposed function duplicates or overlaps with an existing function.
     4.5.4. The best document to use to answer element #4 is an approved Acquisition
     Strategy (AS), supported by an approved AoA. Another potential source is the Market
     Survey (if one has been performed).
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   19


  4.6. CCA Compliance Element 5. Conduct an analysis of alternatives.
     4.6.1. Summarize the discussion in the AoA that was conducted for the program. The
     AoA discussion should address the following:
        4.6.1.1. Whether the program prepared a thorough AoA and considered enough
        reasonable alternatives (at least two viable alternatives in addition to the current
        baseline [i.e., status quo])?
        4.6.1.2. The alternatives examined (including the pros and cons of each alternative).
        Discuss the methodology and criteria used to evaluate alternatives, and the risk-
        adjusted lifecycle cost/benefits estimates.
        4.6.1.3. Why the selected alternative was chosen and why the remaining alternatives
        were not chosen.
     4.6.2. A frequent question is whether an AoA should be updated prior to the program
     going through the milestone process. The answer depends upon whether the AoA was
     general enough to cover changes to the program occurring after the AoA was issued. An
     update is not required if the AoA was general enough; however, the PM should consider
     revising the AoA if it specified, for example, the use of software ABC V.1.0 and the
     contemplated contract and/or Milestone decision brief intends to procure software XYZ
     V.5.0.
     4.6.3. The best document to use to answer element #5 is an approved AoA. Use OMB
     Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission and Execution of the Budget, to determine the
     criteria to be used in the AoA and benefit/cost analysis. Another useful document is
     OMB’s Capital Planning Guide, especially Part 7, Section 300, Planning, budgeting,
     acquisition, and management of capital assets, and the Part 7 Supplement. Other
     potential sources include the Business Case Analysis, Trade Survey, and Cost and
     Operational Effectiveness Analysis (COEA).
  4.7. CCA Compliance Element 6. Conduct an economic analysis that includes a
  calculation of the return on investment; or for non-AIS programs, conduct a Life-Cycle
  Cost Estimate (LCCE).
     4.7.1. An Economic Analysis (EA) consists of a life-cycle cost and a benefits analysis
     and is a systematic approach to selecting the most efficient and cost effective strategy for
     satisfying a program’s need. The EA also supports the AoA by examining the monetary
     (costs, financial metrics) and non-monetary (benefits, risks) impacts of selecting an
     alternative. When supporting the AoA, the EA is a stand-alone document that describes
     the background behind the decision at hand, the expected requirements and performance
     for each alternative, and the rationale behind the analysis. An EA is required whenever a
     functional user or program office is procuring, modernizing, or upgrading a material
     solution.
     4.7.2. For AIS programs, briefly describe the economic analysis to include a calculation
     of the Return on Investment (ROI). Provide the current projected ROI for the preferred
     alternative. Does the ROI support the investment in the preferred alternative? Identify
     the elements that were considered in the ROI including mission improvements, resource
20                                                       AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


     savings, and qualitative mission benefits. If possible, for an incremental or evolutionary
     acquisition, provide an overall ROI for each increment.
     4.7.3. For non-AIS programs, briefly describe the program LCCE. The LCCE provides
     a structured accounting of all resources and associated cost elements required to develop,
     produce, deploy, and sustain a particular program. This entails identifying all cost
     elements that pertain to the program from initial concept all the way through operations,
     support, and disposal. The LCCE encompasses all past (or sunk), present, and future
     costs for every aspect of the program, regardless of funding source. The LCCE should
     represent a realistic appraisal of the level of cost most likely to be realized. The numbers,
     explanation, and justification associated with the Cost Analysis Requirements
     Descriptions (CARD) and other economic analyses should be sufficiently detailed and
     the calculations should be replicable based upon the information provided.
     4.7.4. The best documents to use to answer element #6 are an approved Economic
     Analysis with Return on Investment (EA w/ ROI) and the Program LCCE. Depending on
     the capability, an approved LCCE may be substituted. Please see DoDD 5000.4, Cost
     Analysis Improvement Group. The FM Center of Expertise also has a lot of good
     information on its website (www.saffm.hq.af.mil/coe).
  4.8. CCA Compliance Element 7. Develop clearly established measures and
  accountability for program progress.
     4.8.1. Describe the process reporting, tools, and metrics for measuring program progress
     and post-deployment evaluation to include cost, schedule, and technical performance.
     Are there clearly established measures and accountability for program progress? Are
     these measures linked to strategic goals? Describe how the performance measures are
     being applied for evaluation of mission accomplishment. Demonstrate how program
     control and MDA-level directions are being achieved.
     4.8.2. At milestone reviews, comparisons are made between the expected costs, risks,
     and benefits of earlier phases with the actual costs incurred, risks encountered, and
     benefits realized to date. Cost and schedule measures should be used as performance
     measures of program progress.
        4.8.2.1. Cost figures should reflect realistic cost estimates of the total program and/or
        increment. Budgeted amounts should never exceed the total cost thresholds (i.e.,
        maximum costs) in the APB.
        4.8.2.2. Schedule parameters should include, as a minimum, the projected dates for
        program initiation, other major decision points, and IOC.
        4.8.2.3. KPPs that measure program performance should be identified and linked to
        strategic DoD and AF goals, periodic program management reviews, and quarterly
        metrics reviews.
     4.8.3. Describe how the established roles and responsibilities for the organizations
     involved in the program ensure accountability for program progress. In that context,
     describe how the PMO manages to achieve its cost objectives and how contractors
     manage to achieve cost objectives.
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                              21


     4.8.4. The best document to use to answer element #7 is an approved AS. Other
     potential sources are an approved APB and an Earned Value Management System
     (EVMS).
  4.9. CCA Compliance Element 8. Ensure that the acquisition is consistent with the
  Global Information Grid policies and architecture, to include relevant standards.
     4.9.1. Information Support Plan (ISPs) will be presented at appropriate Milestone
     decision reviews as part of the approval to proceed. The ISP is defined in DoDI 4630.8
     and CJCSI 6212.01F, both of which require that an ISP be developed for all IT and NSS
     regardless of ACAT level to ensure net-centricity and compliance with the GIG. The ISP
     must also be developed for legacy systems undergoing a major modification. Additional
     guidance on ISP preparation and requirements at each milestone and review protocols
     may be found at the Information Support Plan CoP. The ISP provides graphic views that
     show the major elements/subsystems that make up the system being acquired, and how
     they fit together. The ISP describes the system's function, dependencies and interfaces
     with other IT and NSS systems.
     4.9.2. The PM should address the timing of ISP preparation early in the program
     development process. For a small program with few interfaces, it takes approximately
     six months to prepare an ISP for a Stage I (or initial) review. For most programs, ISP
     preparation for Stage 1 review can take up to one year. For very complex programs, such
     as a major fighter aircraft, it can take significantly longer to prepare the ISP.
     4.9.3. DoD has adopted a new Enhanced Information Support Plan (EISP) process
     focuses on ISP data as opposed to the ISP document. The ISP developer will no longer
     have to write a document that may or may not be consistent with the Defense Acquisition
     Guidebook (DAG). Instead, they will be asked to enter data into an EISP template that
     focuses on the core informational aspects of the program. The data will be entered into
     the EISP template via the Enhanced ISP Tool. Detailed information on the EISP Tool can
     be found on the ISP CoP. Under this new process, the responsibility of the Program
     Manager / Submitter is to create a program profile, build and/or modify an ISP using
     EISP Enterprise Service Version (ESV), declare GIG Technical Profiles (GTPs), create
     all required architectural views, and submit it as a data package for
     assessment/Interoperability and Supportability (I&S) certification.
     4.9.4. Existing ACAT I and II programs and new programs of any ACAT that do not
     have an ISP waiver must transmit information about the program’s compliance with GIG
     policies, interoperability and architecture through the ISP. The ISP should be
     summarized in this section of the CCA Compliance Report. Those programs must be
     compliant with GIG and AF policies on net-centricity when acquiring IT-enabled
     capabilities that must interoperate with other systems for mission success. Compliance
     with the GIG means that an IT-based initiative or an acquisition program throughout its
     lifecycle should:
        4.9.4.1. Meet the DoD Architecture Framework (DoDAF) requirements in producing
        integrated architectural products;
        4.9.4.2. Meet the GIG Technical Guidance (GTG) or DoD Information Technology
        Standards Registry (DISR) requirements in selecting technologies and standards;
22                                                        AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


        4.9.4.3. Meet the DoD Net-Centric Data Strategy requirements and intent;
        4.9.4.4. Explicitly address net-centricity and determine the program's net-centric
        correspondence to key net-centric criteria (e.g., concepts, processes, services,
        technologies, standards, and taxonomy from the DoD Information Enterprise
        Architecture [DoD IEA] in a description of which principles and rules from the DOD
        IEA were used in the design of the systems concept of operations for external
        interfaces.
        4.9.4.5. Describe the concept of operations that the system will use to exchange
        information using the DoD IEA's activities and concepts. This is driven by the CCA
        requirement to demonstrate that the IT elements of a system are aligned to the
        agency’s IT architecture (the DoD IEA is the surrogate for the GIG) and that business
        process reengineering (BPR) has been done to promote improvements in
        communications processes. Net-centric operations and warfare are the way the AF is
        facilitating BPR and the use of the DoD IEA principles and terminology demonstrates
        that concept. These practices must be demonstrated in a way that is defensible to
        OMB. At an OV level this concept of operations typically identifies the four ways to
        exchange information – person to person, point to point, linked, and networked or
        combination. If an internet protocol network like the Internet is used, then the
        architecture needs to address data repositories, services, etc. (i.e., the principles of the
        DoD IEA). This is typically in the Operational View-5 (OV-5) from architecture
        developed with DoDAF 1.5 or earlier and the OV-5b in DoDAF 2.0)(the system may
        use it own terminology for the concept of operations as long as they provide the
        mapping to the DOD IEA); and
        4.9.4.6. Use the Joint Common Systems Functional List (JCSFL) to describe the
        system’s high level functions so that they can be traceable to the Joint Capabilities
        Areas (JCAs), a requirement of JCIDS and link to missions for CCA.
     4.9.5. Existing ACAT III programs that have an existing interface or plan to have an
     interface but do not have an ISP or were granted an ISP waiver, and new programs that
     were granted an ISP waiver, must demonstrate their compliance with GIG policies and
     architecture by answering the 11 questions listed in Table 4.1 below and by providing all
     of the architectural views listed on the table. The answers to those questions need to
     define how well (a) others have to be able to get information to the system; (b) the system
     has been able to get the data to those that need it; and (c) how well the transport
     mechanisms for these exchanges need to perform. This should reflect joint operations in
     a net-centric environment. A complete listing of the architectural views required by
     JCIDS and the ISP can be found in the current CJCSI 6212.01.
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                               23


Table 4. 1 Architectural questions to be answered in the ISP
                                                              Architecture Standard Employed
                Questions to be Addressed                     Under DODAF Under DODAF
                                                               1.0 and 1.5           2.0
 1. What does the system need to do?                              OV-5            OV-5b
 2. Who has the information needed by the system and to                       OV-2 and OV-
                                                              OV-2 and OV-4
    whom does the system need to give information?                                  4
 3. How well do those exchanges need to be performed?             OV-3            OV-3
 4. When does the system need to have those
                                                                 OV-6c            OV-6c
    communications?
 5. Can the system understand those communications?               OV-7            DIV-2

 6. What systems have the information in them?                    SV-1            SV-1

 7. How is the system going to move the information?              SV-2            SV-2
                                                                               SV/SvcV-4
 8. What system characteristics are needed to support the     SV-4b and SV-
                                                                              and SV/SvcV-
    communications and what does the system need to do?             5
                                                                                    5
 9. What are the testable characteristics of those
     communications between systems at an Operational             SV-6            SV-6
     Test (OT) level?
 10. What are the data formats of the systems with which
                                                                 SV-11            DIV-3
     the system needs to exchange information?
 11. What specs and standards is the system using to assure                     StdV-1 and
                                                              TV-1 and TV-2
     the systems can interoperate?                                                StdV-2
      4.9.6. The data is independent of the framework in which it is presented. If a program
      does not have architecture or Net-Ready–Key Performance Parameters (NR-KPPs), the
      same questions in Table 4.1 need to be answered in order for SAF/CIO A6 to determine
      CCA and interoperability compliance. SAF/CIO A6P will utilize the checklist in
      Attachment 5 to assess the architecture for CCA compliance.
   4.10. CCA Compliance Element 9. Ensure that the program has an information
   assurance strategy that is consistent with DoD policies, standards and architectures, to
   include relevant standards.
      4.10.1. An IAS is required to address how IA will be implemented in an IT program.
      The IAS is appended to the Program Protection Plan (Document Streamlining - Program
      Protection Plan (PPP), July 18, 2011, Memorandum from Frank Kendall) after its
      approval by the Component CIO and DoD CIO. PMs should be aware that some sections
      previously contained in an IAS (e.g., IA threats, MAC level) were moved to the body of
      the PPP for document streamlining. The template for an IAS for programs other than
      ACAT III and Tier DBSs undergoing modernization, enhancement, or development is
      presented in Attachment 6. That IAS template also describes the information that is
      required on a milestone-by-milestone basis. A modified IAS template for ACAT III and
24                                                     AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


     Tier DBSs undergoing modernization, enhancement, or development is presented in
     Attachment 7.
     4.10.2. An IAS is not required for Material Development Decisions (MDD). An IAS
     developed in preparation for Milestone A will be more general and contain a lesser level
     of detail than an IAS submitted to support subsequent Milestone decisions. In
     consideration of the different levels of maturity relative to acquisition phases, and to
     encourage brevity and focus, the following page limitations are imposed for IA
     Strategies: Milestone A – 7 pages; Milestone B or C – 15 pages, Full Rate Production
     (FRP) or Full Deployment Decision (FDD) – 15 pages. Tables of contents, acronym
     lists, signature sheets and executive summaries are not required, but if included do not
     count against the page limitations.
     4.10.3. The PM in accordance with DoDI 8510.01 must assemble a Certification and
     Accreditation Team consisting of a Designated Accrediting Authority (DAA), Certifying
     Authority (CA), CA Representative, CA Agent, IA Manager (IAM), and User
     Representative. Roles and responsibilities are outlined in AFI 33-210, Air Force
     Certification and Accreditation Program. All systems except Space and Special-Access
     Program/Special Access Required (SAP/SAR) systems are certified by the Air Force
     Senior Information Assurance Officer. Space systems are certified and accredited by the
     AFSPC DAA and SAP/SAR systems are certified and accredited by SAF/AAZ.
     4.10.4. PMs should pay attention to IA issues in the early stage of a program. Examine
     program and system characteristics to determine whether compliance with DoDD 8500.1
     is recommended or required and whether an IAS is required. Programs that do not
     involve the use of IT in any form have no IA requirements. However, PMs should
     examine programs carefully because many programs have IT embedded in the product or
     its supporting equipment, such as automatic test equipment. Programs that include IT
     always have IA requirements, but these IA requirements may be satisfied through the
     normal system design and test regimen but are required to comply with DoDD 8500.01E
     if they are categorized as Automated Information System Application, Platform IT
     Interconnection, Enclave, Outsourced Based IT, or stand-alone system.
     4.10.5. Acquisitions that include Platform IT with no communications interconnection
     are not required to comply with DoDD 8500.1; however, such programs require an IAS if
     they are designated Mission Critical or Mission Essential. Acquisitions of platforms with
     network interconnections must comply with the IA requirements of DoDD 8500.1 and
     DoDI 8500.2. Programs that include IT and are designated Mission Critical or Mission
     Essential require an IAS without regard to the applicability of DoDD 8500.1. Whether an
     investment is categorized as a system or as Platform IT, both require an IA strategy. In
     accordance with DoDI 8500.2, the IAS for Platform IT with interconnection to an
     external system or network must specifically address IA protection for the
     interconnection points. Program Managers responsible for Platform IT with no
     interconnection to an external system or network should implement the IA guidance in
     DoDD 8500.1 and DoDI 8500.2.
     4.10.6. In the case of Family of Systems Acquisition Programs, the IASs for these
     programs may be written at a capstone level, focusing on the integration of IA
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                25


     requirements and controls, coordination of System Security boundaries, and ensuring IA
     resourcing for own and subordinate systems.
     4.10.7. The IA section of the CCA Compliance Report itself should describe how the
     program’s IA features comply with applicable DoD and AF policies, standards, and
     architectures, describe the program’s certification and accreditation approach, and
     include the dates that the IAS was approved by the AF CIO and the DoD CIO. Describe
     the security features, practices, procedures, and architecture of the system that mediate
     and enforce the DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
     (DIACAP). IA requirements should be addressed throughout the program life cycle and
     incorporated into program design activities.
     4.10.8. The requirements for an IAS (including NSS), appear in:
  1. DoDD 8500.1, Information Assurance (IA).

  2. DoDI 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation.

  3. DoDI 8580.1, Information Assurance in the Defense Acquisition System.

  4. DoDD 8100.01, Global Information Grid (GIG).

  5. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCSM) 6510.01, Defense-in-Depth: Information
     Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CND).

  6. DoD Acquisition Guidebook (The IA section of the Defense Acquisition Guidebook
     includes an ―IA Compliance Decision Tree‖ and an ―IA Compliance by Acquisition
     Program Type‖ table to help determine if an IAS is required.).

  7. Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Public Law (PL) 107-347.

  8. Information Assurance Technical Forum (IATF).

  9. AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance.

  10. AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management.

     4.10.9. All AF IASs must be approved by SAF/CIO A6. Upon approving the IAS,
     SAF/CIO A6 will take two actions: it will send to the program POC a memorandum
     indicating that the program’s IAS is approved by SAF/CIO A6 and direct the program’s
     POC to forward the memorandum and approved IAS to NII/DoD-CIO for its review and
     approval. NII/DoD-CIO approves IASs for all MAISs and MDAPs. The IASs for space
     programs must be approved by the AFSPC CIO prior to submission to SAF/CIO A6.
     4.10.10. The best document to use to answer element #9 is an approved IAS. Other
     potential sources include DIACAP guidance; CJCSI 6212.01E, Interoperability and
     Supportability of Information Technology and National Security Systems; System
     Security Authorization Agreement (SSAA), Program Protection Plan, System Security
     Policy document, and System Security Plan.
26                                                      AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


  4.11. CCA Compliance Element 10. Ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, (1)
  modular contracting has been used, and (2) the program is being implemented in
  phased, successive increments, each of which meets part of the mission need and
  delivers measurable benefit, independent of future increments.
     4.11.1. Describe the extent to which modular contracting principles are adhered. Under
     modular contracting, a system is acquired in successive acquisitions of interoperable
     increments that allow for the following: easier to manage, address complex IT
     objectives, not dependent of subsequent increments, take advantage of technology
     advancements and reduces risk through avoidance of custom-designed components.
     Describe the relationship between each increment and the mission need and benefit
     associated with that increment. CCA is concerned with modular contracting to ensure
     that each increment complies with common or commercially acceptable standards
     applicable to IT so that the increments are compatible with the other increments of IT
     comprising the system or systems.
     4.11.2. Program schedule and milestones reflect phased successive implementation
     approaches. Each increment results in stand-alone functional capability; development in
     iterations or spiral development methodology, phased implementations, use of multiple
     contracts, and identification of ―usable assets.‖
     4.11.3. OMB Memoranda M-10-26 (―Immediate Review of Financial Systems IT
     Projects‖June 28, 2010) recommends that agencies split projects into smaller, simpler
     segments with clear deliverables. Project segments should generally take no longer than
     90 -120 days to achieve specific project milestones. Although all specific milestones
     may not deliver functionality, all such milestones must support the delivery of well
     defined functionality.      This approach simplifies planning, development, project
     management and oversight, and training. It reduces risk and allows changes in technology
     to be incorporated into later phases at lower costs.
     4.11.4. For the AS, please identify the following items:
        4.11.4.1. Was the contract competitively awarded? If not, please explain why with
        ample justification. How has the government ensured a "full and open" competition
        process as part of the AS? If a sole source or limited competition is utilized, has the
        project conducted or made available the studies, reviews, and documents that provide
        ample documentation that full and open is not viable? Would the justification
        provided by the project meet any criteria set down by the Air Force’s Competition
        Advocate (such as the acquisition of critical intellectual property or data rights)?
        4.11.4.2. Is the contract performance-based?
        4.11.4.3. Is earned value management built into the contract? If not, why not?
        4.11.4.4. Does the contract include the required security and privacy clauses (e.g.,
        Privacy Act of 1974, 5 USC Section 552a and OMB Circular No. A-130, Attachment
        I)?
        4.11.4.5. Is there an acquisition plan that has been approved in accordance with Air
        Force requirements? If yes, when was it approved? If not approved, why has it not
        been approved?
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    27


      4.11.5. The best document to use to answer element #10 is an approved AS. Other
      potential sources of information include the AP and the ORD.
   4.12. CCA Compliance Element 11. Register Mission-Critical and Mission-Essential
   systems with the DoD CIO.
      4.12.1. EITDR is the AF system of record for IT management data, and it serves as the
      single AF repository for AF IT initiative/system information to share data across all AF
      IT management processes. EITDR is migrated to the DoD Information Technology
      Portfolio Repository (DITPR) as its system of record.
      4.12.2. PMs are responsible for ensuring that their program is registered in EITDR and
      that the information in EITDR is complete, current, and accurate. In order to register an
      IT program in EITDR, user access must first be established. To obtain access to EITDR,
      IT program personnel must complete DD Form 2875. The required forms, user guides,
      and additional information on the registration process may be found on the EITDR CoP
      located                                                                                 at
      https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/asps/DocMan/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-TR-
      MC-16-34-1&Filter=OO-TR-MC-16.
      4.12.3. Once access is established and the registration process begins, there are several
      basic sets of registration and reporting requirements that must be followed. All programs
      must follow the ―Basic Registration‖ filter that addresses basic program information such
      as name of the program, certification and accreditation (C&A) Status, and project
      description in order to be assigned an EITDR Registration Number. Depending upon the
      nature of the program being registered, one might have to address other filters such as
      FISMA, ISP, and Section 508.
      4.12.4. Completion of questions in the CCA filter documents basic information about a
      program including ―Does this investment acquire Information Technology (IT)?‖,
      ―What Acquisition Category or Tier is your program?‖, and ―Please identify the
      milestone schedule for your program, denoting current milestones and the dates for the
      milestones already attained and for future milestones.‖
      4.12.5. After a program has been approved as CCA compliant, SAF/A6PP will enter the
      approved CCA memorandum or e-mail into EITDR.
5. Post-Implementation Reviews.
   5.1. There are multiple statutory and regulatory requirements for a performance and results-
   based management and reporting. At present, DoD Instruction 5000.02 (Enclosure 4, Tables
   2-1 and 2-2) requires a Post-Implementation Review (PIR) for MAIS, MDAP, and ACAT II
   and below acquisition programs at the Full-Rate Production Decision Review/Full-
   Deployment Decision Review (FRPDR/FDDR). The tables cite the following as their
   justification: Paragraph (a)(5) of Section 1115 of title 31, U.S.C., and Section 11313 of Title
   40 (formerly the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996). The rewrite of DoDI 5000.02 may limit PIR
   reviews to MAIS programs only.
   5.2. Additional regulatory requirements are found in OMB rules as well. OMB Circular
   No.A-11, Part 7 requires that agencies ―conduct post-implementation or post-occupancy
   reviews of capital programming and acquisition processes, and projects to validate estimated
28                                                       AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


  benefits and costs, and document effective management practices, i.e., lessons learned, for
  broader use.‖ OMB Circular A-130 (Revised) that requires agencies, as part of their
  evaluation of their capital planning process, to ―conduct post-implementation reviews of
  information systems and information resource management processes to validate estimated
  benefits and costs, and document effective management practices for broader use.‖ OMB
  Circular A-130 also directs agencies to ―document lessons learned from the post-
  implementation reviews. Redesign oversight mechanisms and performance levels to
  incorporate acquired knowledge.‖
  5.3. The development of OBPMs is a first step towards development of the PIR (see section
  4.3). After a program is deployed, a PIR is conducted to assess whether the needed mission
  effects were met and whether the functional gap was filled by the materiel solution selected
  by the capability/mission/program owner. The PIR should answer the question, ―Did we
  (i.e., the Service or program) get what it needed and, if not, what should be done?‖ It is
  conducted to determine how accurately the program met its performance and cost objectives,
  expected benefits, and strategic goals of the Air Force. It is an important diagnostic tool for
  measuring the success of a particular acquisition or investment.
  5.4. The PIR looks at the contribution made by all the elements of doctrine, organization,
  training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities (DOTMLPF) toward
  achievement of the needed capability, including return on investment. For example, the
  system may be fully functional but if the doctrine does not reflect the capability, or the
  leadership has not been educated in the exploitation of the capability, then the selected
  OBPMs should reveal such shortcomings.
  5.5. The PIR compares actual system performance to program expectations and mission
  realities based upon the operational environment and the Concept of Operations (CONOPS).
  The PIR evaluates the project's benefit-cost and risk analyses, and the projected benefits to
  mission accomplishment and the proposed performance measures for comparing expected
  versus actual results.
  5.6. The PIR should identify the gaps that current investments are not meeting and thereby
  influence future investment decisions or adjustments to the next increment of the program
  being analyzed. If the expected benefits are not being achieved, AF management must
  decide whether to terminate the project; initiate any changes or modifications to the project
  that may be needed; or leave the project unchanged.
  5.7. After the OBPMs have been developed, there are four activities that are part of a
  successful PIR implementation.
     5.7.1. Plan the PIR. A draft PIR plan is developed and then submitted to the Title
     40/CCA Action Officer at MS B, and a final PIR plan is due at the last acquisition
     milestone – FRPDR/FDDR. When planning the PIR, consider topics such as timing,
     identification of scope and stakeholders, and identification of information sources.
     5.7.2. Conduct the PIR. The PIR should be carried out according to the PIR planning
     that was reviewed and approved at the FRPDR/FDDR. This activity involves collecting
     measurement data, performing measurement analysis, and presenting the results so that
     the results of the PIR can be used to make decisions. Analysis, in the form of
     quantitative and qualitative indicators against the OBPMs, should be based on answering
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 29


     the question, "Did we get what we needed?" Data collection techniques will vary
     according to circumstance, but may include surveys, interviews, observations document
     analysis, and focus groups. Background material can include feasibility studies, value
     management reports, cost plans, field reports, etc.
     5.7.3. Analyze the Results. The PIR should assess the extent to which the DoD's
     investment decision-making processes were able to capture the warfighter's initial intent.
     The PIR should also address, if possible, whether the warfighter's needs changed during
     the time the system was being acquired. The outputs of the analysis become the PIR
     findings. The findings should clearly identify the extent to which the warfighters got
     what they needed.
     5.7.4. Prepare a Report and Provide Recommendations. Based on the PIR findings, the
     PIR team prepares a report and makes recommendations that can be fed back into the
     capabilities and business needs processes. The primary recipient of the PIR report is the
     Sponsor who articulated the original objectives and outcome-based performance
     measures on which the program or investment was based. The results of the PIR can aid
     in refining requirements for subsequent increments. Recommendations may be made to
     correct errors, improve user satisfaction, or improve system performance to better match
     warfighter/business needs. The PIR team should also determine whether different or
     more appropriate OBPMs can be developed to enhance the assessment of future spirals or
     similar IT investment projects.
  5.8. A draft PIR plan should be submitted for review at milestone B, and a final PIR plan is
  due at the last acquisition milestone – Milestone C, Full Rate Production Decision Review
  (FRPDR), and Full Deployment Decision Review (FDDR). Programs should prepare the
  PIR if they are in the post-milestone C phase for a MAIS or MDAP program, assuming that
  the program has been fielded and is operational in its intended environment and does not
  have a future milestone. Such programs are in the sustainment phase, meaning they are not
  spending any funds on enhancement, development, or modernization. The PIR itself is held
  after Initial Operational Capability (IOC) but prior to Full Operational Capability (FOC).
  The PIR is also referred to as a Post-Deployment Review (PDR) in DoD and Department of
  the Navy (DoN) CIO documents.
  5.9. When planning the PIR, consider the following factors: timing of the PIR, identification
  of scope and stakeholders, team composition, and identification of information sources. The
  different PIR documents may be submitted separately from the CCA Compliance Report.
  5.10. The PIR does not have to be a single event or test. It is a sequence of activities that
  when combined, provide the necessary information to successfully compare actual system
  performance to program expectations. In some cases, these activities can take place over a
  long period of time. Some activities measurable for the PIR may be accomplished in the
  context of typical program acquisition activities or system operational processes.




                                          MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Chief, Information Dominance and
                                          Chief Information Officer
 30                                                     AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, 3 August 2011
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 12 July 2010
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation Program, 23 December 2008
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
CJCSI 3170.01C, Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1
May 2007
CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), 1 March
2009
CJCSI 6212.01E Interoperability and Supportability of IT and National Security Systems, 15
December 2008
Clinger-Cohen Act Compliance/Certification Community of Practice (CoP) site
Clinger Cohen Act of 1996 and Related Documents, DoD, May 2000 (the ―Purple Book‖)
Defense Acquisition Guidebook
DoD Chief Information Officer – Laws, Regulations, and Policies, 2009 Edition
DoDD 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National
Security System (NSS), 5 May 2004
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May
2003
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February
2009
DoDD 8100.01, Global Information Grid (GIG), 8 February 2009
DoDD 8500.1, Information Assurance (IA), 24 October 2002
DoDD 8500.01E, Information Assurance (IA), 24 October 2002
DoDI 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation, 6 February 2003
DoDI 8580.1, Information Assurance in the Defense Acquisition System;
DTM 09-025, Space Systems Acquisition Process
DTM 11-009, Acquisition Policy for Defense Business Systems (DBS), June 23, 2011
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), PL 107-347
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 31


Information Technology Management Reform Act, Division E, PL 104-106
Information Technology: Additional Responsibilities of Chief Information Officers, 10 USC
Section 2223
National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), multiple years
Paperwork Reduction Act, PL 104-13 (as amended)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AFRB—Air Force Review Board
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Document
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
AP—Acquisition Plan
APB—Acquisition Program Baseline
APD—Applicable Program Documentation
AS—Acquisition Strategy
ASP—Acquisition Strategy Panel
ATO—Authority to Operate
BCA—Business Case Analysis
BCL—Business Capability Lifecycle
BMA—Business Mission Area
BPR—Business Process Reengineering
BTA—Business Transformation Agency
C&A—Certification and Accreditation
CA—Certifying Authority
CAIG—Cost Analysis Improvement Group
CARD—Cost Analysis Requirements Descriptions
CBA—Capabilities Based Assessment
CCA—Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996
CCACR—Clinger-Cohen Act Compliance Report
CD—ROM—Compact Disk-Read Only Memory
 32                                                       AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


CDD—Capability Development Document
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
CND—Computer Network Defense
CONOPS—Concepts of Operations
COTS—Commercial-Off-the-Shelf
CPD—Capability Production Document
DAA—Designated Accreditation Authority
DBS—Defense Business System
DBSMC—Defense Business Systems Management Committee
DIACAP—DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
DIMA—Defense Intelligence Mission Area
DISR—DoD Information Technology Standards Registry
DITPR—DoD Information Technology Portfolio Repository
DME—development, modernization and enhancement
DoD—Department of Defense
DOD IEA—DOD Information Enterprise Architecture
DoDAF—DoD Architecture Framework
DoDD—DoD Directive
DoDI—DoD Instruction
DoN—Department of the Navy
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel
and Facilities
DTM—Directive-Type Memorandum
EA—Economic Analysis
EIEMA—Enterprise Information Environment Mission Area
EITDR—Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository
EVMS—Earned Value Management System
EVT—Economic Viability Tool
FISMA—Federal Information Security Management Act
FOC—Full Operating Capability
FDD—Full Deployment Decision
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                   33


FDDR—Full Deployment Decision Review
FRPD—Full Rate Production Decision
FRPDR—Full Rate Production Decision Review
GAO—General Accountability Office
GIG—Global Information Grid
GOTS—Government Off-the-Shelf
GTG—GIG Technical Guidance
IAS—Information Assurance Strategy
IAM—Information Assurance Manager
IATF—Information Assurance Technical Forum
IATO—Interim Authority to Operate
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
IER—Information Exchange Requirements
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
IRB—Investment Review Board
IS—Information System
ISP—Information Support Plan
IT—Information Technology
ITA—Information Technology Architecture
JCA—Joint Capabilities Areas
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JCSFL—Joint Common Systems Functional List
KPP—Key Performance Parameter
LCCE—Life-Cycle Cost Estimate
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
MAC—Mission Assurance Category
MAIS—Major Automated Information Systems
MAJCOM——Major Command
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Programs
MDD—Material Development Decision
MNS—Mission Need Statement
 34                                                       AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


MOE—Measures of Effectiveness
NCOW-RM—Net-Centric Operations and Warfare Reference Model
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
NR-KPP—Net-Ready–Key Performance Parameter
NSS—National Security Systems
OBPM—Outcome-Based Performance Measures
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORD—Operational Requirements Document
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
OV—Operational View
PDR—Post-Deployment Review
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PIR—Post-Implementation Review
PM—Program Manager
PMO—Program Management Office
PPP—Program Protection Plan
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROI—Return on Investment
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAP/SAR—Special Access Program/Special Access Required
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SSAA—System Security Authorization Agreement
SSAP—Space Systems Acquisition Process
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
USAF—United States Air Force
WMA—Warfighting Mission Area

Terms
Defense Business System—An information system, other than a national security system,
operated by, for, or on behalf of the Department of Defense, including financial systems, mixed
systems, financial data feeder systems, and information technology and IA infrastructure, used to
support business activities, such as acquisition, financial management, logistics, strategic
planning and budgeting, installations and environment, and human resource management.
(National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2012, as amended, 10 USC 2222(j)(1).
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                      35


Global Information Grid—The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information
capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel. The GIG includes all owned and leased communications and computing systems and
services, software (including applications), data, security services, other associated services, and
National Security Systems (NSS). (DoDD 8100.01).
National Security System—Any information system (including any telecommunications
system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on
behalf of an agency, the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities;
involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of
military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system, is
critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions. This does not include a
system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications (including payroll,
finance, logistics, and personnel management applications); or is protected at all times by
procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria
established by an Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of
national defense or foreign policy. (DoDD 8000.01, February 10, 2009).
Net-Ready Key Performance Parameters—Assess the information needs, information
timelines, information assurance, and net-ready attributes required for both the technical
exchange of information and the end-to-end operational effectiveness of that exchange. The NR-
KPP is comprised of the following elements: compliance with the NCOW-RM; compliance with
applicable GIG key interface profiles; verification of compliance with the DoD IEA
requirements; and supporting integrated architecture products required to assess information
exchange for a given capability. (CJCSI 3170.01E).
 36                                                        AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


                                          Attachment 2
                              EXCERPT FROM DODI 5000.02,
                              ENCLOSURE 5, SECTIONS 1 – 3

                                     IT CONSIDERATIONS

1. CLINGER-COHEN ACT (CCA) COMPLIANCE. Subtitle III of Reference (v) (formerly
known as Division E of CCA) (hereinafter referred to as ―Title 40/CCA‖) applies to all IT
investments, including NSS.
a. For all programs that acquire IT, including an NSS, at any ACAT level, the MDA shall not
initiate a program or an increment of a program, or approve entry into any phase of the
acquisition process; and the DoD Component shall not award a contract until:

(1) The sponsoring DoD Component or PM has satisfied the requirements of Title 40/CCA;

(2) The DoD Component CIO, or designee, confirms Title 40/CCA compliance; and

(3) For MDAPs and MAIS programs only, the DoD CIO also confirms Title 40/CCA
compliance.

b. The Title 40/CCA requirements identified in Table 8 of this enclosure shall be satisfied to the
maximum extent practicable through documentation developed under the JCIDS and the Defense
Acquisition System. The DoD Component Requirements Authority, in conjunction with the
Acquisition Community, is accountable for actions 1-5 in Table 8; the PM is accountable for
actions 6-11. The PM shall prepare a table similar to Table 8 to indicate which documents
(including page and paragraph) correspond to the Title 40/CCA requirements. CIOs shall use the
documents cited in the table prepared by the PM to assess and confirm Title 40/CCA
compliance.

c. The OIPT shall resolve issues related to compliance for MAIS programs and MDAPs. The
IRB shall resolve issues related to compliance for MAIS and MDAP defense business systems.
Reference (f) has more information supporting Title 40/CCA compliance.

2. TIME-CERTAIN ACQUISITION OF AN IT BUSINESS SYSTEM. Before providing
Milestone A approval for an IT business system, the MDA shall determine that the system will
achieve IOC within five years (section 811 of P.L. 109-364 (Reference (az))). This MDA
determination is not required for NSS, but is required for AIS defense business systems,
including those that are also MAIS or MDAP.

3. DEFENSE BUSINESS SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (DBSMC)
CERTIFICATION APPROVAL. For defense business system acquisition programs that have
modernization funding exceeding $1,000,000, the MDA shall not grant any milestone or full-rate
production approval or their equivalent, and the authority to obligate funding shall not be granted
until the certification under paragraph (a) of section 2222 of Reference (k) has been approved by
the DBSMC (see Enclosure 11).
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                                                37


                                                     Attachment 3
                        DESCRIPTION AND DECISION AUTHORITY FOR
                                 ACAT I – III PROGRAMS

                                    (DODI 5000.02, Enclosure 3, Table 1)

 Acquisition
                                       Reason for ACAT Designation                                  Decision Authority
  Category
 ACAT I           1. MDAP (section 2430 of Reference (k))                                             ACAT ID:
                      1. Dollar value: estimated by the USD(AT&L) to require an eventual total USD(AT&L)
                  expenditure for research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) of more than
                  $365 million in fiscal year (FY) 2000 constant dollars or, for procurement, of ACAT IC: Head of the
                  more than $2.190 billion in FY 2000 constant dollars                                DoD Component or, if
                      2. MDA designation                                                              delegated, the CAE
                  1. MDA designation as special interest                                              (not further delegable)
 ACAT IA1, 2 1. MAIS (Chapter 144A of Reference (k)): A DoD acquisition program for an ACAT IAM:
                  Automated Information System3 (either as a product or a service) that is either:    USD(AT&L) or
                      1. Designated by the MDA as a MAIS; or                                          designee
                      2. Estimated to exceed:
                          a. $32 million in FY 2000 constant dollars for all expenditures, for all ACAT IAC: Head of
                  increments, regardless of the appropriation or fund source, directly related to the the DoD Component
                  AIS definition, design, development, and deployment, and incurred in any single or, if delegated, the
                  fiscal year; or                                                                     CAE (not further
                          b. $126 million in FY 2000 constant dollars for all expenditures, for all delegable)
                  increments, regardless of the appropriation or fund source, directly related to the
                  AIS definition, design, development, and deployment, and incurred from the
                  beginning of the Materiel Solution Analysis Phase through deployment at all sites;
                  or
                          c. $378 million in FY 2000 constant dollars for all expenditures, for all
                  increments, regardless of the appropriation or fund source, directly related to the
                  AIS definition, design, development, deployment, operations and maintenance,
                  and incurred from the beginning of the Materiel Solution Analysis Phase through
                  sustainment for the estimated useful life of the system.
                  3. MDA designation as special interest
 ACAT II          1. Does not meet criteria for ACAT I                                                CAE or the individual
                  2. Major system                                                                     designated by the
                      a. Dollar value: estimated by the DoD Component Head to require an CAE4
                  eventual total expenditure for RDT&E of more than $140 million in FY 2000
                  constant dollars, or for procurement of more than $660 million in FY 2000
                  constant dollars (section 2302d of Reference (k))
                      b. MDA designation4 (paragraph (5) of section 2302 of Reference (k))
 ACAT III         1. Does not meet criteria for ACAT II or above                                      Designated by the
                  2. AIS that is not a MAIS                                                           CAE4
1. In some cases, an ACAT IA program, as defined above, also meets the definition of an MDAP. The USD (AT&L) shall
be the MDA for such programs unless delegated to a DoD Component. The statutory requirements that apply to MDAPs and
MAIS shall apply to such programs.
2. The MDA (either the USD (AT&L) or, if delegated, the ASD (NII)/DoD CIO or another designee) shall designate MAIS
programs as ACAT IAM or ACAT IAC. MAIS programs shall not be designated as ACAT II.
3. Automated Information System: A system of computer hardware, computer software, data or telecommunications that
performs functions such as collecting, processing, storing, transmitting, and displaying information. Excluded are computer
resources, both hardware and software, that are:
        a. an integral part of a weapon or weapon system;
        b. used for highly sensitive classified programs (as determined by the Secretary of Defense);
        c. used for other highly sensitive information technology programs (as determined by the ASD(NII)/DoD CIO); or
        d. determined by the USD(AT&L) or designee to be better overseen as a non-AIS program (e.g., a program with a low
ratio of RDT&E funding to total program acquisition costs or that requires significant hardware development).
4. As delegated by the Secretary of Defense or Secretary of the Military Department.
38                                                              AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


                                             Attachment 4
                       TYPICAL EVIDENCE OF CCA COMPLIANCE
                             BY PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                            (From DoDI 5000.02, Enclosures 4 and 5)

                                                                      Title 40/
                        Program Document                                            Typical
                                                                        CCA
      (signed documents must be provided as evidence of compliance)                Milestone
                                                                      Elements
     Acquisition Program Baseline (APB) {Net-Ready KPP}                 2, 7, 8        B
     Acquisition Strategy (AS)                                         4, 7, 10
     Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)                                     3, 4, 5     A, B, C
     Capability Development Document (CDD)                               2, 3          B
     Capability Production Document (CPD)                                2, 3          C
     Certificate of Interoperability                                       8         B, C
     Certificate of Supportability                                         8         B, C
     Concepts of Operations (CONOPS)                                       3         A, B
     Economic Analysis with Return on Investment (EA w/
                                                                          6       A, B, C, FRP
     ROI)
     Program Office Estimate (POE) or
                                                                          6        B, C, FRP
     Life-cycle Cost Estimate (LCCE)
     Independent Life-cycle Cost Estimate                                 6        B, C, FRP
     (N/A for AIS)

     Component Life-cycle Cost Estimate/Army Cost                         6
     Position
     (MAIS and ACAT IC programs)
     Cost Analysis Requirements Description (CARD)
                                                                          6        B, C, FRP
     (MDAPs only)
     EITDR number (EITDR updates into DITPR)                              11            B
     Information Assurance Strategy (IAS)                                  9      A, B, C, FRP
     Information Support Plan (ISP) {Net-Ready KPP}                        8          B, C
     Initial Capabilities Document (ICD), {MNS, ORD}                    1, 2, 3      A, B, C
     Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP)                                 4, 7, 10         B
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                      39


                                        Attachment 5
       ARCHITECTURE ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST FOR CCA COMPLIANCE

           ISSUE                                        EXPLANATION
                                Does the system fit within the general construct of the
1. Is the system consistent
                                CONOPS they say they support? Does it fit within the
   with the applicable Air
                                command and control construct of the CONOPS? For example,
   Force CONOPS?
                                can the system operate from austere bases if called for, etc.?
                                The system architecture describes the activities to be performed
                                and an analysis is done to determine if the systems functions
2. Is the architecture of the
                                supports the AFEA construct. An essential element of this is
   system consistent with the
                                whether the architecture was developed and contains the
   Air Force Enterprise
                                applicable portions of the DoD IEA or NCOW-RM. Net-
   Architecture?
                                centric operations and communications are essential elements of
                                the AFEA and the GIG and should be reflected in the
                                architecture.
3. Is the CONOPS of the         Is how the system will be used consistent with current USAF
   system consistent with the   policy? For example, rescue systems are not supposed to
   Air Force CONOPS?            deploy without top cover.
                                The functions the architecture outlines should be aligned with
                                the written CONOPS of the system. For example, if the
4. Is the architecture of the   architecture describes air refueling so should the system
   system consistent with the   CONOPS. This is based on an understanding of the system
   system CONOPS?               architecture, primarily the OV-5 from architecture developed
                                with DoDAF 1.5 or earlier and the OV-5b in DODAF 2.0, and
                                system CONOPS as stated in the JCIDS document or ISP.
5. Is the architecture of the
   system consistent with the
   stated/approved
                                If a change is being proposed to the system, is it within the
   requirements from the Air
                                bounds of the AFROCC approved JCIDS documents?
   Force Requirements for
   Operational Capability
   Council (AFROCC)?
6. Is the architecture of the   Is the architectural functional decomposition logical? Are the
   system syntactically         architecture products logically related and traceable between
   correct?                     views?
7. Does the architecture of
   the system meet the stated   Is the architecture aligned with or use the architectural
   legal requirements of the    constructs of guiding higher level architectures (BEA, DoD
   acquisition process? Are     IEA, NCOW-RM, etc.)? CJCSI 3170.01 defines the required
   the right architecture       views for each milestone. Are they there and do they contain
   products available when      the required data?
   required?
8. Are the Key Performance      The architecture is used to define the systems interface points.
   Parameters (KPPs)            For architectural documents produced prior to June 2009, the
 40                                                       AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


   answered consistent with     Key Interfaces are defined by the GIG KIPs, and then they are
   the architecture and         documented in the KIP table in the Net-Ready Key Performance
   CONOPS of the system?        Parameters (NR-KPPs). For architectural products produced
   Can the key interfaces       after June 2009, these interfaces are found in the ―Technical
   associated with the Key      Standards/Interfaces‖ element of the GTG. These interfaces
   Interface Profiles (KIPs)    should also match those in the system’s CONOPS.
   be found within the
   architectural products?      If built properly, the architecture contains enough data to define
                                the net-centric characteristics the system needs to achieve its
                                required mission. This culminates in the System View-6 (SV-6)
                                that describes the required systems interfaces and the data and
                                quality of service need. This is used to create the development
                                and operational test plans used by the contractor, AF testers,
                                and the Joint Interoperability Test Command. These tests can
                                occur months or years after the architecture was developed.
9. Is the ISP consistent with   All the common aspects of the ISP, JCIDs documents, and
    the architecture and        architecture are the same. One consistent data set should feed
    CONOPS of the system?       all three documents.
10. Are there any
    impediments to CCA          Cost, schedule, and performance issues. Lack of documentation
    confirmation of             to confirm CCA compliance.
    compliance?
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                     41


                                         Attachment 6
                 INFORMATION ASSURANCE STRATEGY TEMPLATE
                      (PROGRAM NAME) Acquisition IA Strategy

I. Program and System Description.

A. Program Information (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

Identify the Acquisition Category (ACAT) of the program. Identify current acquisition life-cycle
phase and next milestone decision. Include a graphic representation of the program's schedule.

B. System Description (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

Include or reference a high-level overview of the specific system being acquired. Characterize
the system as to type of DoD information system (AIS application, enclave, platform IT
interconnection, outsourced IT-based process), or as Platform IT without a GIG interconnection.
Include or reference a graphic (block diagram) that shows the major elements/subsystems that
make up the system or service being acquired, and how they fit together. Describe or reference
the system's function, and summarize significant information exchange requirements and
interfaces with other IT or systems, as well as primary databases supported. Identify the
primary network(s) to which the system will be connected (e.g. NIPRNET, SIPRNET, JWICS,
etc.). Include a description or graphic defining the system’s accreditation boundary.

II. Information Assurance Requirements.

A. Sources (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

1. Mission Assurance Category and Confidentiality Level

Identify the system's MAC and Confidentiality Level as specified in the applicable capabilities
document, or as determined by the system User Representative on behalf of the information
owner, in accordance with DoD Instruction 8500.2. If the system architecture includes multiple
segments with differing MAC and CL combinations, include a table listing all segments and their
associated MAC and CL designations, as well as a brief rationale for the segmentation. If the
system is a National Security System, state such and indicate question N78 has been answered in
EITDR.

2. Baseline IA Control Sets

Identify the applicable sets of Baseline IA Controls from DoD Instruction 8500.2 that will be
implemented. A listing of individual controls is not required.

3. ICD/CDD/CPD specified requirements

List any specific IA requirements identified in the approved governing capability documents (e.g.
Initial Capabilities Document, Capability Development Document or Capability Production
Document).
 42                                                         AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


4. Other requirements

List any IA requirements specified by other authority (i.e. Component mandated).

B. IA Budget (scope and adequacy) (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

Describe how IA requirements for the full life cycle of the system (including costs associated
with certification and accreditation activities) are included and visible in the overall program
budget. Include a statement of the adequacy of the IA budget relative to requirements.

III. System IA Approach (high level): (Applicable to MS B, C, FRP/FDD)

A. System IA technical approach

Describe, at a high level, the IA technical approach that will secure the system.

B. Protections provided by external system or infrastructure

List any protection to be provided by external systems or infrastructure (i.e. inherited control
solutions).

IV. Acquisition of IA Capabilities and Support: (Applicable to MS B, C, FRP/FDD)

Describe how the program’s contracting/procurement approach is structured to ensure each of
the following IA requirements are included in system performance and technical specifications,
RFPs and contracts (as well as other agreements, such as SLAs, MOAs, etc.) early in the
acquisition life cycle.

A. System IA capabilities (COTS or developmental contract)

B. GFE/GFM (external programs)

C. System IA capabilities as services (commercial or government)

D. Information Systems Security Engineering (ISSE) services

E. IA professional support services to the program (commercial or government, including
C&A support)

Confirm that program contracts/agreements communicate the requirement for personnel
performing IA roles to be trained and appropriately certified in IA in accordance with DoD
Directive 8570.01.

V. System Certification and Accreditation:

A. Process (DIACAP; DCID 6/3, etc) (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

 Identify the specific Certification and Accreditation (C&A) process to be employed (e.g., DoD
Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP), NSA/CSS
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    43


Information Systems Certification and Accreditation Process (NISCAP), DoD Intelligence
Information System (DODIIS)). If the system being acquired is platform IT without a GIG
interconnection, describe any Component level process imposed to allocate and validate IA
requirements prior to operation.

B. Key role assignments (Applicable to MS B, C, FRP/FDD)

Include the name, title, and organization of the Designated Accrediting Authority, Certification
Authority, and User Representative for each separately accreditable system being acquired by
the program.

C. C&A timeline (Applicable to MS B, C, FRP/FDD)

Include a timeline graphic depicting the target initiation and completion dates for the C&A
process, highlighting the issuance of Interim Authorization to Test (IATT), Interim Authorization
to Operate (IATO), and Authorizations to Operate (ATOs). Normally, it is expected that an ATO
will be issued prior to operational test and evaluation.

D. C&A approach (Applicable to MS B, C, FRP/FDD)

If the program is pursuing an evolutionary acquisition approach, describe how each increment
will be subjected to the certification and accreditation process. If the C&A process has started,
identify significant activity completed, and whether an ATO or IATO was issued. If the system
being acquired will process, store, or distribute Sensitive Compartmented Information,
compliance with Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 503 "Intelligence Community
Information Technology Systems Security Risk Management, Certification and Accreditation” is
required, and the plan for compliance should be addressed. Do not include reiterations of the
generic descriptions of the C&A process (e.g. general descriptions of the DIACAP activities
from DoDI 8510.01 and the DIACAP Knowledge Service).

VI. IA Testing:

A. Testing Integration (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

Confirm that all IA testing and C&A activities will be/has been integrated into the program's test
and evaluation planning, and incorporated into program testing documentation, such as the Test
and Evaluation Strategy and Test and Evaluation Master Plan.

B. Product Evaluation (e.g. IA/IA enabled products) (Applicable to MS B, C, FRP/FDD)

List any planned incorporation of IA products/IA enabled products into the system being
acquired, and address any acquisition or testing impacts stemming from compliance with
NSTISSP Number 11.

C. Cryptographic Certification (Applicable to MS B, C, FRP/FDD)
 44                                                         AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


List any planned incorporation of cryptographic items into the system being acquired, and
address any acquisition or testing impacts stemming from the associated certification of the
items by NSA or NIST prior to connection or incorporation.

VII. IA Shortfalls: (Include as classified annex if appropriate) (Applicable to MS B, C,
FRP/FDD)

A. Significant IA shortfalls

Identify any significant IA shortfalls, and proposed solutions and/or mitigation strategies.
Specify the impact of failure to resolve any shortfall in terms of program resources and schedule,
inability to achieve threshold performance, and system or warfighter vulnerability. If applicable,
identify any Acquisition Decision Memoranda that cite IA issues. If no significant issues apply,
state “None”.

B. Proposed solutions and/or mitigation strategies

If the solution to an identified shortfall lies outside the control of the program office, include a
recommendation identifying the organization with the responsibility and authority to address the
shortfall.

VIII. Policy and Guidance: (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

List the primary policy guidance employed by the program in preparing and executing the
Acquisition IA Strategy, including the DoD 8500 series, and DoD Component, Major
Command/Systems Command, or program-specific guidance, as applicable. The Information
Assurance Support Environment web site provides an actively maintained list of relevant
statutory, Federal/DoD regulatory, and DoD guidance that may be applicable. Capsule
descriptions of the issuances are not required.

IX. Point of Contact: (Applicable to MS A, B, C, FRP/FDD)

Include the name and contact information for the program management office individual
responsible for the Acquisition IA Strategy document. It is recommended that the system’s
Information Assurance Manager (as defined in DoD Instruction 8500.2) be the point of contact.
AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                45


                                       Attachment 7
             INFORMATION ASSURANCE STRATEGY TEMPLATE
       FOR SYSTEMS IN SUSTAINMENT UNDERGOING MODERNIZATION

                                         PAGE 1

                              SYSTEM NAME - ACRONYM
                                     VERSION
                                       DATE




                                         PAGE 2

1. System Registration Number: (EITDR / DITPR)
2. Mission Assurance Category: (MAC I, II, or III)
3. Confidentiality Level: Public, Sensitive, Classified
4. National Security System (NSS): Yes / No
5. NSS Category:
6. Mission Area: Warfighting, Business, Intelligence, Enterprise Information Environment
7. Mission Criticality: Essential, Critical
8. Accreditation Type: ATO, IATO
9. This is the first, second, other IATO
10. Current Accreditation Expiration Date:
11. Information System Owner:
12. Designated Accrediting Authority:
13. Program Manager: (name and phone number)
14. IAM: (name and phone number)
15. System Baseline IA Controls Set: (list)
16. IA Controls affected by the configuration change: (list)
17. Planned IA Control Testing Milestones:
        (estimated test completion date for each Control – list)
46                                                                        AFMAN33-407 24 OCTOBER 2012


                                                    Attachment 8
     EXCERPT FROM DIRECTIVE-TYPE MEMORANDUM 11-009, ACQUISITION
        POLICY FOR DEFENSE BUSINESS SYSTEMS (DBS), JUNE 23, 2011

       TABLE 4. CCA (REFERENCE (O)) COMPLIANCE FOR DBS USING BCL

     ACTIONS REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH SUBTITLE III                                APPLICABLE PROGRAM
              OF THE CCA (REFERENCE (O))                                           DOCUMENTATION1
 1. Make a determination that the acquisition supports core,
                                                                        Business Case, Program Charter
 priority functions of the DoD. 2
 2. Establish outcome-based performance measures linked to
                                                                        Business Case, APB approval
 strategic goals. 2
 3. Redesign the processes that the system supports to reduce
 costs, improve effectiveness and maximize the use of COTS              Business Case, Program Charter
 technology. 2
 4. Determine that no Private Sector or Government source can
                                                                        Business Case, Program Charter
 better support the function.
 5.    Conduct an AoA.                                                  Business Case (AoA)
 6. Conduct an economic analysis that includes a calculation of
                                                                        Business Case (EA)
 the return on investment.
 7. Develop clearly established measures and accountability for
                                                                        Business Case (APB)
 program progress.
 8. Ensure that the acquisition is consistent with the Global
                                                                        APB (Net-Ready KPP), Business Case
 Information Grid (GIG) policies and architecture, to include
                                                                        (ISP (Information Exchange Requirements))
 relevant standards (References (j) and (x)).
 9. Ensure that the program has an information assurance strategy
                                                                        Acquisition Information Assurance Strategy
 that is consistent with DoD policies, standards and architectures. 2
 10. Ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that modular
 contracting has been used, and that the program is being
 implemented in phased, successive increments, each of which            Business Case
 meets part of the mission need and delivers measurable benefit,
 independent of future increments.
 11. Register mission-critical and mission-essential systems (see
                                                                        DoD IT Portfolio Repository
 Glossary) systems with the DoD CIO. 2
 Notes:
 1. The system documents cited are examples of the most likely but not the only references for the required information. If
 other references are more appropriate, they may be used in addition to or instead of those cited. Include page(s) and
 paragraph(s), where appropriate.
 2. These actions are also required to comply with section 811 of Public Law 106-398 Reference (y)).
 3. Definitions:
  Mission-Critical Information System. A system that meets the definitions of "information system" and ''National
 Security System (NSS)" in the CCA (Reference (0)), the loss of which would cause the stoppage of warfighter
 operations or direct mission support of warfighter operations. (The designation of mission-critical shall be made by a
 DoD Component Head. A financial management IT system shall be considered a mission-critical IT system as
 designated by the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)/Chief Financial Officer (CFO), DoD.) A
 "mission-critical IT system" has the same meaning as a "mission-critical information system."
 Mission-Essential Information System. A system that meets the definition of "information system" in the CCA
 (Reference (0)), that the acquiring DoD Component Head determines is basic and necessary for the accomplishment of
 the organizational mission. (The designation of mission-essential shall be made by a DoD Component Head. A financial
 management IT system shall be considered a mission essential IT system as designated by the USD(C)/CFO.) A
 "mission-essential IT system" has the same meaning as a "mission-essential information system."
