                               Template modified:      27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                            AIR FORCE MANUAL 36-2122
AIR FORCE                                                                               1 DECEMBER 1995

                                                                                                    Personnel

                                                          INTERSERVICE OFFICERS ON EXCHANGE
                                                            DUTY WITH UNITED STATES AIR FORCE



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFPC/DPAJC (MSgt B. McGowan)                       Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPA (Col B. Erickson)
Supersedes AFR 36-71, 15 June 1990                                                            Pages: 8
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This Air Force manual (AFMAN) outlines the instructions for administering officers of other United
States military departments performing exchange duty with the United States Air Force (USAF). It
implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Mili-
tary Personnel. It does not apply to officers who are assigned to Joint Staff, joint activities, or liaison duty
positions while representing their parent service. The purpose of the interservice officer exchange pro-
gram is to provide each participant the means to obtain actual working knowledge of mission, policies,
and procedures in those areas where the services have mutual interests and where one service can assist or
extend the activities of the other as necessary. This manual applies to active duty interservice exchange
officers serving with the United States Air Force. It does not apply to Air National Guard or United States
Air Force Reserve units or members. Process supplements that affect any military personnel function as
shown in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 37-160, volume 1, table 3.2, The Air Force Publications and Forms
Management Programs--Developing and Processing Publications.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the initial publication of AFMAN 36-2122, converting AFR 36-71, 15 June 1990. It eliminates the
Responsibility and Control portion (paragraph 1) of the previous regulation. Additionally, it corrects all
office symbols and directives identified in the previous regulation.



1. Status of Attached Interservice Officers. Gives interservice exchange officers the same authority
and supervisor responsibilities as Air Force officers of equivalent grade. Attached exchange officers are
normally not assigned disciplinary, financial, or other responsibilities that directive or public law gives to
USAF officers.

2. Strength Accountability. Interservice exchange officers are not assigned to Air Force units for duty
but are reported as attached officers according to AFR 35-40, Strength Accounting. Actual strength
accountability for interservice exchange officers remains with the parent service.
3. Duty Positions. Officers normally fill Air Force authorized unit personnel management roster posi-
tions and are not assigned as overages. The individual normally remains attached to the same unit during
his or her tour of duty. Moving officers from the original attached unit or changing positions require HQ
AFPC/DPAJC coordination and approval. No restrictions apply to a change in position within the same
unit of attachment, nor is coordination required.

4. Using Exchange Officers During Hostilities. During general hostilities exchange officers remain
with their unit of attachment and comply with orders received from their unit when the parent service
recalls them.
   4.1. Exchange officers in units deployed on temporary active duty in support of limited hostilities
   remain with their deployed unit and comply with the operational commander’s orders until the parent
   service recalls them.
   4.2. Operational commanders of units with exchange officers notify HQ AFPC/DPAJC by message
   when duty location changes occur as a result of 4.1.

5. Tour Lengths and Adjustments:
   5.1. The normal tour of duty with the USAF is 24 months, exclusive of travel and training time, with
   the option of extending the tour length to 36 months if the USAF and the parent service agree.
   5.2. The officer submits, in writing through the attached USAF operational commander, requests for
   tour length adjustments. The commander provides a recommenda-tion and forwards the request to
   HQ AFPC/DPAJC, 550 C Street West, Ste 32, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4734, who coordinates the
   request with the appropriate service. A tour adjustment must be completed and approved through the
   parent service before submitting a request for a replacement officer.

6. Financial Responsibilities:
   6.1. Charge pay and allowances to the parent service’s appropriations.
   6.2. Travel costs:
       6.2.1. Permanent change of station (PCS) to and from the Air Force Duty Station. The parent ser-
       vice publishes orders and funds the cost of travel in moving an exchange office to and from the Air
       Force duty station.
       6.2.2. PCS Moves During Tour. The parent service publishes orders and funds a PCS move
       (including movement of dependents and household goods) during the time an officer is attached to
       the Air Force. HQ AFPC/DPAJC will be an information addressee on all correspondence.
       6.2.3. Temporary Active Duty (TDY). The USAF publishes orders and funds the travel or per
       diem costs or both for TDY performed for the USAF. The parent service publishes orders and
       funds the travel or per diem or both costs for directing the attached exchange officer to go TDY or
       temporary additional duty performed for the parent service.
       6.2.4. En Route Temporary Duty. When an incoming exchange officer is directed to undergo
       training, orientation, or indoctrination at an Air Force activity en route to his or her exchange duty
       station, the parent service funds the travel or per diem or both costs.

7. Submitting Reports:

                                                 2
   7.1. Routine Personnel Reports. Parent services usually require exchange officers to submit rou-
   tine personnel reports to their parent commander. USAF commanders and supervisors normally
   cooperate and provide assistance in helping exchange officers prepare and submit reports.
   7.2. Activity Reports. When directed, exchange officers submit activity reports to their parent com-
   mander through directed channels. If channels do not include the USAF commander, the exchange
   officer provides an information copy at time of submission.
   Once received, the USAF commander forwards the reports through USAF channels for Air Force
   review and comment if applicable.
   7.3. Station Report. A station report is a document that outlines station demographics, facilities,
   etc. The in-cumbent exchange officer prepares or updates this report, and it accompanies requests for
   replacement (see 22. and Attachment 1).

8. Personnel Record Maintenance:
   8.1. The parent service has primary responsibility for maintaining attached exchange officer person-
   nel records. The attached Air Force unit communicates directly with the exchange officer’s parent ser-
   vice unit for routine personnel information or when requiring parent service forms.
   8.2. As a minimum the USAF commander should maintain the following personnel records on
   attached exchange officers:
       8.2.1. DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data.
       8.2.2. Health and dental treatment records.
       8.2.3. Individual flight records for exchange officers assigned to flying positions and who are
       required to fly or whose parent service requires flying proficiency. The host USAF commander
       assists the exchange officer in maintaining these records according to AFI 11-401, Flight Manage-
       ment.

9. Casualty Reporting. Follow procedures in AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services, should an exchange
officer become a casualty.

10. Fitness and Effectiveness Reports. On receipt from the parent service, the USAF supervisor will:
   10.1. Using the current NAVPERS Form 1611/1, Report on the Fitness Officers, evaluate the per-
   formance of an attached naval exchange officer. Before the supervisor sends the report to the Com-
   mander, Naval Military Personnel Command (NMPC-323), Washington DC 20350-2000, an
   appropriate naval officer will review it as a matter of standard procedure. Write proof of the com-
   pleted review on the record copy by entering reviewed (signature, grade and title).
   10.2. Using the current NAVMC Form 10835, USMC Fitness Report, evaluate performance of an
   attached Marine Corps exchange officer, and the next senior USAF officer in the exchange officer’s
   attached chain of command reviews it. Send the report to the Performance Evaluation Branch, Code
   MMPE-2, Headquarters, US Marine Corps, Washington DC 20380-0001, for administrative review.
   If the USAF command of attachment or chain of command does not include a US Navy or Marine
   Corps officer who could complete the review, then request a review from the major Naval command
   from which the exchange officer is detached in order to complete the evaluation.


                                               3
   10.3. Evaluate an attached Army officer’s performance on the current Department of the Army (DA)
   Form 67-8, Officer Evaluation Report. The evaluation is according to the rating chain that the divi-
   sion to which the officer is assigned establishes in agreement with the USAF. The division from
   which the officer is detached completes the initial preparation of the evaluation form and then sends it
   to the Air Force supervisor. For administrative review, return the form to the Army division for final-
   ization according to Army Regulation 623-105, Officer Evaluation Reporting System.
   10.4. Evaluate an attached Coast Guard (CG) officer’s performance on the current CG Form 5312
   (level I or level II), Officer Evaluation Report, and the next senior USAF officer in the exchange
   officer’s attached chain of command reviews it. Use the Level I Form for grades 0-1 through 0-4. Use
   the Level II Form for grade 0-5. Then send the report to Headquarters, US Coast Guard (G-PIM-3),
   2100 Second Street, SW, Washington DC 20593-0001, for administrative review.
   10.5. Submit problems or questions that resubmission or revision cannot resolve to the reviewing
   officer with an attached memo outlining the disagreement or misunder-standing.

11. Disciplining Exchange Officers. Usually, the parent service takes disciplinary action on in the case
of exchange officers attached to Air Force units. When nonjudicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ,
is required, the parent service must administer it. Except in narrow circumstances set forth in Rule for
Court-Martial 201 (e), an exchange officer should not be tried by a court-martial convened by an Air
Force officer. The parent service must process any exchange officer for involuntary separation from the
service. If the exchange officer is to undergo disciplinary action, the USAF commander submits support
documents and a recommendation on whether or not the exchange officer should be relieved from duties
with the USAF. The USAF commander may use nonpunitive measures such as reprimands or admoni-
tions as needed.

12. Leave and Passes. The exchange officer’s com-mander grants exchange officers leave and passes
according to their legal entitlements and parent service directives. The USAF commander has the author-
ity to grant leave and passes and publish leave orders. On the officer’s return from leave, the USAF com-
mander or his or her designated representative provides a copy of the leave order with departure and
return information to the parent service administrative commander for processing and leave accounting.

13. Wearing the Uniform. Exchange officers comply with parent service directives when wearing the
uniform. In combat areas or in areas where the parent service uni-form is not appropriate for wear, the
exchange officer may wear the appropriate USAF functional, organiza-tional, or special purpose uniform
provided there is no expense to the officer. Individuals wear the appropriate grade insignia of their parent
service when wearing the USAF uniform. Exchange officers comply with USAF personal appearance
standards during their exchange tour of duty.

14. Awards and Decorations. USAF commanders may recommend interservice exchange officers for
an award or decoration according to AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, or
their parent service directives. Coordination between the services is essential in order to prevent duplicat-
ing of the award or decoration.

15. Supply Items and Issue. Issue to exchange officers supply items required to perform their jobs. On
completing exchange duty, exchange officers will return all issued items through Air Force supply chan-
nels.

                                                 4
16. Government Quarters. The USAF provides family type or single quarters, if available, to
exchange officers on the same basis it provides for its own officers as outlined in AFI 32-6001, Family
Housing Management, and AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management and Operations.

17. Flying Status and Facility Use. If the parent service’s directives require an attached officer to
maintain flying proficiency, the Air Force operational commander will provide access to flying facilities
and opportunity to fly. The nearest USAF flight records management officer will assist the officer in
maintaining an individual flight record and information.

18. Establishing Interservice Programs or Positions:
   18.1. New Programs. Send new program proposals for exchanges with the USAF to HQ AFPC/
   DPA, 550 C Street West, Ste 32, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4734 with complete justification and the
   suggested use of the USAF officer for the offset position.
   18.2. New Positions in an Existing Program. Send new position proposals to HQ AFPC/DPAJC,
   550 C Street West, Ste 32, for coordination. Proposals must include a proposed position description
   Attachment 2 and a station report Attachment 1 and the interservice program contact point for
   exchange matters.

19. Requesting Replacement Officers. The interservice exchange officer’s USAF commander or des-
ignated representative is responsible for requesting replacement exchange officers. The Air Force unit
forwards replacement requests and position descriptions through its respective major command (MAJ-
COM) to HQ AFPC/DPAJC, 550 C Street West, Ste 32, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4732. Requests must
arrive at AFPC 180 calendar days before the 1st day of the month in which the incumbent completes the
exchange tour. Use attachment 2 when requesting replacement officers.

20. Notifying Inbound Exchange Officers. HQ AFPC/DPAJC receives the name, grade, and service
number of each inbound officer from the appropriate interservice program contact point along with a
career brief or resume of the inbound officer’s qualifications and duty history. Once obtained, the infor-
mation is sent to the attached officer’s gaining Air Force MAJCOM and unit. The unit uses this informa-
tion to make appropriate arrangements for the officer’s impending arrival. Make every effort to get the
officer quickly settled into his or her new environment and exchange officer duties.

21. Detaching Exchange Officers. When the exchange officer completes his or her tour, the parent ser-
vice publishes orders reassigning or detaching the exchange officer from the USAF.

22. Station Reports. The incumbent exchange officer prepares a station report (see attachment 1) and
submits it in two copies to the attached USAF commander or designated representative as part of the
replacement exchange officer request. Base or post brochures are not acceptable substitutes for the sta-
tion report require-ment. Forward a copy of the station report to the parent service for its use.




                                         EUGENE E. HABIGER, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Personnel

                                                5
                                            Attachment 1

                                   SAMPLE STATION REPORT

A1.1. Attach two copies of the station report to the requisition for a replacement officer. The station
report should include as a minimum the following items:
   A1.1.1. Station location.
   A1.1.2. Station facilities:
   Housing to include general information on the type of housing available (government quarters and
   economy, whether furnished or unfurnished, size, number of bedrooms, cost, and so forth).
   Schools available (elementary, middle and high schools)
   Medical and dental care
   Recreation activities
   A1.1.3. Churches or Synagogues.
   A1.1.4. General Comments.

A1.2. The Interservice Exchange Program contact point uses the description and station report when
selecting a replacement individual. This report should therefore be both informative and factual.




                                               6
                                              Attachment 2

 SAMPLE REQUEST FOR REPLACEMENT OFFICER POSITION DESCRIPTION UNITED
          STATES AIR FORCE--INTERSERVICE EXCHANGE PROGRAM

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFPC/DPAJC

FROM: (Functional address symbol)

SUBJECT: Request for Replacement Action of Interservice Exchange Officer

Request your assistance in identifying a replacement for the incumbent identified below:

     a. Name, Grade, Service Number, and Branch of Service: Jones, John H., Lt, 123-45-6789, USN

     b. Projected Departure Date: July 1996

The following information is provided to assist parent service with identifying qualified replacement:

     a. Reporting Date to USAF Unit: 10 January 1996

     b. Position Title: F-16 Flight Commander

     c. Position Location: Nellis AFB NV 89191-5000

     d. USAF Unit of Attachment: 57 Wing (ACC)

    e. Tour length (including preemployment conversion training): 24 months after completion of six
months pre-employment conversion training. Total tour length is 30 months.

     f. Unit Mission (provide a brief description of the unit’s mission):

     g. Primary Duties: Supervises the duty performance of six USAF F-16 pilots; serves as four-ship
flight lead on air-to-surface and air-to-air missions and other assigned missions as required; conducts
briefings and critiques on all missions.

     h. Type of Aircraft the Officer Will Fly: F-16C

    i. Type of Training Required: F-16 conversion training at Luke AFB AZ, approximately six
months. NOTE: The attached unit schedules inbound exchange officer’s required training through the
MAJCOM/DPAR and DOT and advises AFMPC when training is scheduled.

                                                 7
     j. Qualifications and Experience:

            (1) Mandatory:

            (a) Top Secret (or the appropriate security clearance level needed)

                 (b) Grade Required: USN Lt or Lt Commander (or other service’s rank as appropriate)

                 (c) No less than 1000 first pilot hours in fighter or trainer aircraft

                 (d) Flight Commander Qualified

                 (e) Four-Ship Flight Lead Qualified

            (2) Desired:

                 (a) Graduate of Navy Fighter Weapons School

                 (b) Previous Instructor Pilot Experience

     k. Reporting Instructions: The selected officer will report to the 57th Wing Commander by 5 Janu-
ary 1996, Bldg 98, at Nellis AFB for assignment to the 64th Aggressor Squadron and inprocessing
instructions.

     l. Special Instructions: Use this section to add any requirements of a special or unusual nature; i.e.,
on arrival, the officer must have six flight suits without patches.




Signature




                                                    8
