BY ORDER OF THE                                    AIR FORCE MANUAL 31-201, VOLUME 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              9 AUGUST 2010
                                                            Incorporating Change 1, 6 July 2011

                                                                                         Security

                                                               SECURITY FORCES HISTORY



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFSFC/SFOP                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A7S
                                                                 (Brig Gen Jimmy E. McMillian)
                                                                                      Pages: 25


This Directive sets forth policies regarding Security Forces (SF) standards and procedures
of Air Force civilian and military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard serving in traditional SF roles.

This is the initial publication of Air Force Manual 31-201, Volume 1. This guide acquaints Air
Force Security Forces (SF) Airmen with a broad general knowledge of their career field and the
Security Forces mission. This manual serves to instill esprit de corps and to enhance SF
member‘s knowledge of the history and traditions unique to their career field. This publication is
not intended to be all-inclusive or directive in nature and does not include Department of
Defense requirements. The manual addresses some of the basic skills and knowledge needed to
succeed in Security Forces. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Any organization may supplement this
instruction. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ
AFSFC/SFOP, 1517 Billy Mitchell Blvd Bldg 954, Lackland AFB, TX, 78236, on the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
 2                                                                                   AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Interim Change changes verbiage in paragraph 2.2.2 identifying A1C Albert Handy and
briefly describing his role in the events of 1 Jul 1965. The term ―Security Forces members‖ in
paragraph 2.5.4 was changed to read ―Security Police members‖ to more accurately reflect the
name of the career field at the time of the Khobar Towers incident. The actions of the only two
Security Forces members awarded the Air Force Cross, Captain Reginald Maisey and Captain
Garth Wright, are added in paragraph 2.7. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—HERITAGE AND UNIFORMS                                                                                                            3
       1.1.   The Security Forces Mission. ................................................................................                3
       1.2.   Security Forces Culture. .........................................................................................           3

Chapter 2—SECURITY FORCES HISTORY                                                                                                          7
       2.1.   Pre-Air Force through the 1950s. ...........................................................................                 7
       2.2.   The 1960s; Vietnam and Air Base Defense ...........................................................                          9
       2.3.   The 1970s: ..............................................................................................................   10
       2.4.   The 1980s: ..............................................................................................................   11
       2.5.   The 1990s: ..............................................................................................................   12
       2.6.   The 2000s: ..............................................................................................................   14
       2.7.   Security Forces Air Force Cross Recipients. .........................................................                       18

Chapter 3—MILITARY WORKING DOG, COMBAT ARMS TRAINING AND MAINTENANCE,
            CORRECTIONS, AND REGIONAL TRAINING CENTER PROGRAMS     19
       3.1.   The Military Working Dog (MWD) Program. .......................................................                             19
       3.2.   The Combat Arms Program. ..................................................................................                 20
       3.3.   Air Force Corrections Programs ............................................................................                 20
       3.4.   Regional Training Centers. ....................................................................................             22
       3.5.   The Security Forces career field has been shaped by many events and people, too
              numerous to mention in detail in this manual. .......................................................                       23
       3.6.   Forms Prescribed. ..................................................................................................        23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            24
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                      3



                                            Chapter 1

                                HERITAGE AND UNIFORMS

1.1. The Security Forces Mission. The mission of all Security Forces is to protect, defend, and
fight to enable Air Force, Joint, and Coalition missions. Our vision is mission-ready, resilient
and air-minded security forces organized, trained, and equipped to deliver enduring integrated
defense against threats to Air Force, Joint, and Coalition missions; recognized and respected for
our air-centric expertise. Every Airman, enlisted and officer, must be knowledgeable in basic
police and ground combat skills. We must be great leaders and great followers and must
rigorously train our bodies and minds to meet the challenges of the Air Force mission. SF
members are all part of a team, be it a fire team, a squad, a flight, or other unit. The failure of
any one person to fulfill their responsibility to the mission can have potentially devastating
consequences for the team and the Air Force mission.
1.2. Security Forces Culture. Changes in threats and world events make Integrated Defense
(ID) the primary SF mission. ID is the application of active and passive defense measures,
employed across the legally-defined ground dimension of the operational environment, to
mitigate potential risks and defeat adversary threats to Air Force operations. ID skill sets are
applicable across the spectrum of conflict and include nuclear and non-nuclear security,
operational doctrine, standards and policy, physical security, integrated defense, combat arms,
law enforcement, Air Provost, antiterrorism, crime prevention, resources protection, corrections,
and the Department of Defense Military Working Dog Program. The Air Force expects, and the
nature of the mission demands, that SF personnel are ―first in‖ and ―fit to fight‖ when they arrive
at a duty location. Consequently, it was deemed the SF career field needed a symbol of its
commitment to and focus on the wartime mission of ground defense in addition to the traditional
symbol, the Security Forces shield. The Defensor Fortis emblem and motto (both adopted in
1997) are descriptive of the career field direction and present a strong visible symbol of the
Force Protection commitment to the Air Force and the general public.
   1.2.1. Display the Security Forces emblem wherever it will enhance the image of Security
   Forces. Use it in place of the Security Forces shield to represent the career field except
   where the subject is Air Provost specific. Personnel may use both emblems together where
   doing so enhances the career field image.
   1.2.2. Defensor Fortis. ―Defenders‖ are members of all Air Force specialties serving in
   Security Forces units worldwide. Our mission is Force Protection. Our motto is Defensor
   Fortis or Defenders of the Force. Our symbol is the Falcon over crossed runways. It is
   derived from the heraldry of the Vietnam era Operation SAFE SIDE 1041st Security Police
   Squadron (Test) which evolved into the 82nd Combat Security Police Wing. The wing‘s
   mission was to provide the Air Force with worldwide ground defense capability and it serves
   as the model for modern Security Forces operations; the use of its heraldry is appropriate and
   significant. Blue alludes to the sky, the primary theater of Air Force operations. Yellow
   refers to the sun and the excellence required of Security Forces members. The crossed
   runways represent all bases and Air Force operations. The falcon, with talons extended, is
   swooping in on its prey symbolizing Force Protection.
4                                                           AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


    1.2.3. The Security Forces Shield. Security Forces members wear a distinctive uniform so
    we may be quickly identified as authority figures. The shield and beret (discussed later)
    denote authority within the Air Force and SF members will wear them with pride, dignity,
    and restraint. Security Forces squadron commanders will retrieve the shield and beret from
    members relieved of duty for reasons of misconduct.
       1.2.3.1. The first official Air Police Shield was issued to, Brigadier General R.F.
       Burnham, the Air Provost Marshal, by General Curtis E. LeMay, the Air Force Vice
       Chief of Staff, in 1959. The shield actually started out as a Military Police/Air Police
       brassard, but repeated requests by the Air Police to Headquarters Air Force finally
       resulted in the Air Force approving the first trial issue of the shield in 1957. This first
       tentative design was done by Mr. Thomas H. Jones who, also, created many WWII
       awards and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery. Instead
       of a conventional police badge design, which most police units use today, the Security
       Forces Shield is unique in shape. The shield was incorporated into a cloth design in the
       1970s for use with the fatigue uniform and later for the Battle Dress Uniform and Airmen
       Battle Uniform. Leather name tags with an embossed shield were used during the early
       1990s, but were later phased out. However, the leather tag with shield is still used on the
       Security Forces blue cold weather jacket and the SF brassard is now available through
       normal Air Force supply channels.
       1.2.3.2. The current shield was adopted in 1966. The Air Force crest surmounts the
       shield and consists of three elements. The eagle represents the United States and its
       airpower, overlaid on the billowing cloud representing the new sky faced by the newest
       branch of service, the U.S. Air Force. The final element of the crest is the wreath
       consisting of six twists of metal: in color, these are the alternating blue and silver colors
       of the Air Force. The Air Force shield lies at the center of the Security Forces badge and
       also consists of three portions. The background is divided horizontally by a nebulous line
       representing clouds. The final element is the winged flames and lightning bolts
       representing striking power through the use of aerospace power. The shield body is a
       stylized warrior‘s shield representing the protection Security Forces provide to Air Force
       members and resources.
    1.2.4. The Security Forces Uniform. Security Forces members have long worn uniform
    items to distinguish them from other career fields. There are and have been a number of
    reasons for this. Personnel need to readily identify SF members in crisis situations as a
    symbol of authority, trust and responsibility. Our unique appearance has the effect of
    providing a deterrent to those who may seek to violate the law, damage and steal property, or
    harm others. More recently, however, the distinctive uniform, specifically the beret with the
    Defensor Fortis flash, identifies SF members as an elite group of Airmen charged with the
    primary responsibility of protecting the Air Force worldwide. The uniform presents a strong
    visible symbol of a Force Protection commitment to the Air Force and the general public.
    Established appearance standards instill in the public a confidence in SF abilities. A failure
    to maintain appearance standards and/or failing to properly wear the beret or Security Forces
    shield erodes the public‘s confidence in SF abilities and cannot be tolerated.
       1.2.4.1. Although largely replaced by the Security Forces Shield, the brassard is still
       authorized for wear under certain circumstances. When worn by Security Forces
       members, it is worn with the shield, not in place of it. Wear the brassard on the left arm
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                     5


     with the top pinned to the seam between the shoulder and the arm. Wear of the brassard
     is authorized under various circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
         1.2.4.1.1. When authorized by the installation commander.
         1.2.4.1.2. In overseas areas where the host nation government recognizes it.
         1.2.4.1.3. By Security Forces augmentees in lieu of issuing the Security Forces
         Shield.
  1.2.5. In 1975, Security Forces personnel were given two distinct symbols to identify their
  specialized mission; the Force Protection qualification badge and the Security Forces Beret.
     1.2.5.1. The Security Forces Beret. Probably no symbol identifies a Security Forces
     member more than the beret with flash. The flash is symbolic of the SF mission and must
     be worn properly.
         1.2.5.1.1. The beret is worn by positioning the headband straight across the forehead,
         1 inch above the eyebrows. Drape the top over the right ear and the stiffener. Align
         the flash over the left eye. Adjust the ribbon for comfort, tie it in a knot, and tuck it
         inside or cut it off.
         1.2.5.1.2. Proper wear of the beret includes keeping it clean and serviceable. The
         beret and flash must be cleaned regularly and replaced when no longer serviceable.
         1.2.5.1.3. The beret WILL NOT be worn when performing base details, such as
         picking up trash. Security Forces members performing details should wear the ABU
         hat.
     1.2.5.2. The Force Protection qualification badge is worn as directed in AFI 36-2906,
     Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
  1.2.6. Security Forces General Orders. Security Forces duties and responsibilities can vary
  greatly from one location to another, but the General Orders overarch the whole spectrum of
  SF duties and serve as an important guide while in the performance of those duties. The
  number of posts, limits of those posts, and responsibilities of those posts are determined
  ―locally,‖ however; the basic General Orders remain the same. They are:
     1.2.6.1. I will take charge of my post and protect personnel and property for which I
     am responsible until properly relieved. SF members have been entrusted with the
     protection of personnel and resources and as such will not leave nor abandon any post.
     You will stay within post limits until proper relief has been obtained. This is true
     regardless of how long you have been posted and what the conditions may be. In the
     event an extenuating circumstance should occur, the second General Order below
     provides further guidance
     1.2.6.2. I will report all violations of orders I am entrusted to enforce and will call my
     superior in any case not covered by instructions. SF members have the authority to
     apprehend anyone violating those orders. If any situation arises that is not covered
     by written instructions, contact your superior for guidance. If a SF member cannot
     contact superiors, they must exercise discretion and act according to training, best
     judgment, and common sense.
6                                                  AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


    1.2.6.3. I will sound the alarm in case of disorder or emergency. SF members must
    report any event threatening the security of the installation or endangering life or
    property. We must also take reasonable actions to save life and property and lessen
    danger.
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                      7


                                           Chapter 2

                              SECURITY FORCES HISTORY

2.1. Pre-Air Force through the 1950s. The invention of the aircraft and its subsequent military
use required a protective force to guard the aircraft and defend the people who fly and fight. In
1921, Italian General Giulio Douhet said, “It is easier and more effective to destroy the enemy’s
aerial power by destroying his nests and eggs on the ground then to hunt his flying birds in the
air.” Security Forces are, and have been, that protective force and each SF member is part of
that proud history.
   2.1.1. The history of the United States Air Force Security Forces began in 1947, but its
   heritage goes back to 1943. As result of the reorganization of the War Department, General
   Henry H. ―Hap‖ Arnold established the Office of the Air Provost Marshal. Army Air Force
   (AAF) Military Police Companies were brought together and named AAF Base Security
   Battalions. This marked the first major milestone in the history of our career field.
   2.1.2. The provision of interior police or guard duty, law enforcement, and defense for the
   air bases of the growing AAF was the responsibility of Army Provost Marshal Major General
   Allen W. Guillon. Three organizations were established to perform these missions: Guard
   Companies (later Squadrons), Military Police Companies (Aviation), and Air Base Security
   Battalions.
   2.1.3. Guard Squadrons were organized to provide law enforcement and perform interior
   guard duties on stateside air bases. These units were usually formed from base personnel
   who had little or no formal police or security training and, because the various overseas
   theaters had priority for manpower, were often undermanned. Although a school for Guard
   officers was established at Miami Army Air Field, FL, and a military police school was set
   up at Buckley Field, CO, until these schools could carry the training load some local
   commanders provided their own specialized training to their Guard Squadrons. In September
   1942, at Sioux Falls, SD, the base commander set up an intensive six week course for the
   929th Guard Squadron covering skills such as first aid, defense against airborne attack, map
   reading, interior and prisoner guard duty, combat tactics, field fortifications, camouflage, and
   anti-tank measures. To augment the 929th‘s scant manpower, the base commander, also,
   assigned the 811th Technical Training Squadron to military police duties. Not until 1943 did
   the 929th have sufficient manpower assigned to be able to actually train properly and perform
   its duties without augmentation.
   2.1.4. The duties performed by the Guard Squadrons stateside were performed overseas by
   Military Police Companies (Aviation). Forty-seven MP (Aviation) Companies were formed
   by the end of 1942. They had their own Table of Organization and Equipment and were
   composed of mounted and motorized patrol sections, a traffic and gate section, a desk and
   record section, and a criminal investigative section. MP (Aviation) Companies performed
   the normal duties of military police on Army Air Force bases and reported to the Corps of
   Military Police that had responsibility for these units‘ logistical support and training. The
   MP (Aviation) Training Camp was established at Camp Ripley, MN, in May 1942. The
   camp provided training for individuals and units and included courses for AAF officers,
8                                                          AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


    enlisted men, provost marshals, and MP company commanders. That same year stateside MP
    (Aviation) Companies were re-designated as Guard Squadrons.
    2.1.5. Air Base Security Battalions, formed to be the Army Air Force‘s ―infantry,‖ marked
    the first recognition that air bases in combat theaters required specially trained and equipped
    defenders. These battalions can rightfully claim the distinction of being the ancestors of
    today‘s Air Force Security Forces units. Designed to protect air bases against riots,
    parachute attacks, and air raids, air base security battalions were equipped with small arms,
    machine guns, mortars, grenade launchers, rocket launchers (―bazookas‖), half-tracks, self-
    propelled 75mm. guns, and even light tanks. Unlike the MP (Aviation) Companies and
    Guard Squadrons, which focused on interior police or law enforcement duties common to the
    Military Police, the ABS units and their combat security mission were unique to the AAF.
    2.1.6. As World War II progressed, Army Air Force military police and base security
    responsibilities expanded. This expansion led the Army to create a separate provost
    marshal‘s office for the Air Forces. This was done on March 29, 1943 and Colonel H. G.
    Reynolds was named the Air Provost Marshal by General Henry H. Arnold marking what the
    Air Force Security Forces celebrate as its birth date.
    2.1.7. On July 26, 1947, President Harry Truman signed the National Security Act of 1947
    into law. This Act authorized the creation of the United States Air Force, which would take
    over the personnel, aircraft, and mission of the AAF including the MP force that would
    eventually become the United States Air Force Security Forces.
    2.1.8. By September 26, 1947, all Army Air Corps officers were officially transferred to the
    United States Air Force. Included in this transfer were all military police officers then
    serving in MP (Aviation) Companies along with the personnel of the Army Air Forces Air
    Provost Marshal‘s (APM) Office. On 2 January 1948, General Order No. 1, HQ USAF
    designated these units and the individuals serving under them as ―Air Police‖ and established
    the Air Provost Marshal. Colonel Joseph V. Dillon became the first Air Provost Marshal of
    the United States Air Force.
    2.1.9. Approximately twenty-two MP companies were converted en mass to Air Police
    squadrons, although the designation of Air Police did not come into use until November
    1948. The transfer of personnel was to be completed by December 1948, but was not
    actually finished until 1953. Until then many Air Police squadrons actually contained Army
    military policemen on duty with, but not actually members of, the Air Force. It would be
    April 1952 before Army grade titles were finally abandoned and Army Military Occupation
    Specialty Codes were replaced by Air Force Specialty Codes.
    2.1.10. The late 1940s and 1950s saw SF members begin to establish their own identity and
    take on career field and Air Force specific tasks. During the late 1940‘s, APM duties were
    established in separate military occupational specialties or career specialties assembled in a
    career field. However, unlike the Army Air Corps concept, there was no centrally directed
    organization or centrally prescribed method of operation. Staffing and organizational
    requirements were established according to local conditions. The guidelines, issued by HQ
    USAF, established broad policies but did not set specific standards or security requirements.
    2.1.11. In the initial stages of the Korean War, American and South Korean forces were ill-
    prepared and were forced to fall back hurriedly in the face of the communist onslaught. Air
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                      9


   bases in forward areas found themselves suddenly overrun by the enemy. In many instances,
   Air Police were the only armed force on the base. These experiences led to the decision that
   the Air Force needed to develop a more extensive base defense capability by concentrating
   on the training of Air Police who would then train other members of the Air Force.
   2.1.12. On 1 September 1950, the first Air Police school was established at Tyndall AFB,
   FL. In 1952, the Air Council approved the development of an air base defense capability to
   be placed under the direction of the APM. As a result, the AP school was transferred to
   Parks AFB, CA and re-designated as the ―Air Base Defense School‖. The base defense
   training effort was discontinued in 1956, when it became evident the program as envisioned
   was not making significant headway. On 13 October 1956, Air Police training was
   transferred to Lackland AFB, TX, where it became home to Security Police training and
   continues there to this day as the Security Forces Academy.
2.2. The 1960s; Vietnam and Air Base Defense
   2.2.1. During the 1950‘s, the growing emphasis on massive nuclear retaliation gave rise to
   the present mission concept of providing security to our combat ready weapons systems.
   This led to the formation of protective standards versus the previous practice of individual
   commanders solely determining the utilization of the base police. In the 1960‘s the name
   ―Air Provost Marshal‖ was dropped in favor of ―Director of Security and Law Enforcement,‖
   a title reflecting the actual responsibilities involved in the job.
   2.2.2. Staff Sergeant Terrance Jensen was the first Air Policeman killed in action during the
   Vietnam Conflict on July 1, 1965, while supervising flight line security at Da Nang Air Base.
   Sergeant Jensen was conducting post checks on troops who were working isolated posts at
   night, when he and a sentry, A1C Albert Handy, were surprised by a small force of saboteurs.
   He only had enough time to shout a few instructions to A1C Handy and fire several rounds at
   the intruders before he was fatally engaged by superior firepower. At the time, Air Police
   leadership had been promoting the use of canine teams and felt the tragedy might have been
   avoided had they been authorized to employ canines. Approximately two weeks later, 40
   canine teams were shipped to Vietnam as part of a test program called ―Top Dog‖. Within
   two months, 149 additional canine teams were deployed.
   2.2.3. In 1966, the name of the career field was changed from Air Police to Security Police.
   This term was considered descriptive, concise, and uniformly applicable; it combined the two
   main mission elements; police and security functions.
   2.2.4. The demands of the Vietnam War led to the creation of Operation SAFE SIDE in
   1967. This was an effort to bolster protection of air bases by training Security Police in light
   infantry tactics and special weapons. Many of the lessons learned during this time are the
   basis of today‘s Force Protection doctrine.
      2.2.4.1. Through Operation SAFE SIDE, the 1041st Security Police Squadron (Test) was
      formed to train for operational deployment to South East Asia and to acquire the
      experience necessary to develop Air Force doctrine on base defense. After extensive
      training, the unit was deployed to Phu Cat Air Base, Republic of Vietnam, in January
      1967.
      2.2.4.2. The 1041 SPS established observation and listening posts, conducted recon and
      ambush patrols, and provided mobile response forces. The success of this special unit led
 10                                                       AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


      to the development of ground combat skills training for Security Police and the evolution
      of the 82nd Combat Security Police Wing.
   2.2.5. Battle of Tan Son Nhut
      2.2.5.1. The biggest test of Security Police combat effectiveness came during the
      Vietnam Tet Offensive on January 31, 1968. It was a Vietnamese holiday and so no
      enemy activity was expected. On that day Tan Son Nhut Air Base, was attacked by a
      force of over seven Viet Cong and North Vietnamese Army Battalions, totaling more
      than 2,500 enemy troops.
      2.2.5.2. The attack on Tan Son Nhut started shortly after 0300 with small arms fire being
      directed at various positions on the base. Heavy fighting commenced soon thereafter
      with extensive enemy fire concentrating on the west perimeter of the base. Blowing a
      hole in the west fence line, the enemy penetrated the base.
      2.2.5.3. A five-man team positioned in Bunker 051 held off the enemy assault long
      enough for backup forces to respond and prevent further penetration of the base. Four of
      the five men in Bunker 051 lost their lives but saved countless others by their fierce
      resistance of the enemy attack. The men of Bunker 051 were Sergeants Louis Fisher,
      William Cyr, Charles Hebron, Roger Mills, and Alonzo Coggins (the only survivor). For
      several hours, the enemy occupied the bunker and used it against the defending Security
      Police forces. The Security Police forces fired constantly at the position, keeping the
      enemy pinned down. Army and Security Police forces worked together to eventually
      retake Bunker 051 and subsequently forced the enemy to retreat. All five men were
      awarded the Silver Star for their defense of Tan Son Nhut Air Base.
   2.2.6. The Vietnam Conflict changed the threat to air bases and pointed out the need, under
   insurgent or limited war conditions, for revised doctrine. Specifically a ―whole base‖
   protective system was needed, rather than one centered solely on weapons systems. There
   were no front lines, no clearly defined battle zones, and no safe ―rear areas‖. The North
   Vietnamese targeted air bases on a regular basis and destroyed a large number of aircraft. In
   1965, each base was made responsible for its own protection, freeing Army maneuver units
   for other missions.
2.3. The 1970s: Change begins
   2.3.1. In March 1971, the enlisted career field was divided into two separate specialties,
   Security and Law Enforcement. This concept provided specialized training and the use of
   specific abilities. This resulted in the establishment of Security Police as a ―Category A‖
   career field for formal training requirements. This important career field milestone meant all
   Security Police personnel received formal training before being assigned to a unit. The split
   was, also, made to improve the professionalism of the law enforcement and nuclear security
   forces and allow for the expertise maturation needed to perform both specialties.
   2.3.2. Another milestone was reached in November 1971, when 12 female Airmen entered
   Law Enforcement specialist training at the Security Police Academy at Lackland AFB, TX.
   In November 1976, 100 female volunteers were selected for security specialist training in a
   test to determine the suitability of employing women in ―combat‖ related jobs. The
   graduating women were assigned to security duties at stateside and overseas bases; however,
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                   11


   the program was phased out after a short period. Participants were allowed to retrain,
   including may who transitioned to the law enforcement career field.
   2.3.3. The first time Security Police were tasked with a high priority rescue mission was in
   May 1975, when the S.S. Mayaguez merchant ship was seized by Khmer Rouge communist
   forces in Cambodia. When diplomatic efforts failed to secure the release of the Mayaguez, a
   force of Security Policemen from each of the four bases in the region assembled at U-Tapao
   Royal Thai Naval Airfield along with elements of the 21st Special Operations Squadron and
   40th Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Squadron, to recapture the ship and rescue the ship's
   crew. During the assembly, one of the rescue helicopters carrying a crew of four, a linguist,
   and eighteen Security Policemen, crashed shortly after takeoff from Nakhon Phanom AB,
   plummeting into a thickly wooded area and exploding. A trailing CH-53C "Jolly Green"
   helicopter landed and dismounted its Security Police force to assist the crew of the downed
   aircraft. After the crash a decision was made to employ a USMC assault element rather than
   the SP force. The 18 Security Policemen who perished in the crash were long listed as
   having died in a training accident although all were awarded posthumous Bronze Stars with a
   "V" for Valor.
   2.3.4. The shift commander program was introduced into the career field in 1975. The
   purpose of the program was to provide continuous support by a Security Forces
   commissioned officer to Security Forces on duty. The shift commander is responsible for
   making critical decisions and judgments in situations during the tour of duty and is a visible
   Security Forces authority to the base at all times.
2.4. The 1980s:
   2.4.1. During the period from 1981 to 1989, Ground Launched Cruise Missiles (GLCM)
   were developed, staged and deployed throughout Europe. This highly mobile, extremely
   destructive, and easily concealable weapons system directly influenced Eastern Bloc
   countries to withdraw their nuclear missiles (SS-20 and SS-21) from neighboring countries.
   During GLCM deployments, Security Police were the pivotal element for safety and
   protection of this important weapon system.
   2.4.2. In 1983, Operation URGENT FURY kicked off in Grenada. Grenada, one of the
   smallest independent nations in the Western Hemisphere and one of the southernmost
   Caribbean islands in the Windward chain, has an area of only 133 square miles. The Cuban
   government knew the value of Grenada's location when it decided to utilize the former
   British colony, complete with a major airport, as a holding place for arms and military
   equipment. Eastern Caribbean nations fully understood the implication of the communist
   threat and called upon the United States for help. The response was URGENT FURY, a
   multinational, multi-service effort. Security Police units were among the first U.S. forces to
   arrive. SP units were tasked with securing air landing strips and control of Enemy Prisoners
   of War.
   2.4.3. In January 1985, Secretary of the Air Force Verne Orr lifted the ban on women in the
   security field. In February 1985, the first female security specialist since 1976 entered the
   career field. Women now serve in Security Forces throughout the career field, including
   Security Forces Managers and Air Force Major Command Division Chiefs. Another
   milestone was reached in 2006 when the first female Security Forces general officer,
 12                                                       AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


   Brigadier General (now Major General) Mary Kay Hertog, was selected as USAF Director of
   Security Forces.
   2.4.4. In 1987, the Air Base Ground Defense School moved from Camp Bullis, TX to Ft.
   Dix, NJ when the Army assumed responsibility for training SF personnel in ground combat
   skills. Security Forces personnel were integrated in each instructor team to maintain an Air
   Force presence during the training.
   2.4.5. Operation JUST CAUSE, the U.S. invasion of Panama in December 1989, brought a
   quick and decisive end to the dictatorial regime of General Manuel Antonio Noriega, the
   country‘s political strongman and commander of the Panamanian Defense Forces.
   Approximately 27,000 American troops hit twenty-seven targets in Panama on December 20,
   achieving most of the stated combat objectives within hours. Of these targets, many were
   located in Panama‘s two principal cities, Colón and Panama City, thereby providing the U.S.
   military its first significant experience in urban operations since Vietnam. Again, Security
   Police units were tasked with securing landing strips. Those units also participated in drug
   interdiction and humanitarian relief.
   2.4.6. Sergeant Sean P. Davis of Langley AFB‘s 1st SPS was assigned to Albrook AB as part
   of the defense for HQ U.S. Southern Command. As the invasion of Panama City began,
   Sergeant Davis and an assistant gunner were posted with an M-60 machine gun on the
   second floor of a building overlooking one of Albrook‘s two entry gates. ―All of a sudden,‖
   Sergeant Davis later recalled, ―we saw this car with a PDF badge pull up and someone inside
   the vehicle started shooting at the gate guards.‖ Responding to his training, Sergeant Davis in
   what ―wasn‘t a conscious thought‖ flipped off the safety and engaged the vehicle with
   7.62mm rounds as his assistant gunner fired from an adjoining window with his M-16.
   ―They really didn‘t have much hope,‖ Sergeant Davis observed. The next morning Sergeant
   Davis‘s assistant went outside to take a look and called to Sergeant Davis to come outside.
   Looking up at the window from where he had been firing his M-60, Sergeant Davis saw
   bullet holes all around it. ―I had seen the tracers,‖ Sergeant Davis admitted, ―but I never
   gave it a thought.‖ For his actions that evening, Davis received a Bronze Star.
   2.4.7. November 9, 1989 was the day the Berlin Wall fell. Even though the wall was not
   completely demolished for another two years, this date ceremonially marked the end of the
   cold war. Security Forces played a major role in this victory. All across American and
   overseas, stoic defenders guarded this country‘s nuclear arsenal often in some of the worst
   weather imaginable. The close in sentry walking the nose of a B-52 in a raging snow storm
   sums up the selfless sacrifice of the cold war defender. Without Security Forces members
   guarding our nuclear missile sites, our alert bombers, and MUNS sites this victory would not
   have been possible.
2.5. The 1990s: The Gulf War Era
   2.5.1. The 1990s pointed out the need for a highly trained and mobile expeditionary force
   capable of deploying anywhere at any time to defend Air Force personnel and resources.
   Operation DESERT STORM found Security Police involved in war on a large scale on
   foreign soil for the first time since the Vietnam conflict.
   2.5.2. In August of 1990, Operation DESERT SHIELD began. The objective was the
   defense of Saudi Arabia in the wake of the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq. In January 1991,
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                   13


  DESERT SHIELD turned into Operation DESERT STORM with the objective of liberating
  Kuwait from Iraqi occupation. During Operations DESERT SHIELD and DESERT STORM
  Security Police personnel were tasked with securing air bases, providing dignitary support,
  securing classified information and resources, and counter-terrorism.
  2.5.3. In August of 1995, Air Base Defense Training moved back to Camp Bullis, Texas,
  and was once again under control of the Air Force. Operation JOINT ENDEAVOR in
  Bosnia also began in 1995. There Security Forces units conducted convoy operations and
  acted as a peacekeeping force.
  2.5.4. On June 25, 1996, three Security Police members, Staff Sergeant Alfredo Guerrero,
  Senior Airman Corey Grice, and Airmen First Class Christopher Wager were on sentry duty
  on the roof of a dormitory at Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia. Just after 2200 hrs, they
  noticed a suspicious vehicle pull up outside the compound‘s northern perimeter fence and the
  occupants suddenly run away. Suspecting terrorist activity, Sergeant Guerrero directed the
  evacuation of the building. The vehicle exploded approximately three and one half minutes
  later, leaving 19 Airmen dead and more than 260 injured in its wake. The three Defenders
  continued to evacuate wounded and assist with first aid after the explosion. Their quick
  reaction was credited with saving numerous lives and preventing further loss of personnel.
  All three earned the Airman‘s Medal.
  2.5.5. The bombing of Khobar Towers prompted then Secretary of the Air Force, Dr. Sheila
  Widnall to state, ―…our review of the facts and circumstances surrounding it (the bombing)
  has drastically altered the way the Air Force thinks about, prepares for and defends threats
  to the safety of our forces.‖ In light of that changed environment, the Air Force directed
  actions to ensure Force Protection changes were instituted to meet those threats. On October
  31, 1997, the Security Specialist, Law Enforcement Specialist, and Combat Arms Training
  and Maintenance career fields merged into one career field called ―Security Forces.‖ The
  Security Forces career field merger was necessary because the previous organization was
  designed for a situation that no longer existed: The Cold War. During that lengthy
  contingency and the relative mission stability derived from a clearly defined threat/mission,
  Security Police could afford the luxury of highly specialized personnel performing singular
  skills at fixed locations. The Security Forces, new mission became ―Force Protection‖. This
  mission knows no boundaries of responsibility and varies by degree at different locations
  based upon the threat. Additionally, Security Forces members must be prepared to perform
  non-traditional missions such as humanitarian relief, nation building, or migrant/refugee
  camp security. In response to the ever changing threat and the increasingly expeditionary
  nature of the Air Force, Security Forces made a number of organizational changes in 1997.
     2.5.5.1. The 820th Security Forces Group (SFG), commanded by Lieutenant Colonel
     Larry Buckingham, was activated on 17 March 1997 at Lackland AFB, TX. The 820th
     was specifically designed to deploy to a location with the initial deployment of forces, set
     up defenses, turn the mission over to follow-on forces within 90 days, and redeploy to
     home base to wait for their next tasking. To provide this capability the 820th could draw
     on seven 48-person security flights from seven different commands based at Westover
     ARB, MA (AFRC), McGuire AFB, NJ (AMC), Eglin AFB, FL (AFMC), Lackland
     AFB, TX (AETC), El Paso ANGB, TX, Davis Monthan AFB, AZ (ACC), and
     Vandenberg AFB, CA (AFSPC). The group was designed to be multifunctional,
     therefore only half of its 68 headquarters manpower authorizations were Security Forces;
 14                                                        AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


      the remainder came from fields such as Office of Special Investigation, intelligence,
      communications, logistics, transportation, and explosive ordnance disposal. The 820th
      moved to Moody AFB, GA, in 2000 and stood up three permanent squadrons, the 822nd,
      823rd, and 824th Security Forces Squadrons.
      2.5.5.2. In June 1997, the 820th SFG was joined at Lackland AFB, TX, by another new
      organization, the Force Protection Battlelab, commanded by Colonel Donal Collins. It
      was created to ―explore and integrate technology, tactics, and training to increase Force
      Protection readiness.‖ Like the 820th, the battlelab was a multi-disciplinary organization
      integrating Security Forces personnel with experts from the OSI, civil engineering,
      communications, aviation, medical, and contracting fields. The battlelab focused on
      finding off-the-shelf items that could play a role in Force Protection rather than
      developing new systems: ―chasing ideas not technology.‖ Ideas from the troops actually
      performing the security mission were actively solicited.
      2.5.5.3. The Air Force Security Police Agency completed its move from Kirtland to a
      facility at Lackland AFB, TX, and officially became the Air Force Security Forces Center
      (AFSFC) on November 12, 1997. The AFSFC was established as a direct reporting unit
      to the Headquarters, USAF, and was to function as the Air Force center of excellence for
      Force Protection. In addition to overseeing the 820th SFG and Force Protection Battlelab,
      the AFSFC had four divisions: operations, plans and programs, corrections, and Force
      Protection. Brigadier General Richard A. Coleman was the moving force behind this
      consolidation at Lackland.
      2.5.5.4. The concept of a ―first in‖ security force was also adopted by Air Mobility
      Command early in 1997 with its Phoenix Raven program. Raven teams of two or more
      personnel reporting to the aircraft commander were assigned to aircraft transiting high
      threat areas and when not performing security duties could assist the aircraft loadmaster
      with cargo handling. The Phoenix Ravens were specially trained volunteers who
      attended an intensive eight day course at the Air Mobility Warfare Center at Fort Dix that
      focused not just on combat skills, but on human relations and international law.
   2.5.6. To meet the new challenges brought on by the Air Force‘s ―Global Reach, Global
   Power‖ mission, many of the Operation SAFE SIDE concepts from the 1960s were brought
   back and combined with today‘s technology. One fundamental addition to the SAFE SIDE
   concept was the Air Force emphasis on Force Protection. Force Protection is a responsibility
   of all Airmen, not just Security Forces. Through innovative concepts such as Integrated
   Defense, further emphasis is placed on the fact that every Airman is a sensor enabling our
   forces to see first, understand first, and act first. In addition, policy decisions from the Air
   Force Security Forces Center and research from the Force Protection Battlelab were
   combined with the operational, first-in capability of the 820th SFG to create a tailored Force
   Protection capability in any location and in any situation.
2.6. The 2000s: The Global War on Terror
   2.6.1. The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the ensuing Global War on Terror
   brought about broad changes in how Security Forces conducted its home station and
   deployed mission. Beginning on September 11, 2001, and continuing through the next year
   the Air Force logged 23,733 total sorties in defense of the airspace of the United States.
   Enhanced security of military facilities was a key part of Operation NOBLE EAGLE, and
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                  15


  contributed to stretching Security Forces capabilities to their maximum. All previous
  planning for Security Forces assumed Force Protection Condition Bravo would be the
  maximum sustained effort needed in the continental United States, but bases were remaining
  at the more labor-intensive Force Protection Condition Charlie as the new standard. This
  heightened security level placed heavy demands on Security Forces personnel due to
  increased installation patrols, identification checks, and vehicle checks.
     2.6.1.1. On September 18, 2001, Congress authorized President George W. Bush to ―use
     all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he
     determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on
     September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any
     future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations,
     organizations or persons.‖ The Taliban government of Afghanistan harbored the
     organizations that attacked the United States. President Bush requested their cooperation
     in apprehending the terrorists and bringing them to justice.
     2.6.1.2. No response was received from Mullah Omar, the leader of the Taliban
     government by the President‘s October 7, 2001, deadline. The President addressed the
     nation and announced that he had ordered an attack on Afghanistan‘s Taliban regime.
     The President noted that ―this military action is a part of our campaign against terrorism,
     another front in a war that has already been joined through diplomacy, intelligence, the
     freezing of financial assets and the arrests of known terrorists by law enforcement agents
     in 38 countries.‖      The military operation launched against the Taliban was called
     Operation ENDURING FREEDOM. On December 16, 2001, members of the 86th
     Contingency Response Group (CRG), including the 786 SFS, from Ramstein AB,
     Germany, labored in the bitter cold of winter to build a base from scratch at Manas
     International Airport, in the former Soviet republic of Kyrgyzstan.
     2.6.1.3. Within three months, 200 tents had been set up and more than 12 million pounds
     of cargo and over 1,000 troops had been processed. The 376th Air Expeditionary Wing
     (AEW) later took over operations from the 86 CRG and the 822 SFS arrived to take over
     security. Along with performing Force Protection duties on base, they went outside the
     wire patrolling nearby villages to conduct counter insurgency operations aimed at
     deterring stand-off attacks and developing a rapport with the villagers.
  2.6.2. On March 19, 2003, the United States opened another front on the war on terrorism
  when it began an aerial bombardment of Iraq to kick off Operation IRAQI FREEDOM. As
  many Security Forces members supported the effort by securing air fields around the world,
  others prepared to enter Iraq itself.
     2.6.2.1. The same day, a 13-person team from the Arizona Air National Guard‘s 161
     SFS, assigned to the 305th Tanker Airlift Control Element from McGuire AFB, NJ,
     moved onto the captured Iraqi Tallil AB near the city of Al Nasiriyah, claiming the honor
     of being the first SF team in Iraq and for Staff Sergeant Dena Brackin the title of ―first
     female Security Forces member in the war zone.‖ Defenders from the 822 SFS, as part of
     the 407 ESFS, soon joined them as part of a convoy from Kuwait.
     2.6.2.2. At 2015Z March 26, 2003, Air Force history was made when members of the 86
     CRG, including 18 jumpers from the 786 SFS (14 of which were SF. In addition there
     was 1 medic, 1 intel, 1 Fuels, and 1 CE also in the SFS, as they are a multi-AFSC
16                                                       AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


     squadron) under command of Major Erik Rundquist, made the first Air Force combat
     parachute assault along with about 1,000 paratroopers of the Army‘s 173 Airborne
     Brigade onto Bashur Airfield in mountainous northern Iraq. This was also the first
     combat jump made from the C-17 Globemaster transport and was the largest airborne
     assault since Operation JUST CAUSE in 1989. The mission, according to 86 CRG
     Commander Colonel Steven Weart (who jumped into Bashur with his troops) was to
     ―support the 173 Airborne Brigade and its buildup of combat power.‖ As the 86 CRG
     prepared the 7,000-foot runway to receive the first transport aircraft, the group's Security
     Forces controlled the runway and ramp, while 173rd Airborne soldiers and Iraqi Kurd
     Peshmurga fighters protected the airfield's perimeter. By April 9th the approximately 200
     Airmen stationed at Bashur were handling around 1 million pounds of cargo a day.
  2.6.3. Assisting its sister services would require some of the most fundamental changes in
  the Air Force in general and the Security Forces in particular since the creation of the Air
  Force in 1947. Many of these changes were brought about by new, non-traditional missions
  taken on by the Air Force to assist the Army and Marines. One of these new tasks was
  convoy escort duty.
  2.6.3.1. The major aerial port for Iraq was Balad Air Base, 40 miles north of Baghdad.
  From Balad, supplies were distributed to the field by air or military and civilian truck
  convoys under protection of the Army or Marines.
     2.6.3.2. Transport of supplies and personnel in theater was provided by the C-130
     Hercules. Expeditionary Security Forces squadrons throughout the theater of operations
     formed teams of two to four person volunteers for Fly Away Security Teams (FAST) to
     provide protection for the aircraft and crew. Between May and June 2004, the 386 ESFS
     FAST teams, from Ali Al Salem Kuwait, flew on 115 combat missions to 12 different
     countries; escorting more than 5,000 passengers.
     2.6.3.3. In 2004, the Army and Marines requested help from the Air Force to conduct
     ground convoy security. One of the first ―in-lieu of‖ taskings, convoy escort duty, was a
     new mission for the Air Force and gave rise to a new type of organization; the Aerospace
     Expeditionary Force Transportation Company. As a company in the Army model rather
     than a squadron, these organization‘s subunits were designated platoons rather than
     flights and were commanded by senior non-commissioned officers. After training at
     Army bases stateside, the 2632nd Aerospace Expeditionary Transportation Company
     arrived at Balad in April 2004. The Airmen in these special units manned 5-ton gun
     trucks mounting .50 caliber machine guns in makeshift armored turrets. To prepare them
     for this new duty, Security Forces Airmen developed curriculum and trained Airmen at
     the Air Force‘s Basic Combat Convoy Course at Camp Bullis. The training included
     weapons use, tactics, maneuvers, and small-unit and leadership skills to prepare them for
     convoy escort duties. Security Forces also served as escorts themselves. The duty was
     dangerous; convoys were and remain ripe targets for terrorist attacks and improvised
     explosive devices and they have taken a deadly toll.
  2.6.4. On January 1, 2005, Task Force 1041, built around a squadron of the 820 SFG,
  launched Operation Desert Safe Side, a 60-day operation to kill or capture insurgents that had
  bombarded the base at Balad with mortars, some with up to a 6.5 kilometer range. TF 1041
  implemented the aggressive base defense doctrine the Vietnam era 1041 SPS was originally
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                    17


  designed for, but was unable to execute. TF 1041‘s area of operation was one of the region‘s
  most violent areas and encompassed a rectangle 10 kilometers wide and 6 kilometers deep
  stretching from the Balad perimeter to the Tigris River. In 60 days, TF 1041 captured 17
  high value targets (high ranking insurgents and terrorists), eight major weapons caches, 98
  other insurgents and terrorists, and reduced enemy attacks to near zero.
  2.6.5. Another unique mission of Security Forces in Iraq was helping staff US CENTCOM‘s
  largest internment facility at Camp Bucca. SF were part of this truly joint effort (Army and
  Navy forces were also involved) from January 2005 to December 2009. At its peak, the
  facility housed over 20,000 detainees, making it the largest facility of its kind in the world.
  In its compounds, SF were responsible for direct care of detainees which included ensuring
  food, water, and medical care were available. SF, also, helped establish a training course for
  the Iraqi Correctional Officers who worked at their sides. Besides working in a ―corrections
  environment‖ inside the facility, SF helped provide security for the compound. Defenders
  manned towers, conducted perimeter patrols, provided entry control, and provided a Quick
  Reaction Force (QRF). The QRF conducted detainee in-processing, searched the compound
  for contraband, and provided tactical response to disturbances.
  2.6.6. On February 1, 2006, the Air Staff abandoned its traditional two-letter system of
  designating offices in favor of the joint services ―A-staff‖ organization. As part of this
  reorganization, the director of Security Forces and force protection moved from the
  operational side of the house to the mission support side as it realigned from XO to the DCS
  for Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support or A4/7. As part of the realignment and the
  adoption of the ―A-staff‖ organization the director‘s office symbol changed from XOF to
  A7S.
  2.6.7. In August 2006, during the height of sectarian violence in Iraq, Security Forces was
  tasked to train and deploy a Police Transition Team to Baghdad. The mission of the unit was
  to train Iraqi police forces, and help the people of Iraq take back some of the city‘s most
  dangerous neighborhoods from insurgents. The unit accomplished its mission despite being
  the constant target of ambushes, IED attacks, and sniper fire. The initial unit tasked with this
  operation was the 824 SFS from Moody AFB, GA. Subsequent rotations were filled by
  volunteers throughout the Security Forces career field who were brought together to train for
  2 months at an Army Power Projection Platform (PPP) prior to departing for Iraq on a one
  year deployment. A second detachment was tasked, trained, and deployed in January of
  2009 to Mamadia, Iraq, south of Baghdad.
  2.6.8. In the summer of 2008, the 332nd Expeditionary Security Forces Group stood up at
  Balad AB, Iraq, the most important hub for air activity in the Iraq Theater of Operations.
  This marked the first time since the Vietnam War that Security Forces assumed full
  responsibility for the security of a major air base in a combat zone. The unit, which numbers
  close to 1,000 members (over 600 SF plus coalition forces), provides all interior security,
  entry control, and air provost services to the base. Additionally, the group supports the
  outside-the-wire mission with Defenders who have received extensive specialized training at
  the 99th Ground Combat Training Squadron, Creech AFB, NV.
  2.6.9. The publication of the new AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, in October of 2009
  represented a transformational change in the way Security Forces protects Air Force
  resources. Prior SF doctrine mandated a resource focus that required directive-based
 18                                                      AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


   compliance to secure our assets. It‘s a Cold War paradigm that was not in line with the
   current threat environment. By shifting to a threat-focused, capabilities-based perspective,
   defense of resources transforms from a directive-centric operation that is ownerless to a
   capabilities-based operation focused on deterring and defeating threats. The high operations
   tempo and ever changing threat have stretched SF resources to the maximum. The Integrated
   Defense Risk Management Process implemented in 31-101 gives commanders a tool to
   determine how to best use their scarce resources to deliver enduring integrated defense
   against threats to the Air Force mission.
   2.6.10. As of January 2010, eight Security Forces members have lost their lives in the Global
   War on Terror; First Lieutenant Joseph D. Helton Jr., Airmen First Class Elizabeth N.
   Jacobson, Staff Sergeant Brian McElroy, Technical Sergeant Jason L. Norton, Airmen First
   Class Leebernard E. Chavis, Staff Sergeant John Self, Senior Airmen Jason D. Nathan, and
   Staff Sergeant Travis L. Griffin.
2.7. Security Forces Air Force Cross Recipients. The Air Force Cross is the second highest
military decoration that can be awarded to a member of the United States Air Force and is
awarded for extraordinary heroism not justifying the award of the Medal of Honor. It may be
awarded to any person who, while serving in any capacity with the U.S Air Force, distinguishes
him or herself by extraordinary heroism in combat. In the entire history of the Security Forces
career field, there have been only two Security Forces members awarded the Air Force Cross.
   2.7.1. Captain Reginald Maisey was assigned as the Operations Officer, 3rd Security Police
   Squadron. During the 31 January 1968 Tet Offensive attack on Bien Hoa Air Base, at
   0320hrs, a radio call came to CSC reporting a penetration of the base perimeter. Eight
   companies of the 274th VC Regiment were attacking the east and southeast perimeter of Bien
   Hoa and 300 to 500 men were surging toward Bunker Hill 10, trying to get to the flight line
   beyond it. The commander of the 3rd Security Police Squadron, Lt Col Kent Miller, sent
   Captain Maisey to Bunker Hill 10 to direct area defense forces. Despite being wounded, he
   continued to direct forces inside and outside the bunker, repelling the enemy advance. At
   approximately 0430, Captain Maisey was hit by an enemy rocket as it exploded against one
   of the bunker‘s firing slits. The force of the blast hit him in the back and killed him.
   Because of his ―supreme courage and undaunted leadership‖ under fire, Capt Maisey was
   posthumously awarded the Air Force Cross, becoming the first non-aviator to receive the
   nation‗s second highest decoration.
   2.7.2. Capt Garth Wright was assigned as the Weapons System Security Officer, 35th
   Security Police Squadron. On 26 January 1969, at 0032 hours a reported base perimeter
   breach was confirmed when a firefight began. Captain Wright and six additional Security
   Policemen were directed to reinforce the perimeter sentries and attempt to flank the enemy.
   While sweeping toward the perimeter breach, Captain Wright engaged enemy personnel,
   killing one man who was discovered to have a grenade in his hand and sacks of grenades tied
   around his waist. At the end of the engagement, sixteen enemy personnel were dead and one
   wounded prisoner was taken. Credited with ―extraordinary coolness under fire‖ and
   preventing ―hostile forces from overrunning the base,‖ Captain Garth Wright became the
   second Security Policeman to be awarded the Air Force Cross.
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                  19


                                          Chapter 3

 MILITARY WORKING DOG, COMBAT ARMS TRAINING AND MAINTENANCE,
      CORRECTIONS, AND REGIONAL TRAINING CENTER PROGRAMS

3.1. The Military Working Dog (MWD) Program.
   3.1.1. People have used dogs to protect themselves and property since prehistoric times.
   Military forces have used trained dogs the world over since the first military units were
   organized. Canines were used in warfare throughout history supporting combat operations.
   From these ancient beginnings, over 30,000 dogs have served in the US military in harm‘s
   way and are responsible for saving thousands of lives.
   3.1.2. The United States did not make extensive use of dogs prior to 1942. In early 1943,
   Mr. James M. Austin organized the War Dog program and by that July, more than 11,000
   dogs had been procured. On May 1, 1957, the responsibility to train sentry dogs was taken
   over by the Air Force from the Army. The first dog school was established at Lackland
   AFB, TX, where it remains to this day as the DoD Military Working Dog School. The
   school is responsible for procuring all dogs for the DoD and training dogs and handlers for
   all branches of the military.
   3.1.3. Military working dogs proved they are ―War Dogs‖ on many occasions during combat
   action in Vietnam. In the predawn hours of December 4, 1966, Tan Son Nhut AB was
   attacked by a large force of Viet Cong (VC) commando raiders. The raiders used a single
   avenue of approach through friendly force positions outside the base perimeter. Once inside
   the base, the raiders divided into small groups to attack their targets. Several sentry dogs
   stationed on the perimeter gave the initial alert and warning almost simultaneously. Because
   of this early warning, the 377th Air Police Squadron was able to repel the attack after seven
   long hours of fighting. When the battle was over, 13 Viet Cong and one Security Policeman,
   who was trying to save his supervisor, were dead and one canine handler was wounded.
   Many of the remaining VC took refuge in vegetation, wells, and local graveyards to wait for
   the opportunity to escape or attack again.
   3.1.4. Around 1900 hrs, MWD Nemo alerted his handler Airman Second Class Robert A.
   Thorneburg to the presence of VC who had avoided earlier detection. During the attack, a
   bullet caught Airman Thorneburg on his shoulder and Nemo was hit in the muzzle area, but
   not before Nemo killed at least one VC raider. Ignoring his serious head wound, the 85-
   pound dog threw himself at the VC guerillas who had opened fire. Nemo‘s ferocious defense
   bought Airman Thorneburg the time he needed to call upon back up forces. Finally, the QRT
   members were able to carry Thorneburg and Nemo out to safety where they received
   emergency treatment. Both recovered; however, Nemo was permanently disfigured and lost
   the use of one eye. Nemo was credited with saving his handler‘s life and preventing further
   destruction of life and property. On June 23, 1967, HQ USAF directed Nemo be returned to
   Lackland AFB, TX, as the first sentry dog officially retired from military service. Nemo was
   only one of the many dogs who served, and continue to serve, faithfully and honorably in the
   United States Air Force.
   3.1.5. In May 2004, the first 12 Air Force Patrol/Explosive Detector Dog (PEDD) teams
   were attached to the Marine Corps to help support the needs of line infantry companies
 20                                                      AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


   combating enemy insurgents in Iraq. Some of the roles these teams filled were as combat
   patrol pointmen, traffic control point vehicle search teams, Improvised Explosive Device
   detectors, and explosive cache search teams. These PEDD teams served in several
   operations including Operation PHANTOM FURY in November 2004 when the city of
   Fallujah was captured from insurgent forces who had taken the city from its inhabitants
   through fear and murder.
   3.1.6. On April 4, 2005, the Specialized Service Dogs (SSD) program was established in an
   effort to counter IEDs. The SSD is an explosive detector dog only with advanced training to
   work off-leash at an extended distance away from the handler. These MWDs have
   personality traits that differ from most MWDs that are trained to attack. These dogs are not
   trained to bite and are capable of working in large crowds without the concern the MWD will
   attack civilians. As contingency operations change, the MWD program will continue to
   adapt to meet the needs of the mission.
3.2. The Combat Arms Program.
   3.2.1. The experience of the Korean War encouraged General Curtis LeMay to change the
   way weapons training was conducted in the Air Force. In 1958, the USAF selected 25
   experienced competitive shooters to become the initial instructor cadre of the USAF
   Marksmanship Center located at Lackland AFB, TX, where it remains active today.
   3.2.2. The marksmanship program was designed by Colonel Tom Kelly and initially under
   the direction of Colonel Peter Agnell. The original cadre attended the Army's advanced rifle
   marksmanship coaches class at Ft. Benning, GA, from January 26 to February 15, 1958. The
   three-week training course included coaching techniques, range management, and procedures
   for the preparation of marksmanship training programs. The purpose of the initial cadre was
   to train Small Arms instructors and gunsmiths for assignment to all Air Force bases. With
   these personnel as a core for the newly formed USAF Marksmanship Center, bases
   throughout the world began selecting personnel to be sent to the center for training. On
   November 5, 1958, the first class of 32 students began training. The initial course was 12
   weeks in duration and graduated qualified small arms instructors who returned to their bases
   to establish local marksmanship programs. The new instructors were awarded the AFSC
   753X0 and the expanded program included intensive training for aircrews, Air Police, and
   Air Base Defense personnel to improve the overall weapons capability of all Air Force
   personnel.
   3.2.3. In 1965, the USAF Marksmanship unit's name was formally changed to the Small
   Arms Marksmanship Training Unit. This name change better described the types of weapons
   the career field was responsible to train. Besides meeting local training objectives and
   conducting competitive rifle and pistol matches, Small Arms specialists set up and operated
   specialty courses.
   3.2.4. In 1982, Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM) was placed under the
   operational control of Security Police units and, as previously mentioned, became part of the
   unified Security Forces career field in 1997.
3.3. Air Force Corrections Programs
   3.3.1. The Air Provost Marshal formation. Many are aware the Air Force conducts courts-
   martial‘s [a military court of justice] however, few know the Air Force operates its own
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                      21


  confinement system. With the creation of the Air Force in 1947, the Air Force correctional
  system was placed under the Air Provost Marshal Activities Department. During this time,
  the first instruction on Corrections was established with the publication of Air Force Manual
  125-2, Administration and Operation of Confinement Facilities and the Treatment and
  Retraining of Prisoners (currently, known as AFI 31-205, Air Force Corrections System). In
  February 1948, the Air Provost Marshal proposed to the Air Adjutant General the
  establishment of four retraining centers (later reduced to one centralized facility) because the
  average base guardhouse (jail) could not provide the type of social and military therapy to the
  most junior of the offenders. On October 24, 1951, Headquarters General Order No. 17,
  activated the 3320th Retraining Group on Amarillo Air Force Base, Texas. The primary
  mission of the Group was to rehabilitate and restore to duty those with minor offenses who
  showed potential. The first trainee arrived in February 1952 and the Group returned 500
  trainees to duty in the first two years saving induction and technical training costs. This
  forward leaning proposal was obviously well under way when later in the same year
  Congress passed several laws specifically relating to military confinement and rehabilitation.
  The most sweeping changes were Title 10, United States Code, Sections 951 and 953, which
  required corrective rather than punitive treatment of military inmates and to offer the
  opportunity for restoration to duty. In 1953, the Air Force incarcerated 4,798 prisoners in
  119 CONUS confinement facilities, each with different standards highlighting the lack of a
  centrally managed infrastructure. By the end of 1954, the high number of confinees and lack
  of proper facilities dictated the creation of the Air Police Correctional Specialist career field,
  AFSC 771X1 and a Civil Engineer construction blueprint template for base jails Air Force
  wide. In 1968, Congress closed Amarillo AFB and on October 1, 1968 the Air Force moved
  the 3320th Retraining Group to Lowry AFB, Colorado, where the training became to know as
  the Air Force Return-to-Duty Program. Effective June 15, 1976, the 3320th Retraining Group
  was more appropriately renamed the 3320th Corrections and Rehabilitation Group.
     3.3.1.1. In 1971, the Air Force established a new squadron under the 3320th Retraining
     Group, the 3320th Corrections and Rehabilitation Squadron (CRS) at Lowry AFB. The
     3320 CRS had a 154-bed Level II facility, which housed Air Force inmates with
     sentences from 1-5 years. Also that year Detachment 1, 3320 CRS stood up at the US
     Disciplinary Barracks (USDB) at Ft Leavenworth, Kansas with a staff of 105 whose
     duties included medical, administrative and guard functions. In 1992, the 3320th CRS
     function transferred to the Air Force Office of Security Police (AFOSP) at Kirtland AFB,
     New Mexico, and stood up a Corrections Division with Branches for Personnel,
     Rehabilitation and Inmate Management. AFOSP would be renamed Air Force Security
     Police Agency (AFSPA) in 1993 and subsequently renamed Headquarters Air Force
     Security Forces Center (HQ AFSFC) and relocated to Lackland AFB, TX, in 1997.
     3.3.1.2. In 1993, in anticipation of Congress‘ pending closure of Lowry AFB, the
     AFSPA stood down the 3320th Corrections and Rehabilitation Group. Simultaneously,
     AFSPA moved the Lowry AFB Level II correctional functions, under a joint agreement
     with the Navy, to Naval Air Station Miramar (now Marine Corps Air Station Miramar),
     California and Naval Weapons Station Charleston (now Joint Base Charleston), South
     Carolina, sharing a portion of their two Level II facilities. To operate this mission
     realignment AFSPA stood up two new Detachments, placing Detachment 2 at Miramar
     and Detachment 3 at Charleston each with a staff of 28 and 33 personnel respectively.
 22                                                         AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


      Dets 2 and 3 each contained specialists from the following career fields; Security Police,
      Mental Health, Personnel, Administration, Communications and special duty Military
      Training Leaders. That same year the Air Force Return-to-Duty Program moved to
      Charleston where it remained until 2007 when it was relocated to Lackland AFB, TX,
      under the HQ AFSFC/ Corrections Division (HQ AFSFC/SFC). Also, in 1993, the DoD
      reorganized the mission of the USDB and made the Army the DoD Executive Agent for
      this sole Level III facility. As a result, AFSPA reduced Detachment1 to a liaison staff of
      six.
   3.3.2. Today the Air Force continues to centralize the key functions of Corrections under one
   manager at HQ AFSFC which includes AFSCs for personnel, finance, security forces,
   training and rehabilitation. These HQ staff members assist field units by performing highly
   specialized actions necessary to comply with Federal Law, as well as, DoD and AF
   Instruction for the incarceration, treatment, and processing of pretrial detainees and post trial
   inmates under military jurisdiction. These actions assist the field to fulfill their primary
   mission - to Fly, Fight, and Win.
3.4. Regional Training Centers.
   3.4.1. Regional Training Centers (RTC) were originally developed to provide continuation
   and mission specific combat skills training for the MAJCOMs they supported. Training at
   each RTC was based on SF core concepts, but each RTC focused on the mission of their
   parent MAJCOM. RTCs operated this way until 2006 when HQ AFSFC hosted an event to
   streamline the master training plan and developed a list of common tasks, conditions and
   standards for each of the common tasks and standardized lesson plans. The overall goal was
   to ensure SF members who deploy anywhere in the world, whether from the same base or
   from different bases, would have similar training and a common operational picture.
   3.4.2. The Global War on Terror (now Overseas Contingency Operations) brought about a
   number of changes to Security Forces operations, which impacted training requirements.
   Now, every Security Forces member identified for deployment must attend a RTC or other
   pre-deployment training site to receive training tailored to that specific deployment. Other
   training sites may include, but are not limited to, MAJCOM training sites or Army PPPs.
   3.4.3. MAJCOM training centers:
      3.4.3.1. ACC, 99 GCTS, Creech AFB, NV. Program name is Silver Flag Alpha.
      3.4.3.2. AFMC, 96 GCTS, Eglin AFB, FL. Program name is Brave Defender.
      3.4.3.3. AFGSC, 90 GCTS, Camp Guernsey, WY.
      3.4.3.4. AMC, 421st Combat Training Squadron, Fort Dix, NJ. Program name is Phoenix
      Warrior.
      3.4.3.5. PACAF, 736 SFS, Andersen AFB, Guam. Program name is Commando Warrior.
      3.4.3.6. USAFE, 786 SFS, Sembach Annex, Germany. Program name is Creek
      Defender.
      3.4.3.7. AFRC, 610 SFS, Ft. Wolters, TX. Program name is Patriot Defender.
      3.4.3.8. Air National Guard, 204 SFS, Ft. Bliss, TX. Program name is Desert Defender.
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                  23


3.5. The Security Forces career field has been shaped by many events and people, too
numerous to mention in detail in this manual. There are excellent publications, however, that
go into more specifics. Several such publications are Snakes in the Eagles Nest, A History of
Ground Attacks on Air Bases by Alan Vick; Check Six Begins on the Ground, Responding to the
Evolving Ground Threat to U.S. Air Force Bases by David A. Shlapak and Alan Vick; War
Dogs, A History of Loyalty and Heroism by Michael G. Lemish; and Air Base Defense in The
Republic of Vietnam by Roger P. Fox. These books provide a comprehensive look at air base
attacks and reference several books and research papers that are outstanding sources of
information on Security Forces history and the use of military working dogs. The base library or
historian‘s office are good places to find these and other books on Security Forces history.
Another excellent source of history is the Security Police Museum at Lackland AFB, TX.
Through displays and an abundant catalog of knowledge, it continues to chronicle Security
Forces achievements throughout the world.
3.6. Forms Prescribed.
   3.6.1. None.




                                            LOREN M. RENO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
 24                                                   AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Reference
Defenders of the Force: The History of the United States Air Force Security Forces, 1947 –
2006; Report commissioned by A7S and compiled by Col. (Ret) James L. Conrad and Col. (Ret)
Jerry M. Bullock.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAF— Army Air Force
AB— Air Base
ABS— Air Base Security
ACC— Air Combat Command
AETC— Air Education and Training Command
AEW— Air Expeditionary Wing
AFB— Air Force Base
AFMC— Air Force Mobility Command
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC— Air Force Specialty Code
AFSFC— Air Force Security Forces Center
AFSPC— Air Force Space Command
AMC— Air Mobility Command
ANGB— Air National Guard Bureau
AP— Air Police
APM— Air Provost Marshal
CATM— Combat Arms Training and Maintenance
CRG— Contingency Response Group
DoD— Department of Defense
ESFS— Expeditionary Security Forces Squadron
FAST— Fly Away Security Team
GLCM— Ground Launched Cruise Missile
HQ— Headquarters
ID— Integrated Defense
AFMAN31-201V1 9 AUGUST 2010             25


IED— Improvised Explosive Device
MAJCOM— Major Command
MP— Military Police
MWD— Military Working Dog
OSI— Office of Special Investigations
PACAF— Pacific Air Forces
PDF— Panama Defense Force
PEDD— Patrol Explosive Detection Dog
PPP— Power Projection Platform
QRT— Quick Reaction Team
RTC— Regional Training Center
SPS— Security Police Squadron
SF— Security Forces
SFG— Security Forces Group
SFS— Security Forces Squadron
SSD— Specialized Service Dog
USAF— United States Air Force
VC— Viet Cong
