BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                AIR FORCE MANUAL 91-224
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                              AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND
                                                                               Supplement 1
                                                                                      19 OCTOBER 2005
                                                                           Certified Current 18 June 2014
                                                                                                   Safety

                                                               GROUND SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS
                                                                                AND REPORTS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AETC/SEO (MSgt M. Kirwan)                           Certified by: HQ AETC/SE (Mr E. Talbott)
                                                                                            Pages: 2
                                                                                     Distribution: F

AFMAN 91-224, 1 August 2004, is supplemented as follows:
This supplement does not apply to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm. This supplement
replaces any ground safety guidance previously found in AFI 91-204/AETC Sup 1, Safety Investiga-
tions and Reports.
2.2.1. (Added) Ground safety staffs will use AETC IMT 435, Mishap Data Worksheet, for local mishap
data collection. Chiefs of safety should develop and implement local procedures for investigating mishaps
not reportable under AFI 91-204. The level of the investigation and data requirements will be based on the
severity, type, mishap problem areas, new operations, and possibility of recurrence. Motorcycle mishap
reports will address the following in the mishap narrative:
2.2.1.1. (Added) Type of motorcycle safety training received. If no training was received, so state.
2.2.1.2. (Added) Total street-riding experience (in years and months).
2.2.1.3. (Added) Riding experience for the type of motorcycle involved in the mishap (in years and
months).
2.2.2. (Added) The host safety office will coordinate with the commander of the base medical service to
receive copies of all admission and disposition (A&D) sheets and AF Forms 1488, Daily Log of Patients
Treated for Injuries.
2.2.3. (Added) The safety staff will review A&D sheets and AF Forms 1488 to determine the reportable
nature of recorded incidents. Highlight incidents on the A&D sheet and AF Form 1488 determined report-
able in accordance with 91-204 and mark with the corresponding mishap control number. For nonreport-
able incidents, cite an appropriate reference or provide an explanation next to the incident. The
2                                                    AFMAN91-224_AETCSUP1 19 OCTOBER 2005


determination that a lost-time mishap is not reportable must be well founded and consistent with the find-
ings of a competent medical authority. The chief of safety (or ground safety manager) must approve a
memorandum for record (MFR) substantiating rationale for not reporting a mishap. Attach supporting
documents (AETC IMT 435, CA- and LS-series forms, and A&D sheets) to the MFR. NOTE: See para-
graphs 2.5.1 and 2.5.2 in the basic AFMAN for applicable CA- and LS-series forms, respectively.
2.2.4. (Added) When an Air Force member from another installation or command is treated by base med-
ical treatment facilities, the host safety staff will notify the safety staff at the base where the person is
assigned. Documentation of notification will be maintained to reflect the person notified and date of the
notification.
2.3.1. The director of base medical services will assist the safety staff with occupational health and envi-
ronmental issues.
2.5.4. The civilian personnel office and the nonappropriated fund personnel office will keep a monthly
log of civilian injuries and forward a copy of the log to the safety office each month. (This includes inju-
ries to youth opportunity and student assistance program employees.)
6.4.4. Unit control numbers (UNC) may be required at the discretion of each numbered Air Force (NAF).
UCNs must be sequential so they can be tracked. Number AETC UCNs in sequence monthly, not annu-
ally. UCNs for ground safety mishaps will be numbered 026-050 for each month.
6.8. (Added) Use of AETC IMT 740, Ground Mishap and Safety Education Summary. A l l u n i t s
(excluding NAFs) will complete an AETC IMT 740 and send it to arrive at HQ AETC/SE no later than
the 10th calendar day following the end of the report month. AETC IMT 740 may be e-mailed or faxed.
Use the previous month’s strength and exposure data.
7.2.2. (Added) The immediate commander of the individual involved in the mishap, accompanied by the
next higher echelon commander, will brief the AETC Commander via a video teleconference on all Class
A ground mishaps (and others as requested). Briefings will be attended by the AETC senior staff director-
ates and all wing commanders and their staffs via the video teleconference. Wing commanders will deter-
mine other local attendees and are encouraged to include junior officer and enlisted personnel to instill
lessons learned and promote personnel risk management. HQ AETC/SEG will provide briefing guidelines
to the applicable commander immediately after notifying him or her that a briefing is required.
7.5.1.3. (Added) AETC IMT 740, Ground Mishap and Safety Education Summary.
7.5.2.11. (Added) AETC IMT 435, Mishap Data Worksheet.
7.5.2.12. (Added) AF Form 1488, Daily Log of Patients Treated for Injuries.



                                                FRANK A. PALUMBO, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                Director of Safety
