BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE MANUAL 23-110, VOLUME 6,
HILL AIR FORCE BASE                                                                 CHAPTER 4

                                                                                HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                          Supplement 1
                                                                                      3 NOVEMBER 1998

                                                                                                     Supply

                                                                      PRECIOUS METALS RECOVERY
                                                                                PROGRAM (PMRP)

                                             "HOLDOVER"

"The basic publication has changed; impact on supplemental information is under review by the OPR.
             Users should follow supplemental information that remains unaffected."

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: OO-ALC/LGMS (Remona B. Thompson)                       Certified by: OO-ALC/LGMS (Roger Wood)
                                                                                            Pages: 4
                                                                                     Distribution: F

AFMAN 23-110, Volume 6, Chapter 4, is supplemented as follows:
4.1.4. The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) is the Program Manager held accountable for the adminis-
tration of the overall Department of Defense (DOD) Precious Metals Recovery Program (PMRP).
4.2.3. Administration of the precious metals for civilian contractors will be the responsibility of Contract-
ing Directorate (OO-ALC/PK). OO-ALC/PK will advise the PMRP of any problems. All direction to con-
tractors concerning precious metals will be through the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer
(ACO).
4.2.5. The PMRP manager will ensure Aircraft Directorate (OO-ALC/LA), F-16 Management Director-
ate (OO-ALC/LF), Commodities Directorate (OO-ALC/LI), ICBM System Program Office (OO-ALC/
LM), Technology and Industrial Support Directorate (OO-ALC/TI), and 75th Medical Group (75
MDG)have PMRP monitors and alternates as required.
4.2.7. Ensure a disinterested witness certifies the weight and sign DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/
Receipt Document. Three signatures are required on DD Form 1348-1A, the signature of the monitor for
the machine, the disinterested witness, and the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) sig-
nature for receiving the silver.
4.2.13. The PMRP manager is responsible for implementing an effective base wide program for the man-
agement and control of precious metals.
4.3.4. (Added) Administration Flight (75 SFS/SFA) will:
2                                      AFMAN23-110V6CH4_HILLAFBSUP1 3 NOVEMBER 1998


4.3.4.1. (Added) Establish security requirements and conduct surveys of precious metals storage facili-
ties, in accordance with AFI 31-209, The Air Force Resource Protection Program.
4.3.4.2. (Added) Provide a precious metal facility survey if requested by the OO-ALC PMRP manager.
4.3.5. (Added) OO-ALC participating activities will:
4.3.5.1. (Added) Appoint in writing:
4.3.5.1.1. (Added) PMRP managers and alternate.
4.3.5.1.2. (Added) Individuals to receipt for and issue precious metals.
4.3.5.1.3. (Added) Individuals and alternates (when necessary) to be responsible for the electrolytic
machine or cartridges attached to the photo processing machines.
4.3.5.1.4. (Added) Individuals and alternates (when necessary) to be responsible for the accumulation of
precious metal scrap.
4.3.5.1.5. (Added) A disinterested witnesses for the purpose of witnessing the harvesting of silver from
the electrolytic machines. This witness cannot be responsible for the machine. NOTE: The witness will
certify the weight and sign with the responsible individual on the turn-in document to DRMO. The indi-
vidual responsible for the electrolytic machine will witness the weighing of the silver at DRMO and be in
agreement on the turn-in document with DRMO.
4.3.5.2. (Added) Ensure that the OO-ALC PMRP manager is provided with the names, functional address
symbols, building locations, and phone numbers of each monitor and alternate.
4.3.5.3. (Added) Forward all changes to the PMRP manager within ten days from the date of change.
4.3.5.4. (Added) Maintain operating instructions (OI) outlining precious metals recovery procedures. OIs
will be developed and revised on the basis of DOD, HQ AFMC, DLA, and PMRP manager’s guidance; on
experience gained in audits and semi-annual inspections; and on new developments in precious metals
recovery technology. A copy of all OIs will be provided to the OO-ALC PMRP manager for coordination.
OIs should contain as a minimum:
4.3.5.4.1. (Added) Specific responsibilities in the handling and accounting of precious metals, scrap, res-
idue, or precious metals coded “R” being maintained in the area.
4.3.5.4.2. (Added) Examples of typical items containing precious metals processed by the OI issuing
organization.
4.3.5.4.3. (Added) A workable security system to safeguard from pilferage precious metals scrap or resi-
due that has accumulated.
4.3.5.4.4. (Added) Procedures and responsibilities for personnel training and safety.
4.3.5.5. (Added) Ensure self-inspection checklists are developed and are consistent with operational
peculiarities of each precious metals inventory control point of the generating activity. Checklists must be
kept current reflecting findings and recommendations of periodic inspections. Self- inspections should be
performed quarterly, and the checklist will be reviewed by the PMRP at the time of the survey.
4.3.6. (Added) Organizations using electrolytic silver recovery systems will develop adequate procedures
for checking discharge. This is to ensure that equipment is operating at peak efficiency and that fixer con-
taining silver, is not discharged into the facility drainage system. A silver estimating test paper check at
the drain will be sufficient to determine equipment recovery efficiency. Recovery equipment will:
AFMAN23-110V6CH4_HILLAFBSUP1 3 NOVEMBER 1998                                                            3


4.3.6.1. (Added) Be kept in good repair.
4.3.6.2. (Added) Be operated, cleaned, and harvested according to instructions provided in DRMS-M
4160-12 (on file in DRMO) and operating manual supplied with each unit.
4.3.7. (Added) Organizations not using silver recovery systems will collect expended fixer solution in
containers. Containers will be sent to assigned areas for processing and silver recovery.
4.3.8. (Added) Some items containing precious metals are identified as explosive. Procedures for pro-
cessing this material are necessary before items can be turned into DRMO. Procedures outlined are appli-
cable to the stock record account number (SRAN) or explosive batteries and should be adapted to the
specific item. Specific responsibilities:
4.3.8.1. (Added) The Inventory Management Specialist (IMS) will identify the item requiring processing
to inert status.
4.3.8.2. (Added) The AFMC Form 206, Temporary Work Request, will be submitted through the divi-
sion production managers to the shop planners.
4.3.8.3. (Added) The test unit scheduler will requisition assets and route through the Propellant Analysis
Branch (OO-ALC/LMSI).
4.3.8.4. (Added) OO-ALC/LMSI will drill and drain batteries in accordance with applicable instructions.
Batteries will then be processed through OO-ALC/LMSI.
4.3.8.5. (Added) OO-ALC/LMSI will fire the squibs in accordance with OIs. Batteries will then be
turned-in to DRMO for the recovery of silver.
4.3.9. (Added) All base activities involved in the precious metals recovery program are responsible for
making recommendations to the OO-ALC PMRP manager regarding improvement to or enhancement of
the program. The PMRP manager will consolidate recommendations for submission to HQ AFMC/LGID.
4.4.1. DRMO will aid in supplying silver recovery equipment and supplies for generating activities.
4.5.1. A precious metals area representative (PMAR) is assigned as geographical area representative of
the DLA/Defense Reutilization and Marketing Region, Precious Metal Recovery Program Office (DLA/
DMRS-DW).
4.5.5. Other duties of the PMAR are outlined in DODM 4160.21, Chapter 10, Defense Reutilization and
Marketing Manual.
4.6.9. During purchase request preparation, the item manager will review system products or interroga-
tions to determine the precious metals indicator code (PMIC).
4.9.2. NOTE: (Added) Items scheduled for disposal should be screened to determine that the government
realizes the highest return through recovery or sale.
4.9.3.2. Accurate reporting of the weights and measures of precious metals turned-in to Defense Reuti-
lization and Marketing Office (DRMO/UAI) is required. The use of comparable scales, (such as NSN
6670-00-514-4117, available at DRMO) to weigh precious metals should be utilized.
4.10.1. These metals come in various forms. As raw materiel, they may be provided in bar, granulated, or
sponge form. They may also be obtained in preshaped, tooled, and chemical forms. Requisitioning of pre-
cious metals in their raw form will be accomplished under the provisions of this directive.
4.10.5.5. Incoming precious metal items will be received by Product Receipt and Evaluation (DDHU-E)
and stored by Warehouse Division Hill (DDHU-S). Precious metals items with the controlled item code
4                                       AFMAN23-110V6CH4_HILLAFBSUP1 3 NOVEMBER 1998


(CIC) “R” will require special handling in accordance with procedures outlined in instructions and secu-
rity established by 75 SFS/SFA. Issue of precious metal items will follow procedures to guarantee no loss
of material. NOTE: Monitors responsible for the receipt and issue of precious metals containing the CIC
“R” will verify the signature and the identity of OO-ALC/TI personnel upon receipt. This material with
security CIC “R” requires secure storage and handling. Precious metals items without CIC “R” have lim-
ited amounts of precious metals and will require only the security practiced for all items.
4.19. (Added) Terms Explained.
4.19.1. (Added) Gold–A yellow metallic chemical element highly malleable and ductile. A few uses of
gold, gold alloys, and gold brazing alloys are semiconductors, diodes, transistors, and wire.
4.19.2. (Added) Silver–A white metallic chemical element that is extremely ductile and malleable. It is
used extensively in photographic and x-ray film. The spent hypo solution used in film development is a
big source of recoverable silver. Other uses of silver are desalting kits, silver lined bearings and bushings,
electrical contacts, connectors, and wire.
4.19.3. (Added) Platinum–A steel gray, malleable, ductile, and metallic chemical element that is corro-
sion resistant. It has a high electrical resistance. Fine platinum wire is used as telescopic and microscopic
crosshairs, electrical fuses, and slide resistant wires.
4.19.4. (Added) Palladium–A silvery-white, ductile, malleable, metallic chemical element of the plati-
num group. It is used as a catalyst or in alloys with gold, silver, and other metals. A few of the uses of pal-
ladium are contact point in telephone relays, ignitions, electrical contracts, and foil.
4.19.5. (Added) Iridium–A white, heavy, brittle, metallic chemical element found in platinum ores.
Alloys of iridium are used for bearings in watches and scientific instruments.
4.19.6. (Added) Rhodium–A hard, gray-white, metallic chemical element of the platinum group. Rhod-
ium uses are in alloys with platinum to make thermocouple wires.
4.19.7. (Added) Osmium–A bluish-white, amorphous, metallic chemical element of the platinum group.
It is used as an alloy for pivots and bearings.
4.19.8. (Added) Ruthenium–A hard white, metallic chemical element of the platinum group.




                                           ANDREW E. BUSCH, Lt Col, USAF
                                           Deputy, Financial Mgt & Comptroller
