                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                            AIR FORCE MANUAL 38-208, VOLUME 3
AIR FORCE                                                                                31 MARCH 1995

                                                                             Manpower and Organization

                                                        AIR FORCE MANAGEMENT ENGINEERING
                                                        PROGRAM (MEP)--LOGISTICS COMPOSITE
                                                                              MODEL (LCOM)


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/PER (Maj Wayne R. Hanson)                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/PER
                                                                                   (Col Daniel B. DeBona)
Supersedes AFR 25-7, 1 March 1987.                                                                Pages: 5
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This manual provides information that may be used to conduct an LCOM study. It provides an overall
system description to include basic responsibilities. It applies to any project officer responsible for the
quantificatin of requirements associated with an LCOM Module.

Section A—System Description and Responsibilities

1. System Description. The LCOM system is a large scale computer simulation used to model man-
power and other logistical requirements. It considers employment of different support resources to help
the user decide the best mix to support a given requirement. LCOM simulation capabilities range from
very small to very large weapon systems and include various other functions that lend themselves to sim-
ulation modeling. LCOM manpower studies may be developed for one or more locations or weapon sys-
tems. Because LCOM studies can identify peacetime and wartime requirements, the studies provide a
more defensible budget position and allow for effective use of available resources.

2. Responsibilities. HQ AFMEA:
   2.1. Maintains, modifies, documents, distributes, and implements the standard LCOM system.
   Reviews requests for LCOM system changes, evaluates the change’s impact on customers, informs the
   requester of planned action, and makes the appropriate changes.
   2.2. Maintains a schedule of software developments activities.

Section B—Scenario Development

3. Description. The scenario provides the basic operational concepts and specific maintenance policies
that impact a study. The scenario states the study objectives including where the data audit validation will
take place and the time period covered. Scenarios are developed by the MAJCOM M & O and coordi-
nated with the logistics, operations, and plans staffs to assure operational and maintenance concepts are
accurately outlined in the scenario.
4. Scenario Requirements. Each LCOM study addresses all applicable operational environments. Each
scenario should state the modeling features to be used in the study and contain the following information:
   4.1. Study Objective:
       4.1.1. Define purpose and scope of study.
       4.1.2. Identify locations to be used for failure data collections and the associated time period cov-
       ered.
       4.1.3. Identify locations for field measurements and data validation if required.
   4.2. Organization Alignment:
       4.2.1. State the organization levels being studied.
       4.2.2. Identify the deployment environment being modeled, primary aircraft assigned (PAA), and
       level of maintenance at each deployment location.
       4.2.3. Identify the organizational structure appropriate to the studied units and include organiza-
       tion chart. List the organization structure codes (OSC) and provide the functional account code
       (FAC) and manpower determinant for each work center.
   4.3. Manpower Data:
       4.3.1. Identify the man-hour availability factors (MAF) to be used.
       4.3.2. Use the appropriate MAJCOM indirect factors to determine maximum utilization factors.
       4.3.3. Provide policies that will be used for the employment of alert-dedicated personnel.
       4.3.4. Provide manpower shift policies for each operational environment.
   4.4. Supply Data:
       4.4.1. Provide not-mission-capable supply (NMCS) rates for applicable to each operational envi-
       ronment.
       4.4.2. Identify the supply concept applicable to each operational environment.
   4.5. Support Equipment and Facilities. Identify special equipment available at home or at
   deployed location that is applicable to model.
   4.6. Maintenance RRequirements:
       4.6.1. Maintenance policies and concepts that will be modeled
       4.6.2. Remote versus home station maintenance modeling criteria.
       4.6.3. Launch and recovery modeling criteria.
       4.6.4. Whether cannibalization will be modeled.
   4.7. Operations Requirements:
       4.7.1. Mission type and percent.
       4.7.2. Substitution rules for use of alternate configurations.




                                                 2
      4.7.3. Modeling criteria for ground alert. Provide alert data showing the number of aircraft on
      alert by location, replacement policy (replace when launched, or same aircraft returns to alert),
      duration of alert cycle, and disposition of aircraft at end of alert cycle.
      4.7.4. Weather modeling criteria.
      4.7.5. Percentage of air aborts by mission.
      4.7.6. Policies for modeling ground or air spare aircraft.
      4.7.7. Criteria for modeling complimentary missions and mission legs with restricted time
      frames.
      4.7.8. Criteria for modeling mass launches.
      4.7.9. Information for each mission type or leg including:
          4.7.9.1. Aircraft type.
          4.7.9.2. Operational environment (for example, sustained, surge or training).
          4.7.9.3. PAA size being modeled.
          4.7.9.4. Include source document for sortie rate and average duration.
          4.7.9.5. Attrition policy.
          4.7.9.6. Mission name.
          4.7.9.7. Mission priority.
          4.7.9.8. Percent of total sorties, by mission type.
          4.7.9.9. Mean sortie length and variation.
          4.7.9.10. Ratio of day to night missions.
          4.7.9.11. Substitute missions.
          4.7.9.12. Flight size (maximum and minimum).
          4.7.9.13. Mission cancel time. Give the length and type of delay that will be allowed before
          the mission will be canceled.
          4.7.9.14. Modeling criteria for mission-peculiar equipment.
          4.7.9.15. Initial external aircraft configuration.
          4.7.9.16. Probability and quantity of weapon expenditure.
          4.7.9.17. Ending configuration.
          4.7.9.18. Additional data. For example, when data is available on areas such as aircraft battle
          damage and chemical environmental impact, consider these areas for modeling.

Section C—Data Base Development

5. Preliminary Maintenance Data Analysis. Before starting work measurement activities supporting
an LCOM study, do the following:


                                                 3
   5.1. Compile historical or logistics support analysis (LSA) maintenance data for use with the LCOM
   data preparation subsystem. Obtain at least six months of historical data from the units or locations
   under study.
   5.2. Perform LCOM data preparation subsystem runs to produce preliminary analysis reports. The
   audit and combination reports should provide information for conducting an LCOM work measure-
   ment.

Section D—Simulation

6. Use of Computer Programs. The simulation process used to validate manpower requirements con-
sists of several computer programs. Use these programs to simulate resources such as parts, equipment,
and manpower in support of an approved flying schedule. Once the scenario has been approved, obtain
historical failure data, supply data, validated task times, and crew sizes. This data and scenario parameters
make up the LCOM data base. The computer programs use this data base and the approved flying sched-
ule to form an LCOM simulation model. The LCOM users guide provides all documentation required to
perform the process.

7. Processing. The simulation process begins with available aircraft in the ready pool. When a mission is
scheduled, the appropriate number of aircraft are selected to begin the presortie tasks. Once these tasks are
complete, the aircraft are available for the mission. When the mission is completed, the model looks for
aircraft system failures. These failures are based on the historical data incorporated in the data base. If any
failures exist, the appropriate resources (personnel, parts, equipment) are selected and the repair activities
begin. Once all repairs are completed and the normal postsortie processing is done, the aircraft are
returned to the ready pool. At that time, they become available for selection to process toward a mission
or an activity such as a phase inspection.

8. Reports. The LCOM system provides a number of user-requested reports. These reports provide
information necessary to evaluate manpower requirements. These requirements are based primarily on the
amount of resources used during the simulation process.

9. Preparation of a FIN-REP. Final reports will be prepared and formatted based on the requirements
of the approving MAJCOM M & O and LG communities.




                                           CHARLES R. HEFLEBOWER, Brig General, USAF
                                           Director, Programs and Evaluation




                                                  4
                                           Attachment 1

        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FAC—Functional Account Code
LCOM—Logistics Composite Model
M&O—Manpower and Organization
MAF—Man-hour Availability Factor
NMCS—Not-Mission-Capable Supply
OSC—Organization Structure Code
PAA—Primary Aircraft Assigned


Terms
All terms are located in AFMAN 38-208, volume 2, to preclude duplication.




                                             5
