BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR FORCE MANUAL 23-220
633D AIR BASE WING                                          JOINT BASE LANGELY- EUSTIS
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                         20 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                         Supply

                                                   REPORTS OF SURVEY FOR AIR FORCE
                                                                         PROPERTY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 633 CPTS/FMA                                                    Certified by: 633 CPTS/CC
                                                                                (Lt Col Kodama)
                                                                                         Pages: 5


This supplement sets out policies and procedures relating to the Reports of Survey (ROS)
program at Joint Base Langley-Eustis and applies to all units and personnel, to include 633 Air
Base Wing, 1st Fighter Wing, HQ ACC and all other tenants. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/ . Recommendations for
changes will be sent through channels to 633 CPTS/FMA, 45 Nealy Ave, Ste 204, Langley AFB
VA 23665.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

1.4.1. Commanders, Directors, Directorate Division Chiefs and Staff Agency Chiefs assigned or
attached to Joint Base Langley-Eustis, are required to be familiar with ROS program
implementing regulations as cited in AFMAN 23-220 (Reports of Survey for Air Force
Property). Particular focus should be placed on the provisions of AFI 23-111 (Management of
Government Property in Possession of the Air Force)
4.1.1. When property is lost, damaged or destroyed by an individual or an organization, the
organization that possessed the property will initiate the ROS and that unit commander will
appoint an investigating officer who will determine the facts in the case. Appointing authorities
may appoint an investigating officer when the situation warrants. (See AFMAN 23-220
paragraph 9.3.10).
 2          AFMAN23-220_ JOINTBASELANGLEY-EUSTISSUP 20 SEPTEMBER 2011


4.1.3. The investigating officer (IO) will ensure the investigation answers the questions; what
happened, how, where, and when. The investigation will identify who was involved, and
determine if there was any evidence of negligence, misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use or
disposition of the property that was the proximate cause of the loss, damage, or destruction. The
IO will submit sworn written statements obtained from witness interviews and substantiating
documentation indicating a chain of custody of the lost, damaged or destroyed equipment.
5.2. Each ROS must be acted upon expeditiously. If the IO will not complete investigation
within allotted timeframe (30 days from appointment) then a letter of delay is required. Letters of
delay must be signed by the Appointing Official and forwarded to the Base ROS Program
Manager. This letter must be submitted prior to the expiration of the IO’s 30-day investigation
window. If official investigative agencies (e.g., Security Forces, OSI, local police, etc.) are
actively investigating the incident, investigating officials have 30 days after completion of their
reports to complete the ROS and submit it to the ROS Program Manager. Commanders,
Directors, Directorate Division Chiefs and Staff Agency Chiefs will refer to AFMAN 23-220 for
the proper timeframes for processing a ROS.
6.1. Commanders, Directors, Directorate Division Chiefs and Staff Agency Chiefs will give
individuals responsible for the loss, damage, or destruction of government property (because of
their negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use) the opportunity to
voluntarily accept pecuniary liability for their actions. This is subject to certain limitations (see
AFMAN 23-220, paragraphs 14.4 and 16.1).
7.1.1. When the IO is not senior in rank or grade to the individual being investigated, the
person who appointed the investigating officer will advise the Appointing Authority in writing as
to why this was necessary
7.2. The IO will become familiar with the investigation process as set forth in AFMAN 23-220
and will review and evaluate the adequacy of existing procedures to protect property. Particular
focus should be placed on the provisions of AFI 23-111 (Management of Government Property
in Possession of the Air Force).
7.3. Appointing official will convey that the investigation of an ROS will be treated as the IO’s
primary duty. The IO will be relieved of normal duties which could impair the IO’s expeditious
completion of the investigation.
7.4.2. The IO will use AF Form 1168 (Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complainant) to obtain
written statements from individuals interviewed. Person to person interviews are the standard in
all cases where circumstances permit. If person to person interviews are not practical, a properly
signed and executed AF Form 1168 statement may be forwarded via email as an attachment or
faxed. In the rare instance where AF Form 1168 cannot be accomplished, a signed written
statement over an oath attesting to the accuracy and truthfulness of the statement will be
accepted. The oath in block V of AF Form 1168 includes all the required language and is
acceptable for such statements.
7.4.8. When written statements cannot be obtained from witnesses the IO will submit a written
statement documenting any verbal witness statements obtained. The IO will include as part of
the verbal statement in writing, language that attests to the accuracy of what the witness told the
investigator and what investigator believes the witness would have stated if a written statement
had been provided.
AFMAN23-220_ JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTISSUP 20 SEPTEMBER 2011                                   3


8.3.6. Subordinate Commanders of Appointing Officials will appoint, in writing to the Base
ROS Program Manager, a primary and an alternate ROS monitor for their organizations. As
replacements are required, Commanders will appoint new monitors not later than 60 days prior
to a custodian's PCS, PCA, or first day of terminal leave, permissive TDY/LV, or last duty day
(whichever comes first). The unit ROS Monitor is the focal point to process ROS packages and
the primary point of contact for the Base Program Manager. Investigating officer must
coordinate with the organization’s ROS monitor for a review of the package’s completeness and
accuracy.
8.4.4. Appointed unit ROS Monitors will be trained by the Base ROS Manager regarding their
duties/responsibilities prior to assuming duties. Authority is delegated to the Base ROS Program
Manager to waive processing a ROS if the depreciated value/replacement cost is under $500 and
a ROS is not mandatory (see AFMAN 23-220, Paragraph 3.1). Documentation (DD Form 200)
will still be required to show records adjustment for ADPE or LRS/Supply accounts. This
documentation will be kept on file with the Base ROS Manager.
9.1. The 633 ABW/CC has designated the 633 ABW/CV, Commander, Headquarters Squadron
(HQ ACC/CCQ),1 FW/CC, Group Commanders and all Tenant Commanders as appointing
authorities.
9.3.6. The appointing authorities are authorized to take final action on a ROS when the
depreciated value/replacement cost is less than $2,000; there is no evidence of negligence,
willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use; and they are authorized to do so by the
approving authority AFMAN 23-220, paragraph 9.3.6.
9.5.2. The Staff Judge Advocate will provide a legal review of all recommendations of
pecuniary liability before Approving Official takes final action.
9.5.2. 1 If the Judge Advocate review determines the investigation was legally insufficient, the
ROS package will be returned to the ROS Program Manager who will determine whether further
investigation is necessary before the ROS is submitted to the approving authority.
11.2. Compliance with Air Force guidance requires the appointment of an ROS Program
Manager. This appointment must be designated in writing by the approving authority. The 633
CPTS/CC is the designated ROS Program Manager for Joint Base Langley-Eustis.
14.3. Investigating Officers will prepare the ROS package in one original and one copy. The
original will be provided to the base ROS Program Manager and the unit ROS monitor will
retain the copy. The ROS Program Manager will provide the original to the Accountable Officer
for the purpose of adjusting property control records. The Accountable Officer will return the
original to the base ROS Program Manager for further processing.
18.4.1.3. Designated Appointing Officials will ensure an investigation is initiated for cases
involving vehicle accidents/abuses. Exception:        if member(s) responsible for vehicle
accident/abuse voluntarily pay for damages, then an ROS is not required. Commanders and unit
ROS Monitors will ensure that voluntary payments instead of an ROS are in compliance with
AFMAN 23-220, Paragraph 14.4 and are coordinated with 633 CPTS/CC before payment is
made on DD Form 362 or DD Form 1131. A copy of the paid voucher will be submitted to the
ROS Program Manager immediately after payment is made.
 4          AFMAN23-220_ JOINTBASELANGLEY-EUSTISSUP 20 SEPTEMBER 2011


21.4.2.1. Designated Appointing Officials will appoint new equipment custodians not later than
60 days prior to a custodian's PCS, PCA, or first day of terminal leave, permissive TDY/LV, or
last duty day (whichever comes first) if separating/retiring. The old and new custodians will
conduct a 100 percent inventory not later than 45 days prior to the outgoing custodian's final out-
processing date (this should be included on the unit out-processing checklist). The unit initiating
an ROS must notify the base ROS Manager and any appropriate organizations (i.e., CS, LRS,
FSS, etc.) in writing if any person(s) suspected of being responsible for the loss or damage to
government property is scheduled for PCS, PCA, separation, or retirement.




                                             DONALD E. KIRKLAND, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
AFMAN23-220_ JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTISSUP 20 SEPTEMBER 2011                                 5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force, 07 Jan 2011
