BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE MANUAL 23-110, VOLUME 6,
2D BOMB WING                                                              CHAPTER 4

                                                              BARKSDALE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement

                                                                                   21 MAY 2010

                                                                                          Supply

                                                 PRECIOUS METAL RECOVERY PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 2 LRS/LGLOC                                                          Certified by: 2 LRS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Susanna L. Harris)
                                                                                         Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 23-110V6, Ch 4, Precious Metals
Recovery Program, and describes support policies and procedures for Barksdale Air Force Base
(AFB). It applies to all 2d Bomb Wing (2 BW) units and tenant units at Barksdale AFB. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Responsibilities:
1.1. PMRP Manager
1.1.1. As the OPR of 2 BW, the Precious Metals Recovery Program (PMRP) Manager will
provide guidance to unit monitors within 2 BW for administering receipt, storage, processing and
turn-in of recovered precious metals.
 2                            AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010


1.1.2. Ensure the development and implementation of all precious metal recovery procedures for
the security and accountability of all recovered precious metals and precious metal bearing scrap
generated at Barksdale AFB.
1.1.3. Develop and implement operating instructions to comply with PMRP requirements.
1.1.4. Will be familiar with the responsibilities of each squadron’s PMRP as outlined in DoD
4160.21M, Chapter 17. Request PMAR assistance when required.
1.1.5. Maintain a list of organizations generating precious metals residue, including the name of
the current monitor and alternate, phone number, location, type of recovery equipment used and
types of precious metals generated.
1.1.6. Coordinate with the Resource Protection Executive Committee (RPEC) to establish
adequate security of generated precious metals.
1.1.7. Ensure all generating activities adequately secure recovered precious metals.
1.1.8. Coordinate with DRMS to obtain active participation in the PMRP. Apprises the
servicing DRMS relative to any guidance required concerning segregation of precious metals
bearing scrap, or for any need of containers for scrap.
1.1.9. Publicize the program’s effectiveness through the base media, bulletins, posters and
public recognition to personnel of units that make significant contributions to the program.
1.1.10. Schedule and conduct inspections of all generating activities for 2 BW every 2 years.
1.1.11. Conduct no-notice inspections as deemed necessary.
1.1.12. Conduct refresher training periodically or as needed for all primary and alternate
precious metal monitors. Provide immediate training to newly appointed monitors.
1.1.13. Notify the PMAR of any requirements for precious metals recovery equipment, repair
parts and supplies that are furnished by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) on a free issue
basis. Request the PMAR to provide any training, workshop, seminar or briefing required.
1.2. Unit Commanders and Division Chiefs
1.2.1. Appoint in writing the following personnel: one primary PMRP monitor and at least one
alternate PMRP monitor.
1.2.2. Ensure minimum numbers of people are assigned to do the harvesting, to receive and store
the harvested materiel prior to transfer to DRMS, to witness the harvesting and to sign the
accuracy statement on the turn-in document. Some responsibilities may be performed by the
same person. For example, the same person may perform the last three listed functions.
1.3. Unit PMRPM
1.3.1. Be familiar with the operation of precious metals recovery equipment. Contact the base
PMRM if assistance is required.
1.3.2. Be familiar with security requirements for handling and storage of recovered precious
metals, scraps and residue. Ensure personnel working with recovered precious metals are
advised of security requirements.
AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010                                                      3


1.3.3. Ensure proper use, control and security of supplies and equipment used in the PMRP.
Maintain the following information: Fine precious metals by gram weight received, issued, and
turned-in to DRMS.
1.3.4. Each unit PRMP monitor will maintain a PMRP folder in the following format:
               TAB A:     Appointment Letter
               TAB B:     Certification of Training
               TAB C:     Hand Receipts
               TAB D:     Precious Metal Activity Record
               TAB E:     Unit Semi-Annual Self-inspection
               TAB F:     DD Form 1348-1, Single Line Release/Receipt Document
               TAB G:     Miscellaneous
1.3.5. Ensure that items containing precious metals on bench stock are identified by a specific
color symbol on each applicable bin label.
1.3.6. Turn in all recovered precious metals, precious metal scrap and precious metal-bearing
material to DRMS using DD Form 1348-1 in accordance with Attachment 1.
1.3.7. Segregate precious metal-bearing material, scrap and residue prior to turn-in to DRMS.
1.3.8. Initiate and conduct a self-inspection, at least semiannually, to ensure compliance with
security, receipt, issue, and turn-in requirements. Maintain documents and inspections in the unit
PMRPM folder.
1.3.9. Reply in writing to all inspections according to the instructions of the base PMRP.
1.3.10. Maintain a log to reflect all litmus paper tests. Entries must show the date, time and
results of each test.
1.4. Contracting Officer
1.4.1. Advise the base PMRP monitor of any contracts being administered on the base where
precious metals bearing materials are involved. Provide advice relative to options that may be
incorporated in statements of work.
2. Security
2.1. Recovered precious metals: All generating activities must provide protection for fine
precious metals, precious metal bearing scrap and high content precious metal-bearing items. It
is absolutely essential that very strict security and control be established for precious metals and
precious metal-bearing materials. Once an item is identified as containing precious metal, it
must be provided the same security and accountability that is provided to highly pilferable
property.
2.2. Controlled Storage
2.2.1. All recovered precious metals will be stored in a cabinet, safe, drawer or other container
secured by a lock. Access to recovered precious metals must be limited to authorized
individuals.
 4                             AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010


2.2.2. Security and control of precious metals does not automatically justify the building of
security facilities. The degree of control must be tempered with the quantity of precious metals
to be secured.
2.3. Recovery Unit
2.3.1. Passive silver cell recovery units will be secured at all times and will be opened only by
authorized personnel.
2.3.2. Once a silver cell recovery unit is full, it will be dried and immediately transferred to
DRMS.
2.4. Key Control
2.4.1. Keys to storage facilities (safes, cabinets, etc.) prescribed in 6.2.1. will be maintained by
the work center supervisor. The work center supervisor will maintain a log to record the issue
and turn-in of keys. As a minimum, the log will contain the following:
       NAME: (individual signing the key out)
       DATE: (self-explanatory)
       TIME OUT/IN: (time keys were signed out and in)
       DUTY ELEMENT: (of individual signing the key out)
       INITIALS: (of individual requesting the key)
2.5. Thefts/Shortages
2.5.1. Immediately report all thefts, shortages or any other losses of recovered precious metals to
the unit commander or division chief, the Security Forces, Air Force Office of Special
Investigations (AFOSI) and the base PMRP monitor.
3. Silver Recovery
3.1. Silver recovery is normally accomplished using a PSC Recovery Unit and through the Turn-
In of scrap film.
3.1.1. PSC recovery units are designed to remove silver from photographic fixer solution. The
unit works off a chemically produced electrical charge. The solution flows through the cell at a
slow rate and high-grade silver is plated to the cell. When the cell is full, the silver will overflow
to a backup cell. The full cell will then be removed, dried and immediately transferred to DRMS
for weighing. All applicable safety equipment must be used during this process. Both the
harvester and witness will weigh the cell and document this information on the AF Form 1348-1.
The unit PMRP monitor will maintain strict security over the recovered cells until turned in to
DRMS.
3.2. Testing Recovery Efficiency
3.2.1. Frequent observations of silver flake accumulation must be accomplished to ensure silver
is not lost down the drain due to equipment malfunctions.
3.2.2. Check for full cell, if full remove from service and install a new PSC in its place.
3.3. Generating Activities Without Silver Recovery Units
AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010                                                     5


3.3.1. These activities will dump all spent effluent, including that from film processing tanks,
into plastic containers. Save this solution and when sufficient quantities have accumulated,
transfer the solution to an organization with silver recovery equipment.
4. Safety and Health Requirements
4.1. Many of the precious metals recovery operations are both inherently and potentially
dangerous and require both general and specific precautions to prevent injury or illness to
personnel, damage to property, or pollution to the environment.
4.2. Most gold and silver compounds are dangerous. Toxic effects may be caused either by
ingestion or inhalation of these compounds. No food or drinks will be allowed in any area where
recovered precious metal is being processed.
4.3. All personnel involved in mishaps while working with precious metal recovery equipment
or in the handling of recovered metals, regardless of how minor, should report for medical
treatment immediately. Report the incident to the base PMRP monitor as soon as possible.
4.4. Use of personnel protective clothing and equipment is required when moving the PSC, e.g.,
smooth surface apron and glove and eye protection. Removal area must be clean and adequately
ventilated.
4.3. Questions concerning handling, transporting or disposing of precious metal-bearing material
or waste having hazardous characteristics should be addressed to the base environmental
coordinator.
5. Supplies and Equipment
5.1. Procurement and accountability: Supplies and equipment used in recovery operations
should not be purchased using organizational funds, except in emergency situations.
5.2. Submit requirements for recovery equipment or supplies to the base PMRP monitor.
Equipment will be issued on a hand receipt. Hand receipts will be maintained in the unit PMRP
monitor folder.
6. Training
6.1. Training in precious metal recovery policies and procedures is the responsibility of the base
PMRPP monitor. Minimum requirements for unit monitors are initial training for newly
assigned monitors and periodic or as-needed refresher training.
6.2. Special training will be conducted any time there is a major policy or procedural change.
7. Turn-in Procedures
7.1. The unit PMRP monitor will prepare the DD Form 1348-1 in four copies, according to the
instructions specified in Attachment 1. Information on the turn-in document will be written
legibly in ink, or typed. The work center supervisor, or a person not involved in PMRP,
designated by the work center supervisor, will accompany the unit PMRP when making a turn-in
to supply for transfer to DRMS. The work center supervisor or designated representative will
witness delivery of the recovered precious metals and sign in Block AA of the DD Form 1348-1
and turn one copy in to the base PMRP monitor.
8. Disposition of Documentation
 6                          AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010


8.1. All documentation pertaining to PMRP transactions will be in accordance with AFMAN 37-
139, Table 23-20, Precious Metals Recovery Program.




                                          STEVEN L. BASHAM, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 2d Bomb Wing
AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010                                                   7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
ACC DIRECTORY 90-2329, Compliance and Standardization Requirements List (S&Srl)
Logistics Requirements List (S&Srl) Logistics (Lg/Lgs), Precious Metals Recovery Program, 16
September 2004
AFPD 23-5, Reusing and Disposing of Materiel, 26 March 2001
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 6, Chapter 4, Precious Metals Recovery Program, 1 July 2007
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 6, Chapter 4_ACC Sup1, Precious Metals Recovery Program
(PMRP), 18 May 2006
DOD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual,18 August 1997
AFMAN 37-139, Table 23-20, Precious Metals Recovery Program

Acronyms and Abbreviations
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DRMS—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service
PMRP—Precious Metals Recovery Program
PMRPM—Precious Metals Recovery Program Monitor
PMAR— Precious Metals Area Representative

Terms
Amalgam— A silver-mercury alloy used for dental purposes.
Base PMRPM— Precious Metals Recovery Program Monitor. The individual designated in
writing by the Wing Commander to monitor the base Precious Metals Recovery Program.
DRMS— Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service. Accepts turn-ins of all precious metals
and precious metals residue.
Generating Activities— Organizations that use, process, or generate precious metals scrap.
An EPA Compliance Standard Silver Indicating Field Test Kit will be used to determine the
silver content of exhausted hypo solution.
PMAR— Precious Metals Area Representative. A Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)
representative assigned to the Precious Metals Recovery Program to assist in solving problems,
conduct visits and provide supplies and equipment required for the recovery of precious metals.
PMRP— Precious Metals Recovery Program. Prescribes policies and procedures for Air Force
participation in the Department of Defense Precious Metals Recovery Program.. Includes all
transactions involving precious metals issue, receipt, storage, turn-in, security, shipment,
processing, handling, training, identification, recovery, etc.
 8                         AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010


Silver Flake— The silver recovered in a Passive Silver Cell (PSC) Recovery Unit from the
silver concentration in the fixing bath.
Unit PMRPM— Individual appointed by their commander to monitor the unit’s Precious Metals
Recovery Program.
AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010                                    9


                           Attachment 2
   INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING DD FORM 1348-1, TURN-IN DOCUMENT

COLUMN/BLOCKS                       EXPLANATIONS
    1–3                             Constant A5J
    8 - 20                          SCRAP
    23 – 24                         Unit of Issue
    25 – 29                         Quantity Transferred
    30 – 43                         Document number constructed as follows:
                                    For directed turn-ins to DRMS use FB4608,
                                    current Julian date, serial number beginning
                                    with 9400. For identification of organization
                                    place your organization code and shop in
                                    blocks V and Y.
                                    For medical material transfers to DRMS –
                                    FM 4608, use current Julian date, org
                                    assigned serial number
    65                              Demil Code, Blank for Medical
    A (Shipped From)                Generating activity office symbol and
                                    address.
    B (Shipped To)                  Activity transferred to – DRMS/VEH
                                    Barksdale AFB, LA 71110-2072
    D (Project)                     Constant PMRP
    W–Y                             Cartridge or silver flake or silver sludge.
 10                           AFMAN23-110V6CH4_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 21 MAY 2010


                                        Attachment 3
            DISTRIBUTION OF DD FORM 1348-1 1 TURN-IN DOCUMENT

1. Prepare DD Form 1348-1 in four copies and distribute as follows:
2. Deliver recovered precious metal or precious metal-bearing material and all six copies of DD
Form 1348-1 to DRMS. DRMS will sign and certify weight.
3. DRMS will retain copies one through four. DRMS will return copy two stamped ―Receipt
Copy‖ immediately after turn-in.
4. Return ―Receipt Copy‖ to the base PMRPM immediately after turn-in to DRMS.
5. Maintain one copy in unit PMRPM folder IAW AFMAN 37-139, Table 23-20.
