BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR FORCE MANUAL 31-116
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                   AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                               Supplement
                                                                                25 APRIL 2013

                                                                                       Security

                                                  AIR FORCE MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC
                                                                      SUPERVISION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A7SOP                                                   Certified by: HQ ACC/A7S
                                                                   (Colonel Erik K. Rundquist)
                                                                                      Pages: 7




AFMAN31-116 is supplemented as follows. This supplement requires the collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 50 United States
Code 797. The terms “must,” “shall,” and “will” denote mandatory actions in this supplement.
This supplement does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units and members. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this document are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact supporting records managers as required. Send
comments and suggested changes on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through police services channels, to HQ ACC/A7SOP, 129 Andrews St, Suite 260, Langley AFB
VA 23665-2796.
 2                                                   AFMAN31-116_ACCSUP 25 APRIL 2013


1.1. Program Management. Installations will develop a local publication or supplement this
instruction addressing their specific local traffic codes and traffic requirements. A locally
devised publication suffices as a supplement to the instruction.

     1.3. Delegation of Authority. If authority is delegated, publish this information in the local
     supplement to this publication.
     2.5. Suspension of Revocation of Driving Privileges. Units will develop local base driver
     suspension and revocation procedures in coordination with the local Staff Judge Advocate
     (SJA).
            2.5.1.1. Units will reflect the suspension and revocation guidance for non-moving
            violations in the base supplement. If a base supplement is not developed they will be
            in a local installation traffic code.
        2.5.2. The Defense Force Commander (DFC) will incorporate these plans and
        procedures in the local supplement to this publication. Written procedures (governing
        suspensions and revocations) established by installation commanders define what is a
        reasonable time between the request for a hearing and the hearing.
            2.5.2.2. Personnel who transferred from other Air Force installations whose driving
            privileges were suspended or revoked will be notified in writing that they will remain
            under suspension or revocation for at least the original specified period. Revocation
            or suspension should also continue for the specified period for personnel in a
            temporary duty (TDY) status to another installation. Individuals who have had limited
            driving privileges granted by the installation commander must have a copy of the
            granting memorandum immediately available when operating a motor vehicle on
            base.
            2.5.2.3. Combined revocation actions will run consecutively within ACC.
        2.5.3. (Added) The installation commander or designee may authorize restricted driving
        privileges and determines if/when pass systems will be used. The restricted individual
        must have a copy of the letter of authorization in their possession and present it upon
        request.
     2.6. Alcohol and Drug Abuse Programs. Document all driving while intoxicated offenses
     using AF Form 3545, Incident Report or equivalent SFMIS report, to ensure accurate
     reporting under the Defense Incident-Based Reporting System (DIBRS).
     2.7. (Added) Locally Produced Forms. Coordinate locally produced forms used for traffic
     management with the installation SJA and forms and records managers prior to using to
     ensure forms and records management requirements are met.
        3.1.1. (Added) Nonmilitary and non-DoD tenant activities located on ACC installations
        must comply with the requirements of the host/tenant agreement.
     3.2. Motorcycles, Motor Scooters and Mopeds. ACC military and Department of Defense
     (DoD) civilian personnel, who ride in an on-duty status, must be licensed by civil authorities
     and have a Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF) Card on their person. Additionally, vehicle
     requirements and minimum Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) mandated by AFI 91-207,
     paragraphs 3.4.2. – 3.4.2.4., will be observed while operating a motorcycle on and off base.
AFMAN31-116_ACCSUP 25 APRIL 2013                                                                3


  ACC Military and DAFC who operate Government Owned Recreational Motor Vehicles
  (GORMVs) will have and maintain a Specialty Vehicle Institute of America (SVIA) course
  completion card on their person while operating a GORMV on the installation.
  3.3. Use of AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass. Incorporate policy and procedures
  governing the issue and control of visitor passes in the local supplement to this publication or
  in the local supplement to AFI 31-113.
     3.3.1. (Added) If AF Form 75 is retrieved upon completion of visits, identify the
     procedures in the local supplement to this publication or in the local supplement to AFI
     31-113.
  3.6. Vehicle Registration at Air Force Installations. Individuals who have had their on-
  base driving privileges suspended or revoked will immediately remove registration decals
  from their vehicle(s) and return same to the vehicle registration office.
         4.1.1.2. Vehicle operators are responsible for ensuring all vehicle occupants
         wear/utilize required restraint devices.
             4.1.1.2.1. (Added) Safety personnel may stop vehicles to conduct seatbelt
             surveys with the approval of the installation commander. Safety personnel will
             coordinate vehicle stops with the DFC.
     4.1.3. Off-road vehicles usage: The term “off-road vehicle (ORV)” means any motorized
     vehicle designed for or capable of travel on or immediately over land, water, sand, snow,
     ice, marsh, swampland, or natural terrain, that does not meet the Federal Motor Vehicle
     Safety Standard (FMVSS) for operation on public roadways. If state or local law has not
     established a minimum age, personnel must be at least 16 years of age to operate ORVs.
     Individuals under 16 years of age may operate ORVs only under adult supervision, unless
     prohibited by state or local laws. All-terrain vehicles to include go-carts and gas scooters
     and motorized scooters (Gopeds) are restricted on any roadway, parking lot, or sidewalk,
     except in established areas designated by the installation commander.
         4.1.3.1. (Added) All personnel who bicycle, roller blade, in-line-skate, skateboard,
         roller blade, or use Gopeds on ACC installations will wear approved protective
         helmets. Helmets will meet American National Standards Institute or Snell Memorial
         Foundation criteria. In addition to an approved helmet, the wear of elbow pads,
         kneepads, and wrist guards, is required for participants utilizing dedicated skate
         parks, arenas, or related facilities on ACC installations.
         4.1.3.2. (Added) The use of coaster-wheeled conveyance (defined as any form of
         object propelled afoot to include, but not limited to, in-line skates, roller skates,
         scooters, or skateboards) are restricted on any roadway, parking lot, or sidewalk,
         except in established areas designated by the installation commander.
     4.1.4. (Added) The chief of airfield management will provide program oversight for
     flightline vehicle operations IAW AFI 13-213, Airfield Driving.
     4.2.1. Personnel performing detailed investigations will be graduates of a formal course
     of instruction such as L8AZR3P071 0T0A, Traffic Management and Accident
     Investigation. The DFC may allow security forces members who have the necessary
     technical expertise and on-the-job training to perform accident investigations in cases
4                                                     AFMAN31-116_ACCSUP 25 APRIL 2013


       where a trained investigator is not available. Note: Formal training for these individuals
       is the goal. Unit training manage may obtain seats for this course through HQ
       ACC/A7STT using the formal training request process as covered in AFI 31-2646,
       Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs.
       4.3.1. DoD civilian members will report information to Security Forces if they are in an
       on-base accident involving injuries. All personnel on the installation are required to
       report any on base accident which results in damage to military property.
           4.3.3.6. If this authority is delegated, publish this information in the local supplement
           to this publication.
       4.4.1. Installation Commanders will determine reserved parking guidance for their
       installations.
       4.4.2. Installation Commanders will develop guidance concerning the issue and control
       of the identification media discussed above.
           4.4.3.1. If a parking warden program is used unit commanders may delegate a
           minimum of one primary and alternate at the grade of E-5 or above, or GS-6 or
           above, in writing.
       4.4.4. (Added) Units using Central Violations Bureau (CVB) Form 1805, United States
       District Court Violation Notice, will ensure governing court procedures for issuance are
       incorporated into unit training programs.
       4.4.5. (Added) Do not use CVB Form 1805 for parking violations.
    4.6. (Added) Headlights During Inclement Weather. Vehicle operators will turn on
    headlights from sunset to sunrise; during fog, smoke, or rain when windshield wipers are
    activated; and at any other time when persons and vehicles cannot be seen clearly.
    4.7. (Added) Cell Phone Usage. Vehicle operators on ACC installations and operators of
    government owned vehicles shall not use cell phones unless the vehicle is safely parked or
    unless they are using a hands-free device. The wearing of any other portable headphones,
    earphones or other listening devices (except for hand-free cellular phones) while operating a
    motor vehicle is prohibited.
    4.8. (Added) Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances. The use of Other
    Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGMVC), self-propelled assets providing a basic
    transportation capability (i.e., golf carts, all- terrain vehicles, quad-runners, etc) not meeting
    specifications of 49 CFR 571.500 FMVSS are prohibited on any roadway, parking lot, or
    sidewalk, except in established work areas designated by the installation commander.
    Personnel will wear appropriate personnel protective equipment, (i.e., seat belt, restraints,
    helmet, etc.), as prescribed in AFI 91-207, paragraph 2.2.5.1. – 2.2.5.3.4., while operating
    OGMVCs.
AFMAN31-116_ACCSUP 25 APRIL 2013                                                              5


  4.9. (Added) Traffic Law Enforcement Principles. Selective enforcement will be
  determined locally. The installation commander or DFC, if delegated, will establish
  procedures to evaluate traffic violations and vehicle accidents. Results of analysis should be
  provided to the base traffic board, Safety and law enforcement patrols. Review 32 CFR
  634.26 for further guidance if needed.




                                           DAVE C. HOWE, General, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                 AFMAN31-116_ACCSUP 25 APRIL 2013


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006
AFI 13-213, Airfield Driving, 1 Jun 2011
AFI 36-2646, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs, 13 Apr 2011
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 Oct 2011
AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7, Security Forces Administration and Reports, 28 Aug 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
32 CFR 634.26, Traffic Law Enforcement Principles, 1 Jul 2002
Prescribed Forms
This supplement does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass
AF Form 3545, Incident Report
ACC Form 15, ACC Motorcycle Trained Decal
DD Form 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACC/A7SOP—Law Enforcement/Air Provost
ACC/A7STT—ACC Security Forces Training
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ATV—all terrain vehicle
CVB—Central Violations Bureau
DAF—Department of Air Force
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DIBRS—Defense Incident-Based Reporting System
DoD—Department of Defense
GOPEDS—Gas Scooters and Motorized Scooters
IAW—in accordance with
MSF—Motorcycle Safety Foundation
AFMAN31-116_ACCSUP 25 APRIL 2013                      7


OGMVC—Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances
ORVs—off-road vehicles
SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TDY—Temporary Duty
