BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                AFMC INSTRUCTION 63-501
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                        14 DECEMBER 2001

                                                                                             Acquisition

                                                                       AFMC QUALITY ASSURANCE




                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the HQ AFMC WWW site at: https://
www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/


OPR: HQ AFMC/ENPD (Mr. Douglas K. Buse)                                     Certified by: HQ AFMC/EN
                                                                              (Mr. James A. Papa, SES)
                                                                                                 Pages: 4
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction provides quality assurance (QA) policy and assigns QA responsibilities for all AFMC
centers, units, and headquarters (HQ) functions. It implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 63-5,
Quality Assurance, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 63-501, Air Force Acquisition Quality Program, AFI
21-101 Maintenance Management of Aircraft, and AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management, and
applicable provisions in other Air Force and Department of Defense (DoD) directives. Organic quality
assurance policy for operational aircraft/equipment for AFMC Test Centers will be in accordance with
AFI 21-101, Maintenance Management of Aircraft, and AFMCI 21-119, Objective Center/Test Wing Air-
craft Maintenance Management Policy. This is the initial publication of this instruction.



1. AFMC Quality Assurance. AFMC is committed to providing superior quality weapon systems,
end-items, supplies, and services. AFMC program offices, buying offices, Air Force Research Labora-
tory, and all Centers must maintain acquisition and/or sustainment quality assurance processes that:
   1.1. Align the quality management system with strategic planning and AFMC’s management com-
   mitment.
   1.2. Provide essential quality policy and objectives for quality planning.
   1.3. Ensure the overall effectiveness of these efforts throughout the life-cycle of weapon system man-
   agement including operational support and disposal.
   All acquisition and sustainment personnel will be responsible for performing quality functions
   involved in their assigned duties. Program documentation will describe the quality management sys-
   tem and how it will contribute to minimizing cost, schedule, and performance risks throughout the
   product life cycle.
2                                                                 AFMCI63-501 14 DECEMBER 2001

2. Relationship to Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E). Quality manage-
ment is an important tool of the chief engineer and lead engineer to ensure OSS&E in support of the single
manager. Quality assurance trends are means for verifying the associated systems or the processes used
in support of such systems are operationally safe, suitable, and effective. While authority for decisions
affecting system configuration, maintenance procedures, and authorized usage can be delegated, the chief
engineer or lead engineer remains accountable and responsible. The chief engineer or lead engineer will
coordinate OSS&E activity with the single manager in accordance with AFMCI 63-1201, Assurance of
Operational Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness.

3. Responsibilities and Authorities :
    3.1. AFMC acquisition and sustainment organizations will ensure the applicable QA provisions are
    defined, documented, and implemented in their areas of responsibility. This responsibility includes
    gaining a clear understanding of the organization’s objectives as they relate to quality and of the
    expectations and needs of the customer throughout the weapon system lifecycle. They will monitor
    and control all activities that impact quality and ensure quality requirements and standards are consis-
    tently met.
    3.2. International Acquisitions. AFMC organizations responsible for international acquisitions must
    adhere to international QA policy defined in AFI 63-501, paragraph 3.
    3.3. HQ AFMC functional organizations will use QA techniques to measure, assess, report, and
    improve performance. A QA council, composed of HQ AFMC and center QA representatives as
    determined by the Center Commander or designee, will meet annually to work common QA issues
    and assess the overall health of AFMC quality assurance.
       3.3.1. HQ AFMC/EN, Directorate of Engineering and Technical Management, will monitor
       implementation of and ensure compliance with QA policies. They will provide management guid-
       ance, assist field activities, and monitor the effectiveness of all AFMC organizations. They will
       coordinate with SAF, USAF, other MAJCOMs, DoD components, federal agencies, and industry
       to resolve QA issues of mutual interest and to ensure joint service strategies are provided to all
       AFMC organizations. They will chair the QA council and manage deficiency reporting policy.
       3.3.2. HQ AFMC/LG manages the Supply Management and Depot Maintenance Mission Areas
       (SMMA and DMMA). The LG directorate will manage assigned DoD and Air Force programs
       and provide the environment for continual improvement of products, services, and processes asso-
       ciated with item management, transportation, supply, and Depot maintenance activities/policy.
           3.3.2.1. The SMMA will promote quality assurance in providing logistics services and pro-
           cesses to fulfill Air Force spare parts requirements. This includes requirements forecasting,
           item introduction, cataloging, procurement, repair, technical support, data management, item
           disposal, distribution management, and transportation. They will provide policy, guidance,
           and resources that create an environment for continuous improvement in the supply processes.
           3.3.2.2. The DMMA will promote quality assurance in the overhaul and repair of systems and
           spare parts, accomplished by both AFMC depots and contract operations. They will provide
           policy, guidance, and resources that create an environment for continuous improvement in
           maintenance and repair processes.
AFMCI63-501 14 DECEMBER 2001                                                                             3

     3.3.3. HQ AFMC/CE manages the AFMC Installations and Support Mission Area (I&S MA).
     The I&S MA will employ quality processes in support of units, operations, and their people with
     facilities, infrastructure, and base support.
     3.3.4. HQ AFMC/DO manages the AFMC Test and Evaluation Mission Area (TEMA). The
     TEMA will employ quality processes in providing support for AFMC's developmental test and
     evaluation (DT&E) requirements, its T&E infrastructure, and other operational services. The DO
     directorate will manage operational aircraft/equipment maintenance policy for AFMC product,
     test, and specialized centers, not including air logistic centers.
     3.3.5. HQ AFMC/DR manages AFMC product support mission area (PSMA) and the information
     services activity group mission areas (ISAG).
         3.3.5.1. The PSMA will ensure the quality of resources, policies, and processes required to
         plan, manage, and integrate weapon systems throughout their life cycles.
         3.3.5.2. The ISAG will ensure that quality requirements are defined and maintained through-
         out the development, maintenance, integration, and sustainment of the combat support infor-
         mation systems they provide to the user.
     3.3.6. HQ AFMC/PK will ensure that proper QA requirements, as requested by the responsible
     engineering organization, are included in all AFMC solicitations and contracts. HQ AFMC/PKO
     is the office of primary responsibility for the QA program for service contracts. (See AFI 63-124,
     Performance Based Service Contracts.)
     3.3.7. HQ AFMC/SC manages the AFMC information management mission area (IMMA). The
     IMMA will employ quality processes in its business operations.
  3.4. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) will ensure the Technology Directorates and Air Force
  Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) are supported with trained and competent personnel responsi-
  ble for QA. They will be responsible for appropriate quality process flow down through their direc-
  torates and for integrating quality processes into their research and development efforts. Directorate
  organizations that organically produce maintenance products, test models, hardware/software
  changes, or modifications to AFMC systems will document their QA programs in a quality plan.
  3.5. Product centers, test centers, and air logistics centers will ensure integrated product teams and/or
  program offices are supported with well-trained competent personnel responsible for providing qual-
  ity products and services.
     3.5.1. System program directors (SPD) and product group managers (PGM) are responsible for
     implementing the Acquisition Quality Program of AFI 63-501. Integration of QA processes with
     operational support and applicable test and laboratory activities will be considered to ensure a
     quality product.
         3.5.1.1. Chief engineers in support of single managers are accountable and responsible for
         QA duties to ensure manufacturing and repair entities deliver quality products. This includes
         the selection and qualification of new sources.
     3.5.2. Test centers are responsible for contract administration QA and organic maintenance QA.
         3.5.2.1. Test center Contract Administration Offices (CAO) are Air Force Contract Adminis-
         tration Service (CAS) components as identified in the Federal Directory of CAS Components,
         and perform test center CAS activities as prescribed in FAR Part 42 and Part 46. Test center
4                                                                 AFMCI63-501 14 DECEMBER 2001

           CAS QA representatives are responsible for ensuring QA contract administration and audit
           services are performed in accordance with formal agreements or delegations received from
           delegating agencies for contracts being performed at their centers.
           3.5.2.2. Test Center Organic Maintenance QA will be accomplished in accordance with AFI
           21-101 as implemented by AFMCI 21-119.
       3.5.3. ALCs and Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC). ALCs and
       AMARC will implement this instruction using provisions contained in functional QA policy
       directives.
           3.5.3.1. ALC and AMARC commanders will designate a center QA focal point responsible
           for implementing this instruction. Responsibilities will include the receipt, interpretation, dis-
           tribution, and implementation of policies and procedures affecting QA and assessment of their
           effectiveness.
           3.5.3.2. ALC Quality Manuals and Plans. All ALCs must maintain a center quality manual.
           All major organic depot maintenance workloads must be documented by the directorate QAP
           and/or supporting QAPs (see AFMCI 21-115). Figure 1. illustrates the hierarchy of quality
           program documentation flow. ALCs will establish internal reviews to measure compliance
           with AFMCI 63-501. The quality manual must be compatible with the provisions of ISO 9001
           in order to allow expansion to achieve ISO 9000 registration if required by customers or
           desired in the future.
           3.5.3.3. AMARC. A center quality manual is not required; however, all major workloads
           must be documented by a QAP.
           3.5.3.4. ISO 9000 registration of AFMC QA programs is not required. Second party certifica-
           tion or third party registration is left to the discretion of the center commander.
    3.6. Air Force Security Assistance Center (AFSAC). AFSAC will ensure that the required level of
    QA is provided in all Foreign Military Sales (FMS) contracts that it manages. AFSAC will tailor QA
    options for FMS purchasers based on the purchasers’ identified unique requirements.



                                          LESTER L. LYLES, General, USAF
                                          Commander
