BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                              AFMC INSTRUCTION 23-104
AIR FORCE MATERIAL COMMAND                                                                                                   2 AUGUST 1995

                                                                                                                                                Supply

                                                                                     FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
                                                                                       OF THE EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST
                                                                                               DURING PROVISIONING

                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/LGIM (Emil F. Schumaier)                                                                     Certified by: HQ AFMC/LGI
                                                                                                            (Col William E. Robinson)
Supersedes AFMCR 65-2, 6 Feb 86 and                                                                                          Pages: 47
           AFMCR 66-68, 18 Apr 86                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction provides guidance for the assignment of source, maintenance, and recoverability (SMR)
codes. It establishes the criteria for assigning maintenance and overhaul rates to support items entering the
Air Force via the initial provisioning process. This instruction implements AFMCPD 23-1, Sustainment
Materiel Acquisition Policy. This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard
units or members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


      1.      General. ......................................................................................................................       3
      2.      Objective. ...................................................................................................................        3
      3.      Maintenance Planning. ...............................................................................................                 3
      4.      Safety Planning. .........................................................................................................            3
      5.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................           3
      6.      Reparable Decisions: .................................................................................................                5
      7.      Source Coding Fundamentals: ...................................................................................                       7
      8.      Development of Repair Kits. .....................................................................................                     9
      9.      Support Equipment (SE): ...........................................................................................                  10
     10.      Relationship to System Engineer. ..............................................................................                      11
     11.      Relationship to Depot Maintenance Activities: .........................................................                              11
2                                                                                          AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


    12.     Relationship to Production Management: ..................................................................                 12
    13.     Relationship to Using Activity Base Capabilities and Facilities. ..............................                           12
    14.     Demand and Overhaul Rates. ....................................................................................           13
Table 1.    Average Total OIM Demand Rate ............................................................................                17
    15.     Operational Reliability: ..............................................................................................   19
    16.     Factoring Piece Parts: ................................................................................................   19
    17.     Economic Considerations in Maintenance Coding. ...................................................                        20
Figure 1.   Conversion Factors - Design MTBF to Maintenance ...............................................                           23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        24

Attachment 2—SAMPLE AFMC FORM 26                                                                                                      27

Attachment 3—STANDARD MAINTENANCE REPLACEMENT RATE I (MRR I) AND
             OVERHAUL REPLACEMENT RATE (ORR) FOR FSG 53 ITEMS                                                                         28

Attachment 4—STANDARD MAINTENANCE REPLACEMENT RATE I (MRR I) AND
             OVERHAUL REPLACEMENT RATE (ORR) FOR FSG 59 ITEMS                                                                         43
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                                  3


1. General. The equipment specialist (ES), engineering and reliability function, holds a key role in
developing and maintaining logistics support for Air Force systems and equipment. This responsibility
commences during the conceptual phase of system or equipment development (DODI 5000.2/AF Supple-
ment, Defense Acquisition Management Policies and Procedures) and continues until the system is
removed from the inventory. Of critical importance is the ES role during the acquisition phase of system
or equipment development. The technical decisions required during the early periods determine the effec-
tiveness of future logistics support capabilities and impact future reliability and maintainability (R&M) of
an item from cradle to grave. This instruction is directed primarily toward the ES responsibilities in the
areas of SMR coding, and the assignment of maintenance and overhaul replacement rates. The impact of
design on these decisions and their relationship with support activities requires these relationships and
interfaces be identified and briefly described.

2. Objective. Effective support will be provided for all new weapon systems, support systems, or end
articles of equipment entering the Air Force operational inventory. The availability of support in time to
meet delivery schedules of the end article requires that maintenance and logistics planning and program-
ming be started with and accomplished progressively from the conception phase. This planning will result
in formal provisioning actions (AFMCR 65-5, Air Force Provisioning Policies and Procedures) being
started during the engineering and manufacturing development (EMD) phase, so that shortly after produc-
tion contract award, spare orders can be submitted. This approach will assure effective support at the ear-
liest possible time. The ES must participate in technical interchange meetings covering repair level
analysis (RLA) and logistics support analysis (LSA). The early integration of the ES is essential to ensure
both the contractor and the Air Force reach a mutual understanding of the maintenance concept. This
establishes a precedence for the contractor recommended SMR codes, indentures, etc., that will be sub-
mitted on the provisioning technical documentation (PTD).

3. Maintenance Planning. One of the biggest problems facing Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
maintenance activities is maintaining the capacity to accomplish the maintenance support mission in an
exploding technological era. To effectively accomplish mission requirements, it is essential the ES play an
active and influential role during the design and development phases of the system as well as the acquisi-
tion process to include the LSA process. It is vital that they take a critical and thorough look at equipment
during design and development to study and plan concepts of maintenance and techniques of repair and to
influence the design to improve reliability, maintainability, and supportability. Delays in determining and
acquiring concurrent and compatible support requirements for organizational, intermediate, and organic
depot maintenance can be averted through active participation.

4. Safety Planning. The design, development and production of end items of equipment must meet fed-
eral safety and health standards. The ESs representing the air logistics centers (ALCs) for engineering
inspection and configuration review have the opportunity to identify potential safety and environmental
problems. Costly retrofit or modification can be averted by alerting the design agency of problems before
the production base line is established. Development of maintenance programs must also include the close
coordination and support of the ALC safety and environmental offices to assure safety and environmental
considerations are integrated into the programs.

5. Responsibilities. When the ES becomes involved in acquisition processes depends on the complexity
of the system or equipment being procured, the degree of advance engineering required by the contractor
to produce the end item for the Air Force, and the contractual requirements levied upon the contractor.
4                                                                       AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


ESs involved in acquiring support for less than major system acquisition programs may not have available
data from engineering studies and must rely on their experience and judgment in developing support capa-
bility. They must strive to obtain the most current predicted and proven reliability data, in the interest of
accurately forecasting initial spares operational requirements, because reliability of previous generations
of equipment may be considerably lower than the current generation. The activities and responsibilities
outlined below are those associated with acquiring major systems or equipment and may not be totally
applicable to all programs:
    5.1. Participate in the development of maintenance concepts, maintenance engineering plans and sup-
    ply support plan. Support the logistics input to the program management plan (PMP) and LSA
    (MIL-STD-1388-2B, DOD Requirements for a Logistics Support Analysis Record, or its replace-
    ment), tailored to limit the data requirement to only those data elements needed to identify and com-
    pute repair part support, data delivery format and media. This includes participation in R&M and
    reliability centered maintenance (RCM) initiatives which are used in developing logistics programs.
    5.2. Provide or recommend specific maintainability requirements, goals, and inspection and test
    requirements for inclusion in specifications beginning with request for proposals (RFP). Coordinate
    and participate at CCB proceedings for specification authentication of maintainability requirements.
    5.3. Provide ALC representation in source selection evaluation board proceedings.
    5.4. Review contractor mathematical logistics models for operational maintenance implications.
    5.5. Review maintainability and maintenance analysis data provided by contractor to verify consis-
    tency with Air Force maintenance policies and practices.
    5.6. Coordinate on requests for deviations from technical order (TO) specifications to ensure that
    logistics support impacts on the operational inventory are considered.
    5.7. Analyze test program results for maintenance implications.
    5.8. Provide ALC representative for engineering inspections and other reviews; for example, prelim-
    inary design reviews, critical design reviews (CDR), and the functional and physical configuration
    audits. Attendant to these reviews and inspections is the need for the ESs to identify potential candi-
    dates for interim contractor support.
    5.9. In conjunction with engineering specialists, identify test objectives and test data requirements
    (AFI 99-102, Operational Test and Evaluation) pertaining to engineering and logistics. Participate in
    the test force when AFMC participation is required to achieve stated test objectives. Collaborate with
    the test force to ensure that failure data are directed to all action agencies, and incorporate required
    changes into logistics planning for the operational inventory as early as practicable. Define mainte-
    nance tests needed to validate equipment allowance guides, including depot-level tools, test and cali-
    bration equipment.
    5.10. Verify -6 TO inspection and work card procedures and requirements, including decision logic
    analysis and base level repair capabilities.
    5.11. Provide assistance for in-process and prepublication reviews and participate in verification
    review of TOs (DODI 5000.2/AF Supplement) and automatic test equipment (ATE) software.
    5.12. Determine reparability of all items of material, assign SMR codes consistent with the mainte-
    nance concept, and establish maintenance and overhaul replacement rates for Air Force spare and
    repair parts support. Assign other codes such as item management codes (IMC), and materiel manage-
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                                 5


   ment aggregation codes (MMAC). This is started as early as possible in EMD when LSA is done and
   providing data is available, normally after CDR.
   5.13. Pay special attention to source coding of simple maintenance aids, holding fixtures and devices,
   hand tools and noncomplex bit and piece parts. The ES will:
      5.13.1. Determine the complexity and criticality of each item.
      5.13.2. Breakout those noncomplex, noncritical items.
      5.13.3. Consider base or depot fabrication or local purchase.
   5.14. Ensure establishment of the indentured application of each part for the weapon system or end
   item in the applications/programs indenture (API) as required.
   5.15. Assist in the establishment of repair requirements for reparable items, such as:
      5.15.1. Government furnished aerospace equipment (GFAE) common.
      5.15.2. GFAE peculiar.
      5.15.3. Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) managed items.
      5.15.4. Government furnished property (GFP) bailed GFP.
      5.15.5. Ammunition and explosives.
   5.16. Provide ALC input for preparation of test support plans.
   5.17. Participate in the resolution of maintenance interface problems among contractors, the using
   command, AFMC, and other services pertaining to the operational phase, including test programs.
   5.18. Assist in the identification and selection of special purpose recoverables authorized to mainte-
   nance (SPRAM) items required to support the system/ equipment (AFM 67, Volume I, Part One,
   Chapter 11).
   5.19. Participate in the development of initial spares support list (ISSL), readiness spares package
   (RSP), and assignment of standard reporting designators (SRD).
   5.20. Assist in the preparation of the depot support concept (DSC) when tasked by the program action
   directive (PAD) to the program management directive (PMD) or other AFMC tasking. The DSC will
   be prepared early in the program to identify logistics requirements to be satisfied by the system pro-
   gram director (SPD), (DODI 5000.2/AF Supplement).
   5.21. Assist provisioning personnel in LSA/logistics support analysis record (LSAR) review to assure
   provisioning requirements are adequately addressed. Also, review RLA input data report accuracy
   and output results for influence of recommended SMR codes provided during the LSA process, where
   possible, to eliminate duplication of effort subsequent to ES SMR code review/approval at the provi-
   sioning conference.

6. Reparable Decisions:
   6.1. Of the many maintenance decisions required of the ES during the acquisition process, the most
   basic and critical decisions are those involving repair and levels of repair. These decisions control the
   development of initial maintenance support programs, and impact the dollars that must be spent in
   buying this support. The reparable decisions must be based on and be consistent with the maintenance
6                                                                      AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


    concept for the system (two levels, three levels, etc.). In the Air Force, maintenance concepts in the
    past have been designed around three levels of maintenance: organizational, intermediate, and depot
    (as accomplished organically by AFMCs Technology Repair Center (TRC), interservice or contrac-
    tor). The decision to repair at any one of these levels generates a requirement to plan and procure sup-
    port equipment (SE), SE for SE training, spares, repair parts, TOs, etc., to sustain maintenance. New
    systems being developed or existing systems being modified are being designed for two levels of
    maintenance. The ES must be aware of the maintenance concept and be careful not to change the con-
    cept through source of repair decisions.
    6.2. The level of repair decision impacts the total maintenance support program. The ESs decision
    should be made an integral part of the system or equipment development. The analysis associated with
    a contractor's repair recommendations, and the Air Force's repair decision should be made as soon as
    the equipment preliminary design has been determined. The analysis should continue until a final
    hardware design is reached. This requires ES participation during the LSA, as required by DODI
    5000.2/AF Supplement.
    6.3. There are several advantages to incorporating repair decisions with the design effort. The ES
    must participate in or be aware of R&M programs for their obvious effect on maintenance programs.
    The inventory management specialist/system support manager (IMS/ SSM) ES must also be aware of
    CCB decisions that impact maintenance areas. In short, the ES must provide aggressive maintenance
    management. An advantage of integrating repair decisions into the design effort is the opportunity to
    mold maintenance experience into the design of the item. Another benefit is early identification of
    those items requiring SE, TOs, etc. The early identification of SE requirements is particularly impor-
    tant because lead times to design and produce SE can be as long as that of the end item. Delaying the
    establishing of a repair plan until a production contract or a provisioning conference could cause
    delivery of contractor furnished SE to slip past the operational need date.
    6.4. The definition, development, and implementation of a comprehensive repair program must con-
    sider those factors which significantly influence support costs and cost of ownership over the life
    cycle of the system or support needs. On major systems or equipment, analyzing repair alternatives in
    terms of cost requires systematic evaluation of the engineering process. A valuable tool in identifying
    the economical advantages or disadvantages or repair alternatives is MIL-STD-1390, Level of Repair
    Analysis (LORA). The techniques and processes outlined in MIL-STD-1390 or its replacement are pri-
    marily directed toward application by contractors. More specifically, they are an integral part of the
    contractor's R&M programs, for it is these design parameters which strongly influence and are influ-
    enced by the maintenance program. ESs must not only use RLA results in their decision processes but
    must actively participate in reviewing and developing the contractor's RLA plans. RLA direction is
    contained in AFMCR 800-28, Repair Level Analysis (RLA) Program.
    6.5. For those equipment programs that are not of sufficient size or complexity to warrant the appli-
    cation of RLA, the ES uses the economic analysis procedures outlined in paragraph 17. An economic
    analysis should always be considered as a supplement to the technical and operational considerations
    which can and do effect maintenance decisions. Design of the item, flight safety, mission success, or
    established maintenance policy are of primary consideration on the repair decision. This precludes a
    decision based only on economic constraints.
    6.6. The repair decision is documented through the use of the maintenance repair level (MRL) codes
    (TO 00-25-195, AF Technical Order System Source, Maintenance and Recoverability Coding of Air
    Force Weapons, Systems and Equipment). This TO contains an SMR coding matrix and a listing of
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                                 7


   acceptable SMR code combinations. This TO implements a joint service regulation known in the Air
   Force as AFR 66-45, Joint Regulation Governing the Use and Application of Uniform Source, Main-
   tenance and Recoverability Codes. SMR codes based on an approved RLA must not be changed later
   at a provisioning conference without an approved change to the established repair level decision and
   consideration of the impact on the maintenance and support plan. Complete coordination between the
   SPD, the ALC SSM, and the ES for the end item will be accomplished prior to any formal change
   action.
   6.7. In conjunction with the assignment of the maintenance code the ES must assign a single digit
   expendability, recoverability, reparability, category (ERRC) code (AFM 67-1, Volume I, Part Four,
   Chapter 1). The ERRC code is used by supply personnel to categorize inventory into various manage-
   ment groupings. These groupings determine the type of management employed throughout the item's
   logistics life, identifies the method to be employed in computing requirements, and are used in the
   accumulation and reporting of asset and usage data. The ERRC code must be compatible with the
   SMR coding decisions.

7. Source Coding Fundamentals:
   7.1. Source codes have three fundamental functions: provide maintenance activities a means of iden-
   tifying authorized methods of support; identify to the supply system those items maintenance consid-
   ers logical spare/repair parts or SE; and control, to a degree, the demands placed on the manufacturing
   capability of the Air Force. Complete details regarding the SMR codes authorized for use within the
   Air Force are contained in TO 00-25-195. The general categories of source codes are:
P - Procured items.
K - Items purchased as part of a maintenance/overhaul kit.
M - Items to be manufactured.
A - Items to be assembled.
X - Items not practical for either procurement, manufacture, or assembly.
SMR codes are initially entered in PTD or engineering data and then incorporated into the illustrated parts
breakdown (IPB) TO. Conditions affecting initial SMR code assignments are dynamic and changes may
be necessary to provide a viable maintenance program. Extreme variations in an item's cost, design
change, and new operational requirements are among the many factors that can provide justification for
an SMR code change. SMR code changes must be approved by the IMS/SSM ES.
   7.2. The ES from the engineering and reliability function, is responsible for the selection of spares,
   repair parts, part kits, and SE required for maintenance overhaul programs. Proper SMR coding
   reduces part number requisitions, limits manufacture of parts to low usage/casual replacement type
   items that are practical to manufacture, and generally enhances the entire logistics support of systems
   and equipment. To make effective decisions, the ES requires engineering data for provisioning
   (EDFP) (drawings, schematics and diagrams, etc.), sample articles, logistics data packages, and
   depending upon the complexity of the item, equipment, or system involved, the assistance of or advice
   from contractor technical/engineering personnel.
   7.3. AFMC maintenance facilities are established primarily for repair of Air Force equipment and
   materials. Organic facilities may be used for manufacture of items only when a clear determination is
   made that one or more of the circumstances in AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management, exists.
8                                                                        AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


    7.4. The correct assignment of SMR codes depends on the availability of technical information, pro-
    jected operational requirements, and the ability of the ES to correlate this information with previous
    experience on similar operational equipment. Listed below are types of data and information which
    can influence an SMR coding decision. It is not all inclusive nor will all of the list apply to all items,
    equipment, and systems. It is intended as an example.
       7.4.1. Mission and priority of the end item, equipment, or system. Flight/operational hours:
           7.4.1.1. Sorties per flight hours.
           7.4.1.2. Starts per flight/operational hour.
       7.4.2. Planned deployment and environmental conditions and geographical constraints.
       7.4.3. Programmed life in the Air Force inventory.
       7.4.4. Complexity of the item under consideration and its accessibility, functional, and physical
       interface with the next higher assembly.
       7.4.5. Maintenance concepts and plans.
       7.4.6. Maintenance resources and facilities required, the projected date of their availability and
       any new technology involved.
       7.4.7. SE plan for the equipment/system, particularly new peculiar SE. The status of its develop-
       ment and at what level of maintenance each item will be authorized and when it will be available.
       7.4.8. Results of reliability testing and maintainability demonstrations, if a contractual require-
       ment.
       7.4.9. Results of qualification testing.
       7.4.10. Results of development test and evaluation and operational test and evaluation.
       7.4.11. Results of physical and functional configuration audits.
       7.4.12. RLA data.
    7.5. With tools and information listed in the above paragraphs available, the ES should be able to
    assign logical SMR codes. The sequence in assigning SMR codes is to begin with the topmost draw-
    ing and part number, then code the items in disassembly order. The group assembly parts list is pre-
    pared in this order. Drawings should be available in the same order. Sample articles should be
    available. Review the parts list, drawing, and sample article simultaneously, consulting contractor
    engineering personnel as required. With program and testing information in mind, assign SMR codes.
    Some examples to be used as guidelines for the assignment of SMR codes follow:
       7.5.1. Normally chassis and main frame assemblies are not replacement items.
       7.5.2. Direct current (DC) motor brushes, brush caps, holders, and bearings are considered repair
       parts.
       7.5.3. Lamp receptacles, dust covers, waveguides, etc., are normally considered repair parts, but
       because of their imperviousness to wear out, their replacement factor is based on loss, mishan-
       dling, vulnerability to damage, etc.
       7.5.4. Armatures, if they exceed 50 percent of the cost of the motor, are not considered replace-
       ment items.
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                                    9


       7.5.5. All electronic/electrical parts are logical repair parts, unless they are part of a higher assem-
       bly that is to be discarded upon failure.
       7.5.6. Matched sets of items such as resistors, diodes, coil and resistor, and certain types of
       mechanical items, if they are logical repair parts, are source coded PA and the individual items of
       the matched set are coded XA.
       7.5.7. Crystals are normally considered logical repair parts and should be source coded PA. There
       are two categories of crystals, categories A and B. Category A crystals are included in the equip-
       ment when it is delivered, and identified in the provisioning document by frequency, type number,
       or part number. Spare category A crystals can be stocked, stored, and issued in the same manner
       and on the same schedule as other spare parts. Category B crystals are identified in the provision-
       ing document by basic type number, but without frequency information. Frequency of category B
       crystals is dependent upon operational requirements of the using activity of the end item. These
       crystals are not available from supply channels until using activities submit part number requisi-
       tions with attendant frequency requirements. Source code PA is applicable to both A and B crys-
       tals.
       7.5.8. Cable and hose assemblies should be considered for assembly rather than procurement. The
       decision to assemble rather than to procure should be made with the knowledge that the assembled
       item will function properly and maintain system requirements (for example, flight safety). For
       those cable and hose assemblies source coded for assembly, the hoses and cables within these
       assemblies will normally be made up from bulk material.
       7.5.9. Decalcomanias (decals), film markings, metal markings, etc., are not considered stockage
       items. These items are normally listed in the IPB, but procedures for their acquisition is contained
       in AFI 37-162, Managing the Processes of Printing, Duplicating and Copying.
       7.5.10. Springs, gaskets, control knobs, shafts, couplings, dials, etc., in most cases, are mainte-
       nance items.
       7.5.11. Bulk items and material, both commercial and military standard items such as hardware
       and fittings, general purpose hardware, wire, phenolic tubing, soft consumables, etc., are consid-
       ered repair parts.
       7.5.12. Low usage items such as spacers, housings, pump and valve bodies, etc., can be obtained
       through reclamation, when required.
       7.5.13. Cables, special tools, and extender boards designed as maintenance aids will be classified
       as SE and source coded accordingly.
   7.6. The SMR codes are recorded in the group assembly parts list, and will be entered in the earliest
   possible issue of the IPB TO. Proper source coding reduces part number requisitions, control service
   manufacture, and enhances the entire logistics support of systems and equipment.

8. Development of Repair Kits. The development of repair kits to support equipment can prove to be
the most effective and economical method of supply support. This approach, while readily adaptable to
equipment subject to wear or age deterioration, should be used with caution on electronic equipment
because they do not follow a wear-out pattern, nor do they have a predictable life. The ES must consider
the levels of repair and repair techniques used, economics of support kits, and the effect on related aspects
of logistics management. Shelf-life items are not included in the kit unless the shelf life equals or exceeds
10                                                                     AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


the time between overhaul of the component to which it is being applied. It is also incumbent on the ES to
periodically review the parts kits programs to ensure their compatibility with current usage information,
change in maintenance concepts, or change in operational requirements. Specific guidance as to parts kits
policies and procedures is outlined in AFMCM 65-42, Repair Parts Kits (D031) Users Manual.

9. Support Equipment (SE):
     9.1. All equipment (mobile or fixed) required to support the operation and maintenance of the system,
     including associated multiuse end items, ground handling and maintenance equipment tools, metrol-
     ogy and calibration equipment, test equipment and ATE, are within the SE arena. The identification
     and acquisition of SE is one of the most difficult support tasks associated with the system or equip-
     ment acquisition process. Identification by contractors of SE requirements early in the design devel-
     opment process, consistent with the operational and maintenance concepts and documenting these
     requirements to the Air Force for validation is paramount to the SE management program. The Air
     Force evaluation criteria must complement system or equipment design requirements, training
     requirements, operational requirements and projected maintenance programs.
     9.2. It is an AFMC responsibility to edit SE proposals to identify those that could be satisfied by SE
     currently in the inventory or modifying available SE to satisfy the requirement. To identify existing
     SE that may satisfy the requirement, the ES can use FEDLOG. Selection of SE will be made in the fol-
     lowing order:
        9.2.1. Standard item.
        9.2.2. Preferred item.
        9.2.3. Items already in the government inventory or being developed under government contract.
        9.2.4. Commercially available items that meet technical or logistic requirements.
        9.2.5. Modification of any of the above.
        9.2.6. Development of new items.
     9.3. Additionally, the use of Air Force depot manufacturing capabilities can be effective in develop-
     ing SE requirements. Centralized depot level manufacture of simple low cost SE and modifications of
     hand tools is frequently more cost effective than procurement from a contractor. Designation of an
     item for depot level manufacture or modification must be based on the following criteria:
        9.3.1. A cost effective analysis that verifies the decision.
        9.3.2. Availability of material and the necessary manufacturing data.
        9.3.3. The process of manufacture or modification is compatible with tools, equipment, or avail-
        able skills.
        9.3.4. Quantities required do not impose an undue workload.
        9.3.5. SE will be available by need date.
     9.4. The IMS/SSM ES, as the AFMC focal point for evaluating contractor SE proposals, is responsi-
     ble for:
        9.4.1. Evaluating the comments and recommendations from the other ALC offices and the using
        commands.
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                               11


       9.4.2. Assimilating this information from personal experience and knowledge of system or equip-
       ment maintenance requirements.
       9.4.3. Based on these findings, perform the following:
           9.4.3.1. Select the standard SE required to support the system.
           9.4.3.2. Identify the adequacy and need of developmental SE proposed by the contractor.
           9.4.3.3. Select the developmental SE for depot level requirements.
           9.4.3.4. Identify any required SE for SE.
   9.5. Validation of SE requirements and the method by which the ES decides to satisfy the requirement
   must be communicated to affected activities. If the decision is to manufacture instead of procure the
   item from a contractor, copies of SE documentation must be made available to the implementing
   agency and the maintenance organization responsible for manufacturing the item.
   9.6. The support decision creates the need to assign source codes (and appropriate maintenance/
   recoverability codes) to SE. The source code PE is assigned to items identified for procurement (both
   government furnished equipment (GFE) and contractor furnished equipment (CFE)). SE to be manu-
   factured is assigned a MD series source code or the K series code for support items contained in kits.

10. Relationship to System Engineer. The ES will obtain support from the system engineer during pro-
visioning activities, especially when determining the proper maintenance posture for fielding a new item
or system. The engineer and ES must validate that item or system's maintenance plan through RCM anal-
ysis.

11. Relationship to Depot Maintenance Activities:
   11.1. Preproduction planning experience is required to correlate repair and parts usage for the new
   equipment being procured. Preproduction planning is necessary to establish initial shop repair cycle
   time, and to evaluate the availability and adequacy of existing SE and facilities. Production personnel
   participation promotes early facility and production planning, and the development of manpower
   requirements for the establishment of a repair capability. This effort should be consistent with prees-
   tablished target dates for system and equipment support programs.
   11.2. The provisioning parts list (PPL), formerly called the recoverable item breakdown (RIB), is
   used by the ES to document SMR codes and the demand rates/ overhaul percent. It is the source doc-
   ument for the range and replacement rates of parts and material to be established in initial material
   standards. Care must be taken to assure that design changes and their effect on the initial maintenance
   decisions are considered in the material standards to prevent deficiencies in parts support. The results
   (material, derivation of material standards, master repair lists, and the coordination of changes
   between the SSM/IMS and the TRC) must be accurately maintained as long as the item must be
   repaired. The API subsystem, D200F, has been developed to record and continually update the initial
   maintenance decisions through the programmed life of the equipment. Accurate file maintenance by
   the ES is critical to ensure parts support since buy decisions are based on API data. The indentures
   show weapon system relationships in a top-to-bottom structure.
   11.3. In addition to assuring the availability of the updated range and rate of parts to support repair,
   the ES from the ALC assigned management responsibility (TO 00-25-115, Logistics/Maintenance
   Engineering Management Assignments) must ensure the TRC is provided the list of SE required to
12                                                                        AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


     support the repair program. This data must be provided in time to permit the TRC to requisition and
     position material and equipment to meet scheduled repair requirements. Continuity in all systems and
     equipment acquisition activities is required to assure the TRCs are provided all required support
     (spares, repair parts, SE TOs, training, etc.) for establishment of organic repair capability.

12. Relationship to Production Management:
     12.1. The functions and responsibilities of the ES can't be accomplished without the help of the pro-
     duction management specialist. Manufacturing workloads and repair scheduling must be planned and
     programmed on a timely basis. At the time of SMR coding, the ES will require the help of the produc-
     tion specialists in determining and establishing the capabilities of the maintenance shops to overhaul
     or manufacture items. Depot level manufacturing capabilities, such as numerically controlled (NC)
     equipment, will be taken into consideration in order to reduce the support costs to the Air Force. Prime
     candidates of parts to be manufactured by depot level maintenance NC equipment are insurance type
     items which have limited and infrequent usage and are complex in nature. Advance knowledge of
     items coded for overhaul or manufacture allows the production management specialist to anticipate
     and plan manufacturing workloads and attendant raw material requirements.
     12.2. Integration of the ES's decisions during the acquisition processes with production management
     is essential when relating to reparability coding. When identifying items for depot repair, the ES
     places the responsibility to immediately plan and project for expected repair workloads on production
     management through the IMS.
     12.3. The availability of an organic repair capability in time to support the initial deployment of a sys-
     tem or equipment is not always feasible because of design problems, or delays in delivery of SE, TOs,
     etc. Through participation in the design, development, and production processes, the ES should be
     aware of potential delays and initiate action to alert production management of these problems. Such
     delays could indicate the need for interim contractor support or accelerated planning action. The
     maintenance program should include the use of contractor support where necessary to achieve or sus-
     tain an operational capability. Contractor support programs for new items will be based on the pro-
     jected maintenance/overhaul factors and the expected operational program.
     12.4. At the time of initial repair projections, the ES is responsible for furnishing production manage-
     ment with an up-to-date list of source coded range and rate of parts selected to support anticipated
     repair workload.
     12.5. The ES is also responsible for providing to production management the list of applicable tools,
     test equipment, and TOs procured to support the repair program. Continuity and follow up from acqui-
     sition activities into production management is not only vital for timely establishment of organic
     repair capability, but for early establishment of maintenance contracts. The source coded range and
     rate of parts established in provisioning and updated because of design changes is the source docu-
     ment for material requirements lists for contractor maintenance. The maintenance and overhaul
     replacement rates determine the quantity of spare/repair parts requisitioned by or provided to the con-
     tractor to support the repair schedule. The accuracy of these factors determines the effectiveness of
     support for contract maintenance.

13. Relationship to Using Activity Base Capabilities and Facilities. The operation of Air Force sys-
tems and equipment requires a proficient maintenance organization. Maintenance cannot fulfill its obliga-
tions when requirements such as spare/repair parts, TOs, and test equipment are not available. Because of
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                                  13


design characteristics and complexity of repair, the scope of maintenance which can be accomplished at
the organizational and intermediate levels is controlled by the degree of technical skills required, cost of
peculiar SE, and spare/repair parts support. Early identification of these influencing factors is essential to
a successful maintenance program. It is important that using activity personnel participate in all facets of
the acquisition process, particularly in the level of repair decisions, and identifying methods (SMR cod-
ing) of supporting the repair program.

14. Demand and Overhaul Rates. For those items that are to be made available in the supply system,
the ES must project and assign the demand and overhaul rates necessary to compute initial requirements.
These factors establish the baseline for the initial requirements computation and identify projected main-
tenance actions that will affect supply. They also portray these maintenance actions into common lan-
guage and format that logistics systems can use.
   14.1. Care must be taken in the development of demand and overhaul rates. The accuracy of these
   factors is reflected in excesses or shortages during the initial operational and maintenance support
   periods. In effect, the demand and overhaul rates predict the total quantitative procurement, asset dis-
   tribution, dollars spent for spares and repair parts support, and integrity of the maintenance program.
   Significant changes to failure rates, including SPD/contractor provided data must be coordinated with
   the end article IMS or SSM so impacts can be assessed by management. No changes will be made to
   contractor furnished data by the ES if they were developed as part of a R&M program under LSA
   unless there is a change in mission or maintenance concept after the factors were developed. Such
   changes require the approval of the SSM. Data justifying significant changes should be maintained in
   the item/equipment history file.
NOTE: Demand rates and overhaul percents are not required on items source coded as "insurance" items.
Initial requirements for these types of items are based on quantities recommended by the ES.
   14.2. The following demand and overhaul rates were developed for use in determining initial require-
   ments and providing input data for various logistics systems such as D200F (API), D041, and D062.
       14.2.1. Total organizational intermediate maintenance demand rate (TOIMDR) (maintenance
       replacement rate I (MRR I)).
       14.2.2. Overhaul replacement rate (ORR).
       14.2.3. Condemnation below depot (CBD).
       14.2.4. Program depot maintenance (PDM) job-routed (JR) condemnation percent.
       14.2.5. Engine overhaul JR condemnation percent.
       14.2.6. Management of items subject to repair (MISTR) JR condemnation percent.
       14.2.7. PDM non-job-routed (NJR) program percent.
       14.2.8. Engine overhaul NJR program percent.
       14.2.9. MISTR NJR program percent.
       14.2.10. PDM NJR replacement percent.
       14.2.11. Engine overhaul NJR replacement percent.
       14.2.12. MISTR NJR replacement percent.
14                                                                      AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


        14.2.13. Depot replacement percent for economic order quantity (EOQ) items.
        14.2.14. EOQ condemnation percent.
        14.2.15. Not reparable this station (NRTS) percent.
        14.2.16. Condemnation at depot (CAD).
NOTE: Rates are not required/assigned on every item coded for procurement. The rates assigned depend
upon the authorized level of repair and are used for the item being rated and its relationship to the next
higher assembly.
     14.3. The frequency of maintenance actions and resultant demands on the supply system are propor-
     tional to the operational program and the reliability designed into the equipment. This relationship is
     exhibited in the factoring methodology.
     14.4. There are nine types of programs used in the computation of initial requirements. These pro-
     grams are divided into two categories: organizational intermediate maintenance (OIM) and depot
     level maintenance (DLM). The OIM programs generate requirements at the base level (also referred
     to as the field level). These demands upon supply are made at the base level. The DLM programs
     depict repair, overhaul, or modifications that will be accomplished at the depot level. These demands
     upon supply are made at depot level.
        14.4.1. There are six types of OIM programs:
            14.4.1.1. Hours.
            14.4.1.2. Inventory months (equipment months).
            14.4.1.3. Drone recoveries.
            14.4.1.4. 1000 rounds of ammunition.
            14.4.1.5. Aircraft sorties.
            14.4.1.6. Squadron months.
        14.4.2. There are three types of DLM programs:
            14.4.2.1. PDM.
            14.4.2.2. Engine overhaul.
            14.4.2.3. MISTR.
        14.4.3. The program applicable to a particular end item is identified by an initial requirements
        determination programming checklist. The programming checklist (PCL) can identify eight of the
        nine programs. The exception is the MISTR program. This program must be developed by the
        IMS or ES according to AFMCR 57-27, Initial Requirements Determination.
     14.5. The TOIMDR represents the rate at which OIM activities are expected to place a recurring
     demand upon base supply in relation to a given OIM program. The replacement of the item must fur-
     ther create a demand on supply for that item. The demand on supply or meantime between demand
     (MTBD) criteria exclude maintenance actions such as overhaul removals and other nondemand fail-
     ures, which are not part of the TOIMDR. The derivation of a total OIM demand rate must encompass
     such factors as the ratio of demands to failures, demands to maintenance actions, and operating hours
     to flying hours (utilization factor).
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                             15


      14.5.1. To develop the TOIMDR for an item with a quantity per assembly (QPA) of one or a quan-
      tity per end item (QPEI) of one and a single next higher assembly (NHA) or end item, estimate the
      time the item will experience between failure removals which places a demand on base supply
      (MTBD) and divide into the appropriate operating program unit. This figure represents the rate at
      which a single installed item will fail requiring removal and replacement at base level. The esti-
      mate must include considerations for:
          14.5.1.1. Design performance limitations.
          14.5.1.2. M&R analysis data.
          14.5.1.3. Similar or like item comparison and usage data.
          14.5.1.4. Contractor and vendor estimates.
          14.5.1.5. Mandatory removal intervals.
          14.5.1.6. Replacement due to repair of NHA.
          14.5.1.7. Test data and experience.
          14.5.1.8. Operational environment.
          14.5.1.9. Safety analysis data.
      14.5.2. If the applicable program is in program units of 100 hours (H), develop the rates by divid-
      ing 100 by the estimated MTBD. For example, when the MTBD is estimated at 1000 hours, the
      rates are as follows:
100 hours (program unit)     0.1000 maintenance
1000 hours (MTBD)            replacement rates
expressed as 0.1000
failure removals per
100 hours of program.
      14.5.3. If the applicable program is in program units of inventory month or squadron month (M),
      develop the rates by dividing one by the MTBD. For example, when the MTBD is estimated at 5
      months, the rates are as follows:
1 month (program unit)       0.2000 maintenance
5 months (MTBD)              replacement rates
expressed as 0.2000
failure removals per
1 month of program.
      14.5.4. If the applicable program is in program units of 1000 rounds of ammunition expended (R),
      develop the rates by dividing 1000 by the MTBD. For example, it is estimated that the item will
      require replacement of a single application every 5000 rounds, the rates are as follows:
1000 rounds (program unit) 0.2000 maintenance
5000 rounds (MTBD)           replacement rates
16                                                                     AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


expressed as 0.2000
failure removals per
1000 expended.
       14.5.5. The program to which the rates are applied must be in program units compatible with the
       rates. In computing gross removals for the initial requirements support period, the rates may be
       applied to aggregate end article/recoverable item programs as shown below:
25000 hours (programs)        250 program units of
100 hours (program unit)      100 hours each;
250 units x 0.1000
(MTBD) = 25 each.
The conversion from total operating hours of 100-hour increments will be accomplished during prepara-
tion of the PCL and is shown here only for the purpose of clarity.
       14.5.6. To develop the TOIMDR for multiple QPAs or multiple QPEIs within a single NHA or
       end item, determine the rate of each single application and divide the sum of the single rates by the
       total number of single applications. For example, the MTBD is estimated at 400 hours for the 1st
       application, 1800 hours for the 2nd application and 2300 hours for the 3rd application. The OIM
       demand rates and the TOIMDR are computed as follows:
lst Application               OIM Demand Rate
OIM demand rate = 100 hours
(program unit) ÷ 400 hours (MTBD) = 0.2500
2nd Application
OIM demand rate = 100 hours
(program unit) ÷ 1800 hours (MTBD) = 0.0555
3rd Application
OIM demand rate = 100 hours
(program unit) ÷ 2300 hours (MTBD) = 0.0435
Total OIM Demand Rate 0.3490
To compute the TOIMDR, use total OIM demand rate (0.3490) ÷ total number of single applications (3)
= 0.1163 TOIMDR (average failure removals per QPA or QPEI per 100 hours of the program).
       14.5.7. To develop the rate for multiple QPAs or QPEIs for multiple NHAs or end items, perform
       the following:
          14.5.7.1. Step 1. Multiply the QPA or QPEI of the items times the number of NHAs installed.
          14.5.7.2. Step 2. Determine the rate within a single NHA or end item and multiply that figure
          times the results of step 1.
          14.5.7.3. Step 3. Total the results and divide by the sum of all installed QPAs or QPEIs. For
          example: The F105 has two gyros, five actuators, and ten pumps. Bearing "XX" is used (QPA)
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                              17


          five times on each gyro, four times on each actuator, and three times on each pump. Establish
          an average total OIM demand rate as follows:

Table 1. Average Total OIM Demand Rate
Bearing      QPA X Installed        QPA                        OIM     Demand Rate
Gyro          5     X       2    =     10            X        0.250    =     2.50
Actuator      4     X       5    =     20            X      0.500      =    10.00
Pump          3     X      10    =     30            X      0.400      =    12.00
                                       60                                   24.50
Demand rate 24.50 divided by the installed QPA of 60 = average TOIMDR of 0.4083. This is expressed
as 0.4083 failure removals per QPA per operating program increment.
       14.5.8. Total OIM Demand Rate. This rate is expressed as a five-position number (that is, 0.5000)
       with the decimal point always being between the first and second positions. TOIMDRs are not
       required for items authorized for depot use only. The initial requirements for recoverable items
       authorized for depot use only are computed from the JR and NJR rates. The initial requirements
       for EOQ items authorized for depot use only are computed from the depot replacement percent
       and EOQ condemnation percent. EOQ items authorized for base use will have an OIM demand
       rate.
NOTE: Conversion tables for transposing anticipated MTBD to its compatible TOIMDR are in AFMCM
57-4, Recoverable Consumption Item Requirements System. Maximum use should be made of these
tables to eliminate rates interpolation through mathematical process.
       14.5.9. ORR. The ORR represents the replacement rate of a spare or repair part in the overhaul of
       the NHA. The maintenance decision for the item being factored or for its next higher assembly
       determines the need for the assignment of an overhaul replacement rate. This relationship also
       determines if the overhaul replacement rate is used to compute an initial requirement or to deter-
       mine asset distribution. The following rules apply in the assignment of ORRs:
          14.5.9.1. Subassemblies and bits and pieces for items with a D or L in the fourth position of
          the SMR code require an overhaul replacement/rate.
          14.5.9.2. Subassemblies and bits and pieces for items with an F in the fourth position of the
          SMR code will not require an overhaul replacement rate. It is imperative that indenture integ-
          rity be maintained to ensure proper parts projected and that initial computations are based
          upon the projected maintenance program of the next higher assembly.
NOTE: References are provided in Attachment 2 and Attachment 3 for federal supply groups (FSG) 53
and 59 respectively.
       14.5.10. CBD. The rate is assigned to items with an O or F in the fourth position of the SMR code.
       It represents that portion of the failed items removed and processed for base level which is con-
       demned at that level due to wear out or economical repair limitations. The entry for items with an
       O or F in the fourth position of the SMR code is used during the initial requirements computation
       and is vital to the accuracy of the initial procurement quantities. A base condemnation rate of 100
       is always applied to items with a B or Z in the fourth position of the SMR code. The CBD rate is
18                                                                  AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


     expressed as a two-position number (that is, .10) with the decimal to the left). 100 percent CBD
     will be expressed as .99.
     14.5.11. NRTS Percent. The base NRTS percent represents that portion of the estimated reparable
     generations which their repair shops are unable to repair and therefore are processed to a TRC.
     During initial provisioning, this applies only to items with D or L in the fourth position of the
     SMR code. The use of this factor and the technician's ability to accurately use it is important for
     determining the initial requirements. This factor, in conjunction with one or more of the other fac-
     tors, will assist in providing such information as percent base processed/repaired, percent depot
     processed/repaired, estimated quantities of depot condemnations, estimated reparable generations,
     and the overhaul recovery percent. An NRTS percent is not required for items with an 0 or F in the
     fourth position of the SMR code. These items are planned 100 percent field level repair. The
     NRTS factor must be portrayed on the provisioning document as a three-position number with the
     decimal point always between the first and second position (that is, 0.25).
     14.5.12. CAD. This is the ratio of reparables condemned in relation to the attempted repairs dur-
     ing depot level repair of the item. It does not include the condemnations of the item during the
     repair of a higher assembly.
     14.5.13. The PDM NJR Repair Percent. This factor is used to divide the PDM overhaul program
     into a JR and NJR program. It represents that portion of item removals during depot repair of the
     end item which is turned into supply for shipment to another facility.
     14.5.14. The Engine Overhaul NJR Repair Percent. This factor is used to divide the engine over-
     haul program into JR and NJR programs. It represents that portion of item removals during depot
     repair of the NHA or end item which is turned into supply for shipment to another repair facility.
     14.5.15. The MISTR NJR Repair Percent. This factor is used to divide the MISTR program into a
     JR and NJR program. It represents that portion of item removals during depot level repair of the
     NHA which is turned into supply for shipment to another repair facility.
     14.5.16. The PDM NJR Replacement Percent. When NJR items are removed during depot level
     repair, a replacement item is needed from supply. The PDM NJR replacement percent is the ratio
     of the PDM NJR replacements to the PDM NJR program.
     14.5.17. The Engine Overhaul NJR Replacement Percent. When NJR items are removed during
     depot level repair, a replacement item is needed from supply. The engine overhaul NJR replace-
     ment percent is the ratio of engine overhaul NJR replacements to the engine overhaul NJR pro-
     gram.
     14.5.18. The MISTR NJR Replacement Percent. When NJR items are removed during depot level
     repair, a replacement item is needed from supply. The MISTR NJR replacement percent is the
     ratio of MISTR NJR replacements to the MISTR NJR programs.
     14.5.19. Depot Replacement Percent. This percent is used for expense (EOQ) items. It is the num-
     ber of replaced repair parts divided by the program of the NHA or the end item.
     14.5.20. Normally, it will not be necessary to factor end items of equipment because the quantity
     procured is specified on the contract and initial spare requirements are not computed. However,
     there are cases when systems are procured for integration into other systems. In effect, this would
     make them subsystem or components and would therefore require factoring to provide input into
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                                 19


       various maintenance and logistics system (API-D200). ESs should be aware of this requirement
       and ensure, when necessary, these factors are assigned and provided to the required systems.

15. Operational Reliability:
   15.1. Attempts to forecast initial spare operational requirements against the engineered reliability
   value, meantime between failures (MTBF), consistently results in underpredicting initial require-
   ments. Because of this, the term MTBD was developed and is used as the base line for developing ini-
   tial maintenance and overhaul rates. However, the MTBD for the majority of items does evolve from
   the MTBF value. The disparity between the two figures is brought about by the inability of the reli-
   ability engineer to take into consideration, or to quantify, such parameters as operational environment,
   maintenance learning curve, or the ratio of operating hours to flying hours. ESs responsible for estab-
   lishing and maintaining demand and overhaul rates must understand and consider these varying differ-
   ences and at what point in time they occur.
   15.2. Figure 1. is a schematic diagram of the theoretical steps in converting the design (engineered)
   reliability value to an MTBD. The purpose is to explain the difference between the two values and
   provide a logical and progressive approach to documenting the conversion process. The left column
   shows the principle factors, with an arrow pointing to the equivalent formula in the center column.
   There are four K factors provided leading from the MTBF to the MTBD. These are:
       15.2.1. K1 - The ratio of the specified MTBD to the minimum acceptable MTBF. This ratio
       should be identified in that portion of the end item contract outlining reliability requirements.
       15.2.2. K2 - This recognizes the differences between failures which are contractor responsibility
       and measurable in the test environment as opposed to those failures occurring in the operating
       environment which creates a demand on the supply system. (This distinction in kinds of failure is
       shown in the right column.)
       15.2.3. K3 - Ratio of operating hours to flying hours. Operational reliability and demand interval
       of aeronautical items are normally based on flying hours. Design reliability is calculated and
       tested on the basis of actual hardware operating hours rather than flying hours.
       15.2.4. K4 - Ratio of demands (removals) to failures. Not all failures generate a remove and
       replace action and a demand for a spare. In some instances, the item may be removed, repaired,
       and reinstalled without requiring a like item from supply, or in certain instances, a failure can only
       be repaired by extensive shop repair time. Design of the item, location in higher assembly, and test
       concept influence this ratio. These factors may be one (1.00) or greater or less than one. The latter
       is expressed as a decimal fraction, for example, formula:
                                              MTBD = Design MTBF
                                                K1 x K2 x K3 x K4

16. Factoring Piece Parts:
   16.1. Demand and overhaul rates assigned at the piece part level will not be developed by the appli-
   cation of K factors. Any attempt to underrate the MTBF of the individual piece part would become so
   detailed and repetitious that the prediction would become too costly in terms of time and effort. The
   most logical method of developing demand and overhaul rates at the piece part level is to compare the
   items under review with the demand history of like or similar items. Depending on the degree of sim-
20                                                                     AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


     ilarity of equipment and application, the comparison method can be the quickest and most accurate
     means of predicting demand rates. The comparison method also permits the development and applica-
     tion of standard rates. A study of demand and overhaul rates assignments by individual ALCs resulted
     in the formation of standard factor lists (Attachment 2 and Attachment 3) for electronic components
     (for example, resistors and capacitors) and selected hardware items (for example, nuts, bolts, wash-
     ers). To achieve maximum benefit from the utilization of these tables the following procedures will
     apply.
     16.2. Standard maintenance and overhaul replacement rates for FSG 53 and 59 items, IMC coded for
     DLA management, are mechanically assigned based on the rates assigned to items listed in the stan-
     dard rates in Attachment 2 and Attachment 3. Rate assignments for FSG 53 and 59 items not identi-
     fied in Attachment 2 and Attachment 3 are according to procedures outlined in preceding
     paragraphs. Proposed changes or additions to the standard factors must be submitted to HQ AFMC/
     LGIM.

17. Economic Considerations in Maintenance Coding. For programs where a formal RLA or LSA has
not been accomplished, the economic analysis methods outlined below will be used to supplement the
technical and operational considerations which can and do affect maintenance decisions. Design of the
item, flight safety, mission success, or established maintenance policy are primary considerations. As
such, the use of this analysis may be precluded. If noneconomic considerations do not dictate the decision,
or only dictate a partial decision, this guidance applies.
     17.1. Data Requirements. There are four categories of data required to perform the economic analysis
     prescribed here:
        17.1.1. Data From Provisioning Documents:
            17.1.1.1. Item Cost. The projected cost of the item under analysis should be available on the
            provisioning documentation. Normally, these costs are justifiable estimates by the contractor;
            however, the ES/IMS/SSM should challenge the estimate in those instances where historical
            data and experience indicate differences. If the contractor cannot or will not justify the esti-
            mate and/or make an appropriate adjustment, the ES will provide a more realistic price which
            will be used to update the provisioning document and alert the administrative contracting
            office (ACO) that the estimated price has been challenged.
            17.1.1.2. Cost of Subassemblies/Bit and Piece. Costs for items of this type are normally avail-
            able on the provisioning documentation. If not or historical data and experience indicate dif-
            ferent costs estimates, the ES/IMS/SSM should challenge the contractor to justify or adjust
            estimates accordingly. If the contractor does not justify or adjust challenged estimates, the ES
            will provide a more reasonable estimate to be used to update the provisioning document and
            alert the ACO of a contractor price challenge.
            17.1.1.3. QPEI. The QPEI portrayed on the provisioning document is used in the economic
            analysis.
        17.1.2. Data from Initial Requirements Determination Programming Checklist:
            17.1.2.1. Life Expectancy. The period of time (in years) the end article will remain in the
            inventory.
            17.1.2.2. Procurement Quantity. The total number of end items programmed for entry into the
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                               21


           inventory.
           17.1.2.3. Usage Rate. The time one end item will be used in a 1-month period. For multiyear
           procurement contracts, the usage rate is the average flying hour program divided by the aver-
           age inventory.
       17.1.3. Developmental SE Data:
           17.1.3.1. Intermediate SE Acquisition Costs. The cost to develop and acquire SE; that is, ATE
           to support the item under analysis at one repair activity.
           17.1.3.2. TRC SE Acquisition Cost. The cost to develop and acquire SE to support the item
           under analysis at a TRC.
NOTE: If the SE is multifunctional (used in the repair of more than one assembly within the end item),
the economic evaluation must be conducted on an aggregate item basis. Under these conditions, the eco-
nomic analysis worksheets would reflect the total spares costs for all items associated with the same piece
of SE. Using this approach, all items under analysis would receive the same maintenance code. In cases
where software costs are involved, they must be included in the analysis.
           17.1.3.3. SE Maintenance Cost. The cost to maintain a piece of peculiar SE over its operation
           life. Unless otherwise known, the yearly cost is estimated at 10 percent of acquisition cost.
NOTE: Evaluate if equipment already in the Air Force inventory will fulfill requirements.
       17.1.4. Technical Projections:
           17.1.4.1. MTBD represents that portion of time an item will remain in operation before its
           removal will create a demand on supply. The MTBD is a derivative of the meantime between
           maintenance, type 1 (MTBM-1) and is to be developed according to AFMCM 57-4 and para-
           graph 14. and paragraph 15. of this instruction.
           17.1.4.2. Condemnation rate represents that portion of the failed items processed for repair or
           overhaul that will be condemned due to wear-out or excessive damage.
           17.1.4.3. Average repair time represents the projected time in hours required by maintenance
           to return a failed item to a serviceable condition.
           17.1.4.4. Average material cost per repair action represents the average cost of the material
           required to accomplish repair.
           17.1.4.5. Total number projected failures represents the total number of item failures requiring
           maintenance action to return to a serviceable condition. The failure need not necessarily create
           a demand on supply. The total number of projected failures represents all applications within
           the end article, over the life of the item.
   17.2. Application of Method. These procedures were developed under the premise that support costs
   which most influence an economic repair decision are SE, spares and repair parts, tools and labor.
       17.2.1. AFMC Form 26, Economic Analysis. The formulas and procedures identified in Figure
       1. provide a simplified technique for developing the individual cost categories. If the ES is aware
       of other relevant support costs, they will be identified in the column marked "OTHER" on the
       AFMC Form 26. A repair decision, particularly the initial decision, may change as more data is
       obtained. The chances for change increase as the cost projections for various alternatives draw
22                                                                         AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


        closer together. The sensitivity of the economic analysis can be determined by the following toler-
        ances:
50-100% difference = High confidence in decision.
20-50% difference = Moderate confidence in decision.
Less than 20% difference = Low confidence in decision.
        17.2.2. Initial Maintenance Decision. The equipment data required to conduct this analysis is nor-
        mally made available prior to and during initial provisioning. It is not recommended that the ES
        wait until the provisioning conference to do the analysis but progressively accumulate and formu-
        late cost figures. This will reduce the time required at the provisioning conference to complete the
        analysis. Before using this method on stock numbered items, it's important that ESs consider the
        maintenance decisions already established. If the previous decision was to "discard at failure," it
        may now be cost effective to establish a repair capability for all applications. However, the eco-
        nomical analysis should include the total support costs for all applications. For stock numbered
        items maintained by other services, repair considerations must include the possibility of using
        interservice maintenance contracts.
        17.2.3. Maintenance Recording. The conditions that affect or control initial maintenance deci-
        sions are dynamic and may require the Air Force to revise maintenance workloads as changes
        occur. As in initial maintenance decision, conditions that produce the need for change may dictate
        that economics take a secondary role in the decision process. For example, operational require-
        ments may limit the amount of SE authorized at the intermediate maintenance level. Alternatives
        are to discard or return the reparable to the depot for repair, or an item that normally would be dis-
        carded at failure must be coded for repair because a manufacturer is not available to produce a new
        item. However, the majority of changes to establish maintenance programs can and should be
        accomplished in an economic environment. These procedures can be used in developing and iden-
        tifying the support costs associated with changing maintenance codes. When making an analysis
        of this type, source data should be from historical files.
        17.2.4. Documenting Maintenance Alternative. AFMC Form 26 was developed to aid the ES in
        analyzing support costs. It also serves as formal documentation and summary of the analysis. It
        must be retained as part of the item history life.
     17.3. Split Level Repair. The method outlined in this instruction will result in a repair decision that
     will be either to discard or totally repair at either the field or TRC levels. If the maintenance tasks nec-
     essary for repair of an item in different failure modes vary greatly and require different resources, the
     repair of the item can be split between the base and TRC. The economic advantages of splitting the
     repair of an item between base and TRC can be evaluated by conducting the analysis described on a
     maintenance tasks basis. If the results indicate different decisions (base or TRC repair) for the individ-
     ual maintenance tasks on the same item, the assignment of a split-level maintenance code would be
     appropriate.
     17.4. Guidelines for Completing AFMC Form 26 (Attachment 2):
        17.4.1. Step 1. Collect all input data using the following sources:
            17.4.1.1. MTBM - Contractor, Historical Files.
            17.4.1.2. MTBD - AFMCM 57-4 and paragraph 15.1. of this instruction.
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                              23


         17.4.1.3. MTTR (Depot) - Contractor/D04l/DO56C (AFMCM 57-4).
         17.4.1.4. MTTR (Intermediate) - Contractor/ D041/ DO56C.
         17.4.1.5. Condemnation Percent - Contractor/ D04l/ DO56C
         17.4.1.6. Life Expectancy - Contractor/Life Cycle Historical Data.
         17.4.1.7. Average Monthly Usage - User/D056C, Historical Files.
         17.4.1.8. QPEI - Contract, Historical Files.
         17.4.1.9. Number of End Items - Contract, Historical File.
      17.4.2. Step 2. Substitute data values from step 1 in formula on AFMC Form 26.
      17.4.3. Step 3. Fill in cost data on AFMC Form 26.

Figure 1. Conversion Factors - Design MTBF to Maintenance




                                                  WILLIAM J. KOHLER, JR, Col, USAF
                                                  Deputy Director of Logistics
24                                                          AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Administrative Contracting Office
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
API—Applications/Programs Indenture
ATE—Automatic Test Equipment
CAD—Condemnation at Depot
CBD—Condemnation Below Depot
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CDR—Critical Design Review
CFE—Contractor Furnished Equipment
DC—Direct Current
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLM—Depot Level Maintenance
DSC—Depot Support Concept
EDFP—Engineering Data for Provisioning
EMD—Engineering and Manufacturing Development
EOQ—Economic Order Quantity
ERRC—Expendability, Recoverability Reparability, Category
ES—Equipment Specialist
FSG—Federal Supply Group
GFAE—Government Furnished Aerospace Equipment
GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
GFP—Government Furnished Property
IMC—Item Management Code
IMS—Inventory Management Specialist
IPB—Illustrated Parts Breakdown
ISSL—Initial Spares Support List
JR—Job-Routed
LSA—Logistics Support Analysis
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                      25


LSAR—Logistics Support Analysis Record
MISTR—Management of Items Subject to Repair
MMAC—Materiel Management Aggregation Code
MRL—Maintenance Repair Level
MTBD—Meantime Between Demand
MTBF—Meantime Between Failures
MTBM—Meantime Between Maintenance
NC—Numerically Controlled
NHA—Next Higher Assembly
NJR—Non-Job-Routed
NRTS—Not Reparable This Station
OIM—Organizational Intermediate Maintenance
ORR—Overhaul Replacement Rate
PAD—Program Action Directive
PCL—Programming Checklist
PDM—Program Depot Maintenance
PMD—Program Management Directive
PMP—Program Management Plan
PPL—Provisioning Parts List
PTD—Provisioning Technical Documentation
QPA—Quantity Per Assembly
QPEI—Quantity Per End Item
R&M—Reliability and Maintainability
RCM—Reliability Centered Maintenance
RFP—Request for Proposal
RIB—Recoverable Item Breakdown
RLA—Repair Level Analysis
RSP—Readiness Spares Package
SE—Support Equipment
SMR—Source, Maintenance and Recoverability
SPD—System Program Director
SPRAM—Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance
26                                                         AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


SRD—Standard Reporting Designators
SSM—System Support Manager
TO—Technical Order
TOIMDR—Total Organizational Intermediate Maintenance Demand Rate
TRC—Technology Repair Center
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                          27


                                   Attachment 2

                             SAMPLE AFMC FORM 26

Figure A2.1. Sample AFMC Form 26
28                                                        AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                           Attachment 3

       STANDARD MAINTENANCE REPLACEMENT RATE I (MRR I) AND OVERHAUL
                  REPLACEMENT RATE (ORR) FOR FSG 53 ITEMS

Table A3.1. MRR I/ORR (53 Items)
                                                               Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                                               Maint     Replacement
                                                             Factor       Percent
5305    Screws, assembled washer                            0.0060    0.01
5305    Screws, cap, hexagon head                           0.0060    0.01
5305    Screws, cap, socket, head                           0.0060    0.01
5305    Screws, close tolerance                             0.0090    0.02
5305    Screws, externally relieved body                    0.0060    0.00
5305    Screws, eye                                         0.0020    0.01
5305    Screws, instrument                                  0.0090    0.01
5305    Screws, machine                                     0.0060    0.02
5305    Screws, panel fastener                              0.0060    0.05
5305    Screws, self-locking                                0.0200    0.07
5305    Screws, shoulder                                    0.0060    0.01
5305    Screws, tapping, thread cutting                     0.0020    0.01
5305    Screws, tapping, thread forming                     0.0020    0.01
5305    Screws, wood                                        0.0020    0.01
5305    Setscrews                                           0.0090    0.01
5305    Thumbscrews                                         0.0060    0.01
5305    Screws, adjustable                                  0.0200    0.05
5305    Screws, flat                                        0.0060    0.01


5306    Bolts, assembled washer                             0.0060    0.02
5306    Bolts, clevis                                       0.0060    0.02
5306    Bolts, close tolerance                              0.0090    0.02
5306    Bolts, drive shank                                  0.0060    0.02
5306    Bolts, eccentric head                               0.0060    0.02
5306    Bolts, externally relieved body                     0.0060    0.02
5306    Bolts, eye                                          0.0090    0.02
5306    Bolts, fillister head                               0.0060    0.02
5306    Bolts, hanger                                       0.0020    0.02
5306    Bolts, hex head                                     0.0060    0.02
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                         29


                                            Std       Overhaul
FSC Item Name                             Maint     Replacement
                                          Factor       Percent
5306   Bolts, hook                       0.0020    0.02
5306   Bolts, internal wrenching         0.0060    0.02
5306   Bolts, internally relieved body   0.0060    0.02
5306   Bolts, key head                   0.0020    0.02
5306   Bolts, lag                        0.0020    0.02
5306   Bolts, machine                    0.0060    0.02
5306   Bolts, ring                       0.0020    0.02
5306   Bolts, self-locking               0.0200    0.02
5306   Bolts, shear                      0.0090    0.02
5306   Bolts, shoulder                   0.0060    0.02
5306   Bolts, sliding handle             0.0020    0.02
5306   Bolts, square neck                0.0060    0.02
5306   Bolts, tee-head                   0.0020    0.02
5306   Bolts, toggle                     0.0020    0.02
5306   Bolts, U                          0.0060    0.02


5307   Studs, continuous thread          0.0020    0.03
5307   Studs, extension                  0.0020    0.02
5307   Studs, locked in                  0.0090    0.03
5307   Studs, plain                      0.0060    0.03
5307   Studs, recessed                   0.0060    0.03
5307   Studs, recessed and stepped       0.0060    0.03
5307   Studs, self-locking               0.0200    0.03
5307   Studs, shouldered                 0.0060    0.03
5307   Studs, shouldered and stepped     0.0060    0.03
5307   Studs, stepped                    0.0060    0.03
5307   Studs, tapping, thread forming    0.0020    0.03
5307   Studs, welding                    0.0020    0.03


5310   Nuts, concave, hexagon            0.0090    0.01
5310   Nuts, concave, square             0.0090    0.01
5310   Nuts, eye                         0.0060    0.01
5310   Nuts, hexagon, jam                0.0020    0.01
30                                                    AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                                           Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                                           Maint     Replacement
                                                         Factor       Percent
5310   Nuts, plain                                      0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, barrel                              0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, blind rivet                         0.0020    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, cap                                 0.0140    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, castellated, hexagon                0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, castellated, octagon                       0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, clinch                              0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, cone seat, hexagon                  0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, dodecagon                           0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, double ball set, hexagon            0.0140    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, extended washer, double hexagon     0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, extended washer, hexagon            0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, extended washer, square             0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, hexagon                             0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, internal wrenching                  0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, knurled                             0.0140    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, octagon                             0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, plate                               0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, rectangular                         0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, round                               0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, single base set, hexagon            0.0140    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, slotted, hexagon                    0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, slotted, octagon                    0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, spline                              0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, square                              0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, tubular                             0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, welding                             0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, plain, wing                                0.0090    0.04
5310   Nuts, self-locking, assembled washer             0.0200    0.04
5310   Nuts, self-locking, barrel                       0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, blind rivet                  0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, cap                          0.0250    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, castellated, hexagon         0.0200    0.07
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                             31


                                                                Std       Overhaul
FSC Item Name                                                 Maint     Replacement
                                                              Factor       Percent
5310   Nuts, self-locking, castellated, octagon              0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, clinch                            0.0250    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, cone seat, hexagon                0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, double ball seat, hexagon         0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, double hexagon                    0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, extended washer, double hexagon   0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, extended washer, hexagon          0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, extended washer, square           0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, gang channel                      0.0400    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, hexagon                           0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, internal wrenching                0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, knurled                           0.0200    0.01
5310   Nuts, self-locking, single ball seat, hexagon         0.0200    0.07
53l0   Nuts, self-locking, slotted, hexagon                  0.0200    0.07
53l0   Nuts, self-locking, slotted, octagon                  0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, spline                            0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, square                            0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, welding                           0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, plate                             0.0200    0.07
5310   Nuts, self-locking, round, except bearing             0.0200    0.17
5310   Nuts, self-locking, wing                              0.0250    0.01
5310   Nuts, sheet spring                                    0.0090    0.01
5310   Nuts, sleeve                                          0.0090    0.01
5310   Nuts, stamped                                         0.0090    0.01
5310   Nuts, Tinnerman                                       0.0090    0.01
5310   Nuts assemblies, retainer plate                       0.0140    0.01
5310   Nut assemblies, retainer ring                         0.0140    0.01
5310   Nut assemblies, self-locking, gang angle              0.0400    0.07
5310   Nut assemblies, self-locking, gang channel            0.0400    0.07
5310   Nut spaces, plate                                     0.0900    0.01
5310   Nut strips                                            0.0140    0.01
5310   Push on nuts                                          0.0400    0.02
5310   Recessed washers                                      0.0060    0.02
32                                 AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                        Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                        Maint     Replacement
                                      Factor       Percent
5310   Rivet                         0.0250    0.07
5310   Slotted nuts                  0.0090    0.01
5310   Spanner nuts                  0.0400    0.01
5310   Washers, bevel                0.0090    0.01
5310   Washers, C                    0.0090    0.01
5310   Washers, concave              0.0060    0.01
5310   Washers, convex               0.0060    0.01
5310   Washers, countersunk lock     0.0200    0.03
5310   Washers, external lock        0.0200    0.03
5310   Washers, finishing            0.0060    0.01
5310   Washers, flanged cup          0.0060    0.03
5310   Washers, flanged dish         0.0060    0.03
5310   Washers, flat                 0.0060    0.01
5310   Washers, internal lock        0.0200    0.03
5310   Washers, key                  0.0090    0.01
5310   Washers, keyway               0.0090    0.01


5315   Key machine                   0.0020    0.01
5315   Key, woodruff                 0.0040    0.02
5315   Nails                         0.0020    0.02
5315   Pins, cotter                  0.1000    0.02
5315   Pins, drive                   0.0400    0.03
5315   Pins, grooved, headed         0.0400    0.03
5315   Pins, headless                0.0700    0.03
5315   Pins, lock                    0.0020    0.03
5315   Pins, retaining               0.0400    0.03
5315   Pins, shoulder headless       0.0400    0.03
53l5   Pins, shoulder headed         0.0400    0.03
5315   Pins, straight headed         0.0400    0.02
53l5   Pins, straight headless       0.0400    0.02
53l5   Pins, straight threaded       0.0020    0.02
53l5   Pins, tapered plain           0.0400    0.00
53l5   Pins, tapered threaded        0.0040    0.00
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                   33


                                                      Std       Overhaul
FSC Item Name                                       Maint     Replacement
                                                    Factor       Percent
5315   Pins, toggle, eye collar                    0.0090    0.03
5315   Pins, toggle headed                         0.0090    0.03
5315   Tacks                                       0.0020    0.03
5315   Pins, grooved, headless                     0.0040    0.03
5315   Pin, spring                                 0.0090    0.02
5315   Plates, door kick                           0.0060    0.02
5315   Plates, door push                           0.0060    0.02
5315   Plates, mending                             0.0040    0.20
5315   Plates, resilient mount                     0.0040    0.20
5315   Plugs, expansion                            0.0040    0.20
5315   Plugs, fusible                              0.0060    0.05
5315   Plugs, protective, dust and moisture seal   0.0090    0.20
5315   Plug, assemblies, sealing                   0.0060    0.05
5315   Plungers, quick release                     0.0060    0.05
5315   Pockets, stake                              0.0020    0.01
5315   Points, glazer                              0.0060    0.02
5315   Pokers                                      0.0020    0.01
5315   Poles, sash                                 0.0060    0.02
5315   Post, electrical and mechanical equipment   0.0090    0.05
5315   Pulleys, sash                               0.0020    0.01
5315   receptacles, friction catch stud            0.0400    0.20
5315   Receptacles, quick release pins             0.0400    0.20
5315   Retainers, assembled nut                    0.0090    0.05
5315   Retainers, nut and bolt                     0.0060    0.02
5315   Rings, door flush                           0.0020    0.01
5315   Rods, grooved, headless                     0.0400    0.20
5315   Rods, straight, headless                    0.0400    0.20
5315   Rod ends, externally threaded               0.0400    0.20
5315   Rod ends, internally threaded               0.0400    0.20
5315   Saddles, pipe covering protection           0.0060    0.02


5320 Caps, rivet                                   0.0060    0.02
5320 Collars, pin-rivet, grooved                   0.0060    0.02
34                                                     AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                                            Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                                            Maint     Replacement
                                                          Factor       Percent
5320   Collars, pin-rivet, threaded                      0.0060    0.02
5320   Pin-rivets, dowel                                 0.0060    0.02
5320   Pin rivets, grooved                               0.0060    0.02
5320   Rivets, blind                                     0.0090    0.02
5320   Rivets, solid                                     0.0090    0.01
5320   Rivets, split                                     0.0060    0.02
5320   Rivets, structural                                0.0090    0.02
5320   Rivets, tubular                                   0.0060    0.02


5325   Caps, snap fastener                               0.0090    0.02
5325   Chains, interlocking slide fastener               0.0090    0.02
5325   Clinch plates, snap fastener                      0.0090    0.02
5325   Clinch plates, turn button fastener               0.0200    0.10
5325   Cowling fastener, aircraft                        0.0200    0.10
5325   Ejector springs, turn lock fastener               0.0200    0.10
5325   Ejector spring assemblies, turn lock fastener     0.0200    0.10
5325   Eyelets, metallic                                 0.0090    0.02
5325   Eyelets, nonmetallic                              0.0090    0.02
5325   Eyelets, turn lock fastener                       0.0090    0.02
5325   Fasteners, positive lock                          0.0090    0.02
5325   Fasteners, slide interlocking                     0.0090    0.02
5325   Fasteners, snap                                   0.0090    0.02
5325   Fasteners, snap slide                             0.0090    0.02
5325   Fasteners, spring tension, trim                   0.0200    0.02
5325   Fasteners, turn button                            0.0200    0.02
5325   Fastener assemblies, turn lock                    0.0200    0.02
5325   Grommets, metallic                                0.0060    0.02
5325   Grommets, plastic                                 0.0090    0.02
5325   Grommets, rubber                                  0.0200    0.04
5325   Latches, snap slide fastener                      0.0090    0.02
5325   Latch guides, snap slide fastener                 0.0090    0.02
5325   Locksprings, turn lock fastener                   0.0200    0.02
5325   Posts, snap fastener                              0.0090    0.02
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                                      35


                                                                         Std       Overhaul
FSC Item Name                                                          Maint     Replacement
                                                                       Factor       Percent
5325   Post, snap slide fastener                                      0.0090    0.02
5325   Receptacles, positive lock                                     0.0200    0.03
5325   Receptacles, turn lock fastener                                0.0200    0.03
5325   Retainer, turn lock fastener ejector spring                    0.0200    0.02
5325   Sliders and pulls, interlocking slide fastener                 0.0200    0.02
5325   Sockets, push button fastener                                  0.0090    0.02
5325   Sockets, snap fastener                                         0.0090    0.02
5325   Sockets, turn button fastener                                  0.0200    0.02
5325   Stops, interlocking slide fastener                             0.0090    0.02
5325   Studs, lock pin fasteners                                      0.0090    0.01
5325   Studs, push button fasteners                                   0.0090    0.01
5325   Studs, snap fasteners                                          0.0090    0.01
5325   Studs, snap slide fastener                                     0.0090    0.01
5325   Studs, turn button fastener                                    0.0200    0.01
5325   Studs, turn lock fastener                                      0.0200    0.01
5325   Stud assemblies turn lock fastener                             0.0200    0.01
5325   Supports, snap fastener                                        0.0090    0.01
5325   Studs, positive lock                                           0.0090    0.01


5330   Bibb Washers                                                   0.0140    0.05
5330   Disks, solid, plain                                            0.0060    0.02
5330   Gaskets                                                        0.0200    0.38
5330   Gasket and preformed packing assortments, except specially     0.0140    0.38
       designed
5330   Gasket and performed packing sets, except specially designed   0.0140    0.38
5330   Gasket and seal sets, except specially designed                0.0140    0.38
5330   Gasket and shim sets, except specially designed                0.0140    0.38
5330   Gasket assortments, except specially designed                  0.0140    0.38
5330   Glands, packing                                                0.0060    0.20
5330   Grease seals, except specially designed                        0.0060    0.20
5330   Leathers check valve                                           0.0140    0.38
5330   Leathers hydraulic packing                                     0.0140    0.38
5330   Lock on seals                                                  0.0140    0.38
36                                                                 AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                                                        Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                                                        Maint     Replacement
                                                                      Factor       Percent
5330   Oil seals, except specially designed                          0.0060    0.20
5330   Packing, preformed                                            0.1000    0.34
5330   Packing, retainer ring                                        0.0140    0.50
5330   Packing assemblies                                            0.0140    0.50
5330   Packing assortments, preformed, except specially designed     0.1000    0.50
5330   Packing rings                                                 0.0140    0.50
5330   Packing with retainers, except specially designed             0.0140    0.50
5330   Pipe flange gaskets                                           0.0200    0.50
5330   Preformed packing assemblies, except specially designed       0.0140    0.50
5330   Retainers, packing                                            0.0140    0.50
5330   Ring gaskets                                                  0.0140    0.38
5330   Seals, plain                                                  0.0060    0.38
5330   Seals, plain encased                                          0.0060    0.38
5330   Seal rings, metal                                             0.0090    0.38
5330   Sealing rings                                                 0.0090    0.20
5330   Sleeves, seal, coupler                                        0.0060    0.20


5335 Metal Screening                                                 Bulk items not subject
                                                                     to maintenance factoring


5340   Adapters, resilient mount                                     0.0090    0.20
5340   Anchor plates, steel strapping                                0.0060    0.02
5340   Bands, retaining                                              0.0090    0.20
5340   Brackets, angle                                               0.0060    0.03
5340   Brackets, handrail                                            0.0020    0.03
5340   Brackets, shelf                                               0.0020    0.03
5340   Brackets, track sliding door                                  0.0060    0.03
5340   Bumpers, luggage                                              0.0060    0.03
5340   Bumpers, plastic                                              0.0060    0.03
5340   Bumpers, rubber                                               0.0090    0.02
5340   Buttons door                                                  0.0060    0.03
5340   Buttons, plug                                                 0.0060    0.03
5340   Casters, rigid                                                0.0200    0.03
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                        37


                                           Std       Overhaul
FSC Item Name                            Maint     Replacement
                                         Factor       Percent
5340   Casters, swivel                  0.0200    0.03
5340   Catches, clamping                0.0060    0.20
5340   Catches, elbow                   0.0020    0.03
5340   Catches, friction                0.0060    0.03
5340   Chains, transom                  0.0020    0.03
5340   Clamps, I-beam gripping          0.0060    0.03
5340   Clamps, instrument mounting      0.0400    0.03
5340   Clamps, lid and body, luggage    0.0060    0.03
5340   Clamps, loop                     0.0090    0.01
5340   Clamps, rim clenching            0.0200    0.03
5340   Clamps, tray, luggage            0.0200    0.03
5340   Claws, flush catch               0.0060    0.03
5340   Clevises, rod end                0.0400    0.20
5340   Clips, retaining                 0.0090    0.20
5340   Clips, split tubular             0.0090    0.20
5340   Clips, spring tension            0.0090    0.03
5340   Clips, steel beam flange         0.0060    0.03
5340   Closers, door                    0.0060    0.03
5340   Connectors, rod end              0.0200    0.20
5340   Control, rods                    0.0400    0.20
5340   Corners, case                    0.0060    0.01
5340   Couplings clamp grooved          0.0400    0.20
5340   Coupling halves, clamp grooved   0.0400    0.20
5340   Cups, furniture                  0.0060    0.03
5340   Cups, suction                    0.0090    0.03
5340   Dogs, door closer                0.0060    0.03
5340   Doorknobs                        0.0020    0.07
5340   Doorstops                        0.0060    0.01
5340   Escutcheon plates                0.0090    0.03
5340   Eyes padlock                     0.0060    0.03
5340   Eye hooks                        0.0090    0.07
5340   Fairlead halves, tubular         0.0060    0.03
5340   Fasteners, casement              0.0060    0.03
38                                        AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                               Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                               Maint     Replacement
                                             Factor       Percent
5340   Fasteners, flarelock                 0.0060    0.03
5340   Ferrules, grooved clamp coupling     0.0060    0.03
5340   Frames, rigid caster                 0.0200    0.20
5340   Frames, swivel caster                0.0200    0.20
5340   Glides, furniture                    0.0020    0.07
5340   Grips, handle                        0.0020    0.01
5340   Handles, bail                        0.0060    0.03
5340   Handles, bow                         0.0060    0.03
5340   Handles, extension, wood             0.0020    0.01
5340   Handles, hook                        0.0020    0.01
5340   Handles, luggage                     0.0020    0.01
5340   Handles, recess                      0.0020    0.01
5340   Handle caps, luggage                 0.0020    0.01
5340   Hangers, screen and storm sash       0.0020    0.01
5340   Hangers, sliding door                0.0200    0.20
5340   Hinges butt                          0.0090    0.07
5340   Hinges, strap                        0.0200    0.02
5340   Hinges, tee                          0.0020    0.01
5340   Holders, door                        0.0020    0.01
5340   Holders, key                         0.0020    0.01
5340   Hooks, coat and hat                  0.0020    0.01
5340   Hooks, door                          0.0020    0.01
5340   Hooks, hammock                       0.0020    0.01
5340   Hooks, mailbag rack                  0.0020    0.01
5340   Hooks, screw                         0.0060    0.03
5340   Hooks, support                       0.0090    0.07
5340   Hooks and eves, door                 0.0060    0.03
5340   Inserts, screw thread                0.0400    0.20
5340   Keepers, slide                       0.0090    0.07
5340   Key blanks                           0.0060    0.03
5340   Key chains and reel                  0.0060    0.03
5340   Latches, mortise                     0.0200    0.07
5340   Latches, thumb                       0.0060    0.03
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                               39


                                                  Std       Overhaul
FSC Item Name                                   Maint     Replacement
                                                Factor       Percent
5340   Latch sets, mortise                     0.0400    0.01
5340   Latch sets, rim                         0.0400    0.07
5340   Lifts, sash                             0.0060    0.03
5340   Locks, flush                            0.0090    0.03
5340   Locks, luggage                          0.0060    0.03
5340   Locks, rim                              0.0200    0.07
5340   Locks sets, mortise                     0.0060    0.03
5340   Lock sets, rim                          0.0400    0.03
5340   Mounts, resilient                       0.0400    0.20
5340   Pads, shock mount                       0.0400    0.20
5340   Padlocks                                0.0020    0.01
5340   Patches, mechanical, flexible surface   0.0400    0.20
5340   Patches, mechanical, rigid surface      0.0400    0.20
5340   Pins, quick release                     0.0400    0.20
5340   Plates, clip retainer                   0.0090    0.03
5340   Seals, metallic                         0.0400    0.07
5340   Seals, self-locking                     0.0200    0.07
5340   Shields, expansion                      0.0090    0.03
5340   Shields, stovepipe                      0.0060    0.03
5340   Shields, termite                        0.0060    0.03
5340   Snap hooks                              0.0400    0.07
5340   Spring hooks, cremation urn             0.0060    0.01
5340   Staples, hasp                           0.0060    0.01
5340   Stays, folding                          0.0060    0.01
5340   Stays, sliding                          0.0060    0.20
5340   Straps, line supporting                 0.0400    0.20
5340   Straps, retaining                       0.0400    0.20
5340   Studs, friction catch                   0.0400    0.20
5340   Supports, pipe, chair                   0.0090    0.03
5340   Supports, pipe, hook                    0.0090    0.03
5340   Supports, pipe seat                     0.0090    0.03
5340   Tie-rods, tensioning, threaded end      0.0400    0.20
5340   Timber rings                            0.0020    0.01
40                                                      AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                                             Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                                             Maint     Replacement
                                                           Factor       Percent
5340   Tips, furniture leg                                0.0060    0.07
5340   Tracks, sliding door                               0.0400    0.07
5340   Supports, pipe saddle                              0.0090    0.03
5340   Turnbuckles                                        0.0400    0.07
5340   Turnbuckle assemblies                              0.0400    0.20
5340   Turnbuckle bodies                                  0.0400    0.20
5340   Delay lines                                                  0.13


5355   Adjusters, meter pointer                           0.0200    0.05
5355   Bushing-shafts, panel                              0.0090    0.05
5355   Couplings, insulated, bushing-shaft                0.0090    0.05
5355   Covers, dial, multiapplication                     0.0200    0.05
5355   Cursors, indicator                                 0.0090    0.05
5355   Dials, control                                     0.0200    0.05
5355   Dials, scale                                       0.0200    0.05
5355   Dial-knob locks, electronic component              0.0400    0.05
5355   Extension shafts, except specially designed        0.0090    0.05
5355   Masks, dial, multiapplication                      0.0200    0.05
5355   Pointers, dial                                     0.0140    0.05
5355   Shaft locks, electronic component                  0.0090    0.05
5355   Shutters, dial, multiapplication                   0.0400    0.05
5355   Stops, dial                                        0.0200    0.05
5355   Windows, dial                                      0.0090    0.05


5360   Engine, value springs                              0.0060    0.01
5360   Initial tension extension springs                  0.0060    0.01
5360   Initial tension springs                            0.0090    0.01
5360   Springs, body support                              0.0060    0.01
5360   Springs, cap, distributor                          0.0020    0.01
5360   Springs, contract, ignition                        0.0020    0.01
5360   Springs, cowling fastener                          0.0020    0.01
5360   Springs, door, adjustable                          0.0020    0.01
5360   Springs, earth moving and excavating equipment     0.0020    0.01
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                               41


                                                  Std       Overhaul
FSC Item Name                                   Maint     Replacement
                                                Factor       Percent
5360   Springs, flat                           0.0140    0.01
5360   Springs, garter, extension              0.0020    0.01
5360   Springs, ground, ignition               0.0020    0.01
5360   Springs, helical                        0.0020    0.30
5360   Springs, helical, compression           0.0020    0.30
5360   Springs, helical, extension             0.0020    0.30
5360   Springs, helical, torsion               0.0020    0.30
5360   Springs, mobil crane and crane-shovel   0.0140    0.01
5360   Springs, seat, valve                    0.0090    0.01
5360   Spring, spiral                          0.0090    0.01
5360   Springs, spiral, torsion                0.0090    0.01
5360   Springs, valve                          0.0090    0.01
5360   Springs, volute                         0.0090    0.01
5360   Springs, wheeled tractor                0.0060    0.01


5365   Bushings, machine thread                0.0090    0.03
5365   Bushings, rubber                        0.0090    0.03
5365   Bushings, tapered                       0.0090    0.03
5365   Bushings blanks                         0.0090    0.03
5365   Plugs, machine thread                   0.0090    0.03
5365   Plugs, machine thread, magnetic         0.0090    0.03
5365   Rings, connecting, round                0.0020    0.07
5365   Rings, dee                              0.0020    0.07
5365   Rings, externally threaded              0.0090    0.20
5365   Rings, lock, keyed                      0.0020    0.20
5365   Rings, lock serrated                    0.0020    0.20
5365   Rings, retaining                        0.0060    0.40
5365   Rings, retaining, instrument            0.0060    0.40
5365   Ring sets, retaining, instrument        0.0060    0.40
5365   Shims                                   0.0090    0.20
5365   Shims, battery terminal post            0.1000    0.40
5365   Shims, brake lining                     0.1000    0.40
5365   Shims, retaining washer                 0.0090    0.20
42                                  AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                         Std       Overhaul
 FSC Item Name                         Maint     Replacement
                                       Factor       Percent
5365   Shims, assortments             0.0090    0.20
5365   Shim sets                      0.0020    0.20
5365   Spacer, axle, landing gear     0.1000    0.20
5365   Spacers, plate                 0.0020    0.20
5365   Spacers, ring                  0.0060    0.20
5365   Spacers, sleeve                0.0020    0.20
5365   Spacers, stepped               0.0060    0.20
5365   Spacers assortments, plate     0.0020    0.20
5365   Spacer sets, plate             0.0020    0.20
5365   Spacer sets, ring              0.0060    0.20
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                            43


                                            Attachment 4

    STANDARD MAINTENANCE REPLACEMENT RATE I (MRR I) AND OVERHAUL
               REPLACEMENT RATE (ORR) FOR FSG 59 ITEMS

Table A4.1. MRR I/ORR (59 Items)
                                                                        Overhaul
                                                           Std Maint
    FSC     Item Name                                                  Replacement
                                                             Factor
                                                                         Percent
   5905     Potentiometer                                   0.0200         0.11
   5905     Resistor, adjustable                            0.0200         0.11
   5905     Resistor, fixed, composition                    0.0200         0.04
   5905     Resistor, fixed, film                           0.0100         0.04
   5905     Resistor, fixed, wirewound                      0.0100         0.03
   5905     Resistor, variable wirewound                    0.0100         0.11
   5905     Resistor, variable                              0.0200         0.07
   5905     Rheostat                                        0.0050         0.11


   5910     Capacitor, fixed, electrolytic                  0.0050        0.05
   5910     Capacitor, fixed, glass dielectric              0.0050        0.05
   5910     Capacitor, fixed, mica dielectric               0.0050        0.06
   5910     Capacitor, fixed, paper dielectric              0.0050        0.06
   5910     Capacitor, fixed, plastic, dielectric           0.0050        0.05
   5910     Capacitor, fixed, oil dielectric                0.0050        0.05
   5910     Capacitor, fixed, ceramic                       0.0050        0.04
   5910     Capacitor, variable, air dielectric             0.0080        0.07
   5910     Capacitor, variable, ceramic                    0.0100        0.07
   5910     Capacitor, variable, oil                        0.0300        0.07


   5915     Filter, audio frequency                         0.0070        0.07
   5915     Filter, band pass                               0.0070        0.08
   5915     Filter, band supressor                          0.0070        0.07
   5915     Filter, DC power                                0.0100        0.07
   5915     Filter, radio interference                      0.0070        0.10
   5915     Network, impedence matching                     0.0100        0.07


   5920     Arrestor, electrical surge                      0.0200        0.35
   5920     Fuse, cartridge                                 0.0500        0.90
44                                                  AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                                                 Overhaul
                                                    Std Maint
     FSC    Item Name                                           Replacement
                                                      Factor
                                                                  Percent
     5920   Fuse, electrical                         0.0200         0.35
     5920   Fuse, holder                             0.0050         0.05


     5925   Circuit breaker                          0.0100        0.04


     5930   Switch, box                              0.0050        0.10
     5930   Switch, knife                            0.0050        0.10
     5930   Switch, limit                            0.0400        0.10
     5930   Switch, pressure                         0.0300        0.10
     5930   Switch, rotary                           0.0100        0.10
     5930   Switch, stepping                         0.0100        0.10
     5930   Switch, toggle                           0.0100        0.02
     5930   Switch, thermostatic                     0.0300        0.20
     5930   Switch, sensitive                        0.0300        0.20
     5930   Switch, push                             0.0100        0.10
     5930   Adapter, switch actuator                 0.0050        0.08


     5935   Connector, electrical, cable guard       0.0100        0.05
     5935   Connector, electrical, receptacle        0.0100        0.09
     5935   Connector, high voltage                  0.0100        0.05
     5935   Plug, electrical                         0.0100        0.03
     5935   Socket, relay & socket, tube, plug-in    0.0060        0.03
     5935   Clamp cable, electric                    0.0060        0.03
     5935   Shield, electric                         0.0300        0.55
     5935   Key, polarizing                          0.0100        0.01
     5940   Terminal, board                          0.0050        0.02
     5940   Terminal, feed thru                      0.0050        0.03
     5940   Terminal, lug                            0.0050        0.01
     5940   Terminal, post                           0.0050        0.02
     5940   Terminal, stud                           0.0050        0.02
     5940   Clip, electrical                         0.0050        0.01


     5945   Relay, AC-DC control                     0.0100        0.37
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                                       45


                                                                   Overhaul
                                                      Std Maint
   FSC    Item Name                                               Replacement
                                                        Factor
                                                                    Percent
   5945   Relay, multipurpose                          0.0300         0.55
   5945   Relay, thermal                               0.0400         0.25
   5945   Relay, armature                              0.0100         0.12
   5945   Relay, motor driven                          0.0100         0.05
   5945   Relay, solenoid                              0.0300         0.13
   5945   Solenoid, electrical                         0.0400         0.37


   5950   Choke, filter                                0.0050        0.02
   5950   Choke, radio frequency                       0.0050        0.01
   5950   Coil, deflection yoke                        0.0100        0.01
   5950   Coil, radio frequency                        0.0060        0.15
   5950   Reactor                                      0.0160        0.06
   5950   Reactor, saturable                           0.0070        0.02
   5950   Reactor, transformer                         0.0070        0.02
   5950   Transformer, audio                           0.0050        0.02
   5950   Transformer, power fixed (below IKVA)        0.0160        0.11
   5950   Transformer, power, variable (below IKVA)    0.0200        0.07
   5950   Transformer, pulse                           0.0050        0.08
   5950   Transformer, radio frequency                 0.0050        0.11
   5950   Transformer, electrical (general)            0.0010        0.08


   5960   Base, shield                                 0.0050        0.02
   5960   Base, switch                                 0.0050        0.02
   5960   Base, tube                                   0.0050        0.02
   5960   Tube, electron                               0.1000        0.73
   5960   Tube, electron power                         0.2500        0.73
   5960   Shield, electron                             0.0050        0.26
   5960   Retainer, electron                           0.0050        0.02


   5961   Pad, transistor                              0.0100        0.10
   5961   Semiconductor device, diode                  0.4000        0.14
   5961   Socket, semiconductor device                 0.0060        0.02
   5961   Socket, tube                                 0.0060        0.01
46                                        AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995


                                                       Overhaul
                                          Std Maint
     FSC    Item Name                                 Replacement
                                            Factor
                                                        Percent


     5961   Transistor, low frequency      0.0300        0.26
     5961   Transistor, power              0.1000        0.26
     5961   Retainer, transistor           0.0060        0.02
     5961   Photoelectric cell             0.1000        0.11
     5961   Rectifier, semiconductor       0.2500        0.35
     5961   Insulator                      0.0020        0.01


     5962   Core, memory, magnetic         0.0020        0.05
     5962   Integrated circuits            0.0100        0.20


     5963   Electronic modules             0.0100        0.20


     5965   Headsets                       0.0200        0.11
     5965   Jack assy, tip                 0.0100        0.04
     5965   Jack, telephone                0.0100        0.02
     5965   Loud speaker                   0.0200        0.11
     5965   Microphone                     0.0200        0.20
     5970   Bushing, sleeve                0.0050        0.11
     5970   Insulator, disk                0.0050        0.11
     5970   Insulator, feed thru           0.0050        0.11
     5970   Insulator, post                0.0080        0.20
     5970   Insulator, standoff            0.0080        0.20
     5970   Insulator, washer              0.0080        0.20
     5970   Insulator, pin                 0.0080        0.20
     5970   Insulator, electrical          0.0080        0.20


     5975   Clamp, electrical              0.0050        0.03


     5977   Brushes, electrical contact    0.0050        1.00
     5977   Holder, brush contact          0.0050        0.25
     5977   Holder, clip                   0.0050        0.25
AFMCI23-104 2 AUGUST 1995                                             47


                                                         Overhaul
                                            Std Maint
   FSC    Item Name                                     Replacement
                                              Factor
                                                          Percent
   5985   Antenna                            0.0050         0.08
   5985   Attenuator, fixed                  0.0050         0.08
   5985   Attenuator, variable               0.0100         0.10
   5985   Coupler, directional               0.0100         0.10
   5985   Dummy load                         0.0050         0.05
   5985   Waveguide                          0.0100         0.10
   5985   Waveguide, flexible                0.0300         0.20


   5990   Motor, selsyn                      0.0060        0.10
   5990   Syncho, receiver                   0.0060        0.10
   5990   Syncho, receiver, transmitter      0.0060        0.10
   5990   Syncho, resolver                   0.0060        0.10
   5990   Syncho, transmitter                0.0060        0.10


   5995   Cable assembly, control            0.0050        0.02
   5995   Cable assembly, power              0.0050        0.02
   5995   Cable assembly, radio frequency    0.0100        0.05


   5995   Wiring harness                     0.0050        0.01


   5999   Contact, electrical                0.0100        0.10
   5999   Gasketing material, conductive     0.0080        0.20
   5999   Heat sink                          0.0060        0.02
   5999   Shield, electron tube              0.0080        0.02
   5999   Shield, cathode ray tube           0.0080        0.02
