BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FOR MATERIAL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2801

                                                                           5 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                                  INTERNATIONAL AWARDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFLCMC/WFNB                                                     Certified by: AFLCMC/WF
                                                                     (Brig Gen Shaun Q. Morris)
Supersedes:    AFMCI 36-2801,                                                         Pages: 14
               21 May 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards, by providing
guidance and procedures for Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) International Awards to
encourage professionalism throughout the fields of armaments cooperation and security
assistance. It prescribes policy and procedures for award nomination, selection, and
presentation. To ensure a full understanding of the international award process and the terms
used, users of this instruction should familiarize themselves with the guidance in AFI 16-110,
United States Air Force Participation in International Armaments Cooperation Programs, and
Department of Defense (DoD) 5105.38-M, Security Assistance Management Manual. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule. This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authorities to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in
this publication are Title 10, United States Code Section 8013, and Executive Order 9397. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. This publication may
be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. This instruction applies to all
active-duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve (AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG) members, and
civilian employees paid through appropriated or security assistance funds.
 2                                                                                 AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes in guidance and procedures concerning the
International Awards program. This revision takes into account the October 2012 AFMC

5-Center Construct which includes an OPR office symbol change and revisions to nomination
procedures, nomination date deadline, submittal location, updates to selection process, and title
of International Award OPR lead. The revision also clarifies award nomination procedures (para
5.3.3) and adds a record check to the cover letter. Three attachment updates: Attachment 3
(1206 sample), Attachment 5 (Cover Letter sample), and Attachment 7 (Team Award participant
list). The AFMC Vice Commander Endorsement Memo in the previous guidance has been
removed. This action was made to provide a clear distinction from the AFMC International
Affairs Award and the Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs (SAF/IA) Excellence
Award. All references to the SAF/IA Excellence award have been removed with the exception
of paragraph 9.

       1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    2
       2.      Awards to be Presented. .........................................................................................              3
       3.      Criteria for Nomination. .........................................................................................             4
       4.      Eligibility. ..............................................................................................................    4
       5.      Nomination Procedures for the AFMC International Affairs Award ....................                                            4
       6.      Selection Procedure. ..............................................................................................            5
       7.      International Award Board. ...................................................................................                 6
       8.      Awards Presentation: .............................................................................................             6
       9.      AFMC International Award (as it relates to the SAF/IA Excellence Award): ......                                                6

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                7

Attachment 2—INTERNATIONAL AWARDS                                                                                                             8

Attachment 3—SAMPLE AF FORM 1206                                                                                                             10

Attachment 4—SAMPLE CITATION                                                                                                                 11

Attachment 5—SAMPLE COVER LETTER                                                                                                             12

Attachment 6—SAMPLE PUBLIC RELEASE STATEMENT                                                                                                 13

Attachment 7—SAMPLE TEAM AWARD PARTICIPANT LIST                                                                                              14


1. Purpose. These awards acknowledge the distinguished service of those AFMC personnel
who made significant contributions to international affairs in the fields of armaments cooperation
and security assistance, resulting in mature international relationships that support the United
States’ commitment to global peace. Specific areas include: political-military affairs, security
assistance programs, technology and information transfer, disclosure policy and related
AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  3


activities, as well as attaché and security cooperation officer affairs. These international
activities further the pursuit of United States national security goals and objectives, improve
coalition warfighting capabilities, and promote allied Air Force modernization in a manner that
supports and enhances collective security and regional stability.
   1.1. Armaments cooperation focuses on opportunities for armaments and logistics
   cooperation of various levels with allies of the United States. The efforts are characterized
   by international cooperation and technology transfer programs with the goal to develop, field,
   and support, through equitable burden sharing, the most effective means to achieve
   standardization and interoperability of conventional military equipment for our forces and
   those of our allies.
       1.1.1. Armaments cooperation includes, but is not limited to, International Cooperative
       Research, Development, and Acquisition programs and support, and unique cooperative
       military-to-military programs.
   1.2. Security assistance describes a group of programs authorized by the Foreign Assistance
   Act of 1961, the Arms Export Control Act, and other related statutes by which the United
   States provides defense articles, military training, and other defense-related services, by
   grant, credit, cash sale, lease, or loan, to further national policies and objectives.
       1.2.1. Security assistance includes, but is not limited to, Foreign Military Sales (FMS)
       and Support, Foreign Military Financing (FMF) Program, International Military
       Education and Training, International Logistics Programs and Support, Building Partner
       Capacity programs, and program/case management.
   1.3. Intent of the Award Program
       1.3.1. The intent of these awards is to reward those individuals and teams whose
       outstanding and innovative contributions have the greatest impact on AFMC international
       affairs partnerships. These contributions are the most effective at building, sustaining,
       expanding, and guiding international relationships. These contributions help shape the
       operational environment for expeditionary, space, and cyberspace forces.
       1.3.2. These awards serve as an incentive to the workforce to achieve the above goals.
       The awards are intended to improve workforce morale and to inspire the international
       support community by commemorating achievements by its workforce. The awards also
       reinforce the AFMC organizational goals to create an effective and efficient organization
       dedicated to customer support through the application of continuous process
       improvement techniques.
2. Awards to be Presented. These awards recognize outstanding achievement in the two major
areas of international affairs:
   2.1. International Award for Armaments Cooperation.
   2.2. International Award for Security Assistance.
   2.3. Within each of these two broad areas, there are three categories of awards presented.
   The first is the Supervisory Award, for achievement that is based upon and includes the
   formal supervision and direction of the efforts of others. The second award is the Non-
   Supervisory Award, also called the Program or Project Manager Award. This award is for
   individual achievement that does not involve formal supervision. The third category is the
 4                                                        AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


     Team Award, which recognizes the collective efforts of two or more individuals working
     toward the same goal.
3. Criteria for Nomination. The criteria should include, but not be limited to, actions resulting
in improvements to the management of programs and processes, initiation of programs, service
to international partners, and more efficient use of resources (Attachment 2). Accomplishments
should be described, as much as possible, in quantifiable terms as to their contributions to the
AFMC international affairs mission.
     3.1. International Award for Armaments Cooperation.
        3.1.1. Unique program or system changes that enhance opportunity for standardization
        and interoperability with allies, and provide incentives for allies to make greater
        investment in modern conventional military equipment. They enable economies of scale
        afforded by coordinated research, development, acquisition and production support
        programs, and promote mutual access to, use of, and protection of the best technology
        developed by the United States and our allies to avoid duplication.
     3.2. International Award for Security Assistance.
        3.2.1. Exceptional actions relating to: program, case, and country management of
        international logistics and financial programs and systems, new initiatives and process
        improvements that enhance support of articles and services sold through an international
        program, or the reduction of costs to foreign purchasers.
4. Eligibility. The awards are open to all AFMC security assistance personnel, civilian and
military, regardless of career field, whose efforts have contributed to the support of international
partners or more efficient use of resources in the field of international activities. Active-duty Air
Force, AFRC, and ANG members and civilian employees paid through appropriated funds are
also eligible for this award. This award is an incentive meant to inspire, motivate, and recognize
Airmen below the rank of flag officer and Senior Executive Service (SES). Contract personnel
are not eligible for individual awards; however, they are eligible for team awards.
     4.1. The International Award for Armaments Cooperation is for non-supervisory and
     supervisory personnel, as well as members of a government-led team.
     4.2. The International Award for Security Assistance is for non-supervisory and supervisory
     personnel, as well as members of a government-led team.
     4.3. For purposes of these awards, a “team” is defined as a group of professionals, matrixed
     group, process improvement team, process action team, or an integrated process team formed
     or chartered to improve and/or provide specific processes, products, and/or services in either
     armaments cooperation or security assistance. Eligible teams may cross organizational
     boundaries. The criteria for the team awards are the same as for the individual nominations.
     4.4. An individual or team may not be nominated 2 years in a row for the same effort. An
     individual may be rewarded twice if that person is nominated for both an individual and team
     award. An award may be given posthumously. Nominees should not have approved
     separation or retirement dates during the eligibility and nomination periods.
5. Nomination Procedures for the AFMC International Affairs Award Head Quarters (HQ)
AFMC and each AFMC Center Commander may nominate two persons for each individual
category, and two teams for each team category within the fields of security assistance and
AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  5


armaments cooperation. This equates to 12 possible nominations for each Center. HQ AFMC
and each AFMC Center will be responsible for establishing an award board if there are more
nominations than what is allotted to move forward to compete in the AFMC International
Awards. The nomination package should consist of:
   5.1. . No more than a one-page, single-spaced, Times New Roman font, 12-pitch,
   typewritten bullet-style narrative, in electronic format, using the most current version of AF
   Form 1206, Nomination for Award (front side only), citing specific achievements
   (Attachment 3). Required headings are: Improvements to Management of Programs and
   Processes, Initiation of New Programs, Service to International Partner(s), and Efficient Use
   of Resources.
   5.2. A recommended citation to accompany the award (Attachment 4). For team citations,
   use only the team name; do not list the team members’ names in the award citation. Please
   attach a separate sheet to the team citation to list the members of the team, providing name,
   grade/rank, and office symbol (Attachment 7).
   5.3. A cover letter signed by the Center Commander, Vice Commander, or Executive
   Director (Attachment 5). The cover letter captures Center-level approval prior to
   submission to AFMC. The cover letter will contain the following information: nominee
   name, position title, a brief description of current duties, AFSC or occupational series, rank
   or grade, organization and location, and the telephone number (commercial and DSN) and e-
   mail address of the command/organization administrative point of contact. The cover letter
   also includes a records check statement, which verifies that nothing can be revealed about the
   nominee that would bring discredit to the award or the United States Air Force.
   5.4. An Air Force-approved Public Release Statement (Attachment 6). This is optional for
   team nominations.
   5.5. Air Force-approved nominations are based on achievements occurring within the
   previous calendar year (1 January - 31 December). Submissions must be complete, properly
   prepared/staffed, and endorsed by the Center Commander or designated representative in
   order to be accepted.
   5.6. Negative replies are required. Withdrawal of nominations is allowed both prior and
   subsequent to the nomination due date.
   5.7. A call for nominations will be sent annually no later than 1 December. Nominations
   should be submitted by the announced due date with an award determination by 15 January
   of the next year. The nomination call will be tracked using the appropriate command
   tracking system (i.e., Senior Officer Communication and Coordination Electronic Resource
   (SOCCER)).
   5.8. HQ AFMC and Centers will send nominations electronically to AFMC/A2/A5 &
   AFLCMC/WF Workflow by the announced due date.           Incomplete or inaccurate
   documentation will be returned.
6. Selection Procedure. The AFMC International Award Board selects award recipients based
upon established selection criteria. The methodology will encompass a scoring process with a
point system and weighting factors for each part of the nomination package (Improvements to
Management of Programs and Processes, Initiation of New Programs, Service to International
 6                                                        AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


Partners, and Efficient Use of Resources). The International Award Board will determine the
sole winner out of all the International Awards winners in any given year for consideration for
the SAF/IA Excellence Award by selecting the nominee with the highest score.
     6.1. There is a possibility that no award may be given in any category for that calendar year.
     6.2. Individual award recipients (no team awards) will be eligible for nomination for the
     SAF/IA Excellence Award.
7. International Award Board. The AFLCMC/WF FMS Enterprise Planning & Requirements
Division Chief chairs the International Award Board for all awards. The other International
Award Board members are made up of equivalent grade civilian and military personnel from HQ
AFMC and AFMC Centers that are requested by the Chair to serve as part of the selection board.
     7.1. The International Award Board should consist of three members outside the Security
     Assistance or Armaments Cooperation communities.
     7.2. The International Award Board secretariat is AFLCMC/WFN .
8. Awards Presentation:
     8.1. A Certificate of Achievement and a Congratulatory letter signed by the AFMC
     Commander. A trophy or plaque will be awarded to the selected winner/team of each award
     category dependent on funds availability.
     8.2. AFLCMC/WF will provide the Certificate of Achievement and the trophy or plaque to
     the Center Commanders or HQ AFMC Directors for presentation to the respective winners.
     Winners should be announced publicly through local and base-related media.
9. AFMC International Award (as it relates to the SAF/IA Excellence Award):
     9.1. The AFMC International Award nominee who scores the highest among all participants
     within the four individual categories of security assistance and armaments cooperation earns
     the opportunity to compete in the Air Force Level for the SAF/IA Excellence Award. A
     separate package will be created for this award in order to endorse the top AFMC
     International Award winner and to include them in the SAF/IA Excellence Award.




                                              DR. TODD A. FORE, SES
                                              Director, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                      7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI36-2871, Air Force International Affairs Excellence Award, 04 September 2012.
AFI36-1004, The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, 03 December 2009.
AFI36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001.
AF165-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012.
Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) Manual 5105-38-M, Security Assistance
Management Manual (SAMM).
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.
                                                         Attachment 2
                                                INTERNATIONAL AWARDS

Table A2.1. International Awards
 A               B                                     C                D                                      E
 Name of                                               Who is           Nominations
 Award           Eligibility Criteria                  Eligible         Submit By            Submit To         Award Presentation
 Armaments       Actions resulting in improved         All military     Centers may          Electronically    All awards are
 Cooperation     management of programs or             and civilian     nominate two         to                presented each year
 Individual      processes, initiation of programs,    personnel:       persons              AFMC/A2/A5        at an appropriate
                 service to partners, and more                          (supervisory and     &                 ceremony.
 Armaments       efficient use of resources:          Supervisory       non-supervisory)     AFLCMC/WF
 Cooperation                                          and non-          for each category,   Workflow by       A certificate of
 Team            a. Armaments Cooperation:            supervisory       as well as two       the date stated   achievement and a
                 Unique program or system             personnel in      teams for each       in the annual     trophy/plaque are
 Security        changes that enhance                 each category     team category.       announcement      presented to each
 Assistance      standardization or interoperability and teams in                            letter.           winner; team will
 Individual      with allies and facilities.          each category                                            receive one
                 (1) Incentives for allied investment (Armaments                                               plaque/trophy.
                 in conventional military             Cooperation
                 equipment.                           and Security
                 (2) Economies of scale by            Assistance).
 Security        coordinated research development,
 Assistance      production, and logistics support
 Team            programs.
                 (3) Mutual access to the best
                 technology developed by the US
                 and/or our allies to avoid
                 duplication of effort.

                 b. Security Assistance:
                 Exceptional actions relating to the
AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                       9


              execution of FMS programs and
              systems, cooperative programs, or
              support of articles sold through an
              international program.
                                          Attachment 3
                                   SAMPLE AF FORM 1206

Figure A3.1. Sample AF Form 1206
AWARD                                                       Category           Award Period
AFMC International Award            Non-Supervisory         Armaments Coop     1 Jan – 31 Dec 13
Rank/Name of Nominee (First, Middle Initial, Last)          SSN (last 4)       MAJCOM
GS-12, John Doe NMI                                         1234               AFMC
DAFSC/Duty Title                                            Nominee's Telephone (DSN &
                                                            Commercial)
Technical Program Manager
                                                            0000-000-0000 DSN: 000-0000
Unit/Office Symbol/Street Address/Base/State/Zip Code
AFMC/AFLCMC/WFN/123 Anywhere Lane/ANY BASE/OH/45433
Rank/Name of Unit Commander (First, Middle Initial, Last)/Commander's Telephone (DSN &
Commercial)
Lt Col Sam A. Jones, DSN 000-0000 & 000-000-0000
SPECIFIC ACCOMPLISHMENTS (Use single-spaced, bullet format)
IMPROVEMENTS TO MANAGEMENT OF PROGRAMS AND PROCESSES:
This field is to focus on the improvements to management of a program or a process

INITIATION OF NEW PROGRAMS
This field is to focus on the initiation of a new program

SERVICE TO INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS
This field is used to focus on customer service improvements

EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES
This field is used to focus on the efficient use of resources

Also include in this form the name, office and phone number of the nominee’s immediate supervisor
and/or person responsible for the nomination. This may be done on separate sheet of paper is space is
limited

Acronyms used: Please spell out award specific acronyms on the next page.
AF FORM 1206, 20120926                 Previous editions are obsolete FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY (When
filled in)
AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                11


                                        Attachment 4
                                    SAMPLE CITATION

Figure A4.1. Sample Citation
CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE PRESENTATION OF THE
(NAME OF THE AWARD)

TO

(FIRST NAME, MIDDLE INITIAL, LAST NAME OR TEAM NAME)

(Person’s/Team’s name) has distinguished himself/herself/itself by excelling in the performance
of his/her/its duties while assigned at the (location) from (January 1, 20xx to December 31,
20xx). (Briefly describe the achievements; 50 words or less, don’t exceed three sentences.) The
distinctive accomplishments of (person’s/ team’s name) reflect great credit upon
himself/herself/itself and the International Community, and the United States Air Force.
 12                                                       AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                           Attachment 5
                                  SAMPLE COVER LETTER

Figure A5.1. Sample Cover Letter
FROM: Enter Organization
      Enter Organization Address Line 1
      Enter Organization Address Line 2

TO: HQ AFMC/A2/A5
    4375 Chidlaw Road
    Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433

      SAF/IAGR
      1080 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330-1080

SUBJECT: (Enter Year of the Award) AFMC International Award and (Enter Year of the
         Award) USAF International Affairs (IA) Excellence Award Nominee
I nominate, (Enter Applicant Name), as the (Enter Organization) nominee for the (Enter Year of
the Award) AFMC International Award and endorse, (Enter Applicant Name), to compete for the
(Enter Year of the Award) USAF IA Excellence Award if selected.

Enter Applicant Rank/Grade

Enter Applicant AFSC or Occupational Series

Enter Applicant Position Title

Write a brief description of applicant’s position duties and responsibilities

My point of contact is (Enter Command Administrative POC Name) at (Enter Commercial and
DSN Phone Number, E-mail): (enter e-mail address).

A records check was conducted on (date) and revealed no information that would bring discredit
to the award or the United States Air Force.



                                                          Center CC/CV/CA
                                                          Enter Signature Block Line 2
                                                          Enter Signature Block Line 3
AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                         13


                                    Attachment 6
                     SAMPLE PUBLIC RELEASE STATEMENT

Figure A6.1. Sample Public Release Statement
PUBLIC RELEASE STATEMENT

I, (ENTER APPLICANT’S NAME), DO/DO NOT (CIRCLE ONE LINE THROUGH THE
OTHER) AGREE TO THE USE OF PRIVACY ACT INFORMATION IN THE
NOMINATION. THIS INFORMATION MAY INCLUDE PRIVACY ACT INFORMATION
OR PERSONALLY IDENTIFYING INFORMATION (PII) FOUND IN AFI 33-332, PRIVACY
ACT PROGRAM, CHAPTER 12, DISCLOSING RECORDS TO THIRD PARTIES. I
UNDERSTAND THOSE TRANSMITTING PERSONAL INFORMATION WILL EXERCISE
CAUTION AND ADEQUATELY SAFEGUARD IT IAW AFI 33-332, PARAGRAPH 7.3.,
AND PARAGRAPHS 10.2.1 & 10.2.2. THE ANNOUNCEMENT MESSAGE OR ANY
PUBLICITY REGARDING THE AWARD NOMINATION WILL CONTAIN NO PRIVACY
ACT INFORMATION OTHER THAN NAME, RANK, AND BASE OF ASSIGNMENT.



__________________________      __________
SIGNATURE                       DATE
 14                                                       AFMCI36-2801 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                          Attachment 7
                      SAMPLE TEAM AWARD PARTICIPANT LIST

Figure A7.1. Sample Team Award Participant List
(Team Name)

For Commendable Service in the field of
(Armament Cooperation) or (Security Assistance)
1 January – 31 December 20XX


                             Name                             Organization

                       (Team Lead)                            Office symbol
                  (Ex.) Mr. John Smith                        AFLCMC/WF

1.     Put Military first and then civilians, if necessary (highest rank to lowest)
2.     Keep Names organized by office symbols
3.     If possible, alphabetize the names
