BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AFMC INSTRUCTION 21-102
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                              29 JANUARY 2002
                                                                          Certified Current, 19 January 2011
                                                                                              Maintenance

                                                             ANALYTICAL CONDITION INSPECTION
                                                                               (ACI)PROGRAMS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/ENPM (Mr. Scott McLennan) Certified by: HQ AFMC/ENP (Mr. Allen Gotwald)
Supersedes AFMCI 21-102, 5 Aug 94                                            Pages: 6
                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It provides guid-
ance and procedures for establishing and monitoring ACI programs for aerospace equipment.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This adds guidance for ACI programs dealing with commercial aircraft, UAVs and long-term test assets.


1. Purpose. ACI programs reveal defects that may not otherwise be detected through normal technical
order and programmed depot maintenance (PDM) inspections. They provide data for engineering and
technical evaluations of the relative condition of the total mission, design and series (MDS) aircraft force.
Data generated through ACIs is used to refine mandatory aircraft inspection programs (field and depot).

2. Terms. Terms used in this instruction are listed in Attachment 1.

3. Procedures. Any item or area deemed applicable by the system program director (SPD) may be
included in an ACI program. ACI programs do not cover all areas of aircraft and systems every year;
rather, the inspection and evaluation process is continuous to ensure airworthiness.
   3.1. Results from the Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP), failure data, and material defi-
   ciency and accident or incident reports will be the primary sources for determining which items or
   areas require inspection and evaluation on an annual basis. Also, highly stressed areas, ASIP identi-
   fied critical points, and areas subject to corrosion, such as wheel wells, surface controls, bomb bays,
   and lower wing surfaces, will be carefully screened for inclusion in an annual ACI program.
   3.2. Areas such as subsystems or secondary structures are scheduled for inspection and evaluation
   using a phased ACI approach. For example, fuel systems and life support systems may be inspected
   and evaluated 1 year, flight controls and hydraulic systems the next year, and avionics and secondary
   structures the third year.
2                                                                    AFMCI21-102 29 JANUARY 2002


    3.3. ACI data will be used to determine the condition of the remaining MDS force. When necessary,
    additional data can be gathered by:
       3.3.1. Sampling additional aircraft in for PDM.
       3.3.2. Initiating field level inspections.
       3.3.3. Evaluating existing assets in supply.
       3.3.4. Accomplishing further engineering analysis.
    3.4. The ACI program will be accomplished concurrently with modification and PDM program
    requirements.

4. Initiating ACI Programs. The SPD will determine when an ACI program should be initiated and will
maintain the technical data used to support the decision. As general guidance for trainer or fighter type
aerospace systems, consideration should be given to initiating an ACI program when four or more aircraft
have been in the operational inventory for 3 years or have attained 1,000 flight hours of service and for
bomber, cargo or tanker type aerospace systems when four or more aircraft have been in the operational
inventory for 5 years or have attained 6,000 flight hours of service. For other types of systems such as
non-expendable UAVs or long-term test assets, an appropriately tailored ACI program should be consid-
ered. ACI programs are generally not required for commercial aircraft maintained under FAA require-
ments. Deviations to this general guidance will be technically justified by the SPD.
    4.1. The SPD will prepare a proposed ACI program for review by the air logistics center (ALC) and
    major command (MAJCOM) Maintenance Requirements Review Boards (MRRB). The program will
    be prepared for each MDS of aircraft. Where there are significant differences in design or use, each
    series of aircraft will be treated as a separate grouping for gathering condition data. Of the various
    possible strata of an MDS (aircraft configuration, calendar age, mission, operational environment, fly-
    ing hours, etc.), normally the most severe stratum is selected for the collection of basic ACI data, with
    discrete tasks for suspect or critical areas added from other strata to the basic data package. Consider-
    ation should be given to including in ACI programs those aircraft being used in Controlled Interval
    Extension programs. ACI groups may vary by aerospace system based on peculiarities within the par-
    ticular series, historical data, and differences in PDM cycles.
    4.2. The SPD determines ACI groupings and quantities for review and approval by the ALC and
    MAJCOM MRRBs. ACI data is accrued within the approved fiscal year program. The MAJCOM
    MRRB is the authority for extensions to the approved ACI program.
    4.3. ACI programs should be considered for reduction or termination if it is determined that adequate
    access to areas of the aircraft is provided through planned depot level repairs or modifications. ACI
    programs for systems with established retirement dates should be ended as soon as practical.

5. ACI Sampling Plans. The SPD will develop a sampling plan before the start of an ACI program. The
plan will address the problem for which the inspections are to be conducted and will include the follow-
ing:
    5.1. The inspection requirements and schedule (time and place).
    5.2. The sample size needed.
    5.3. A definition of the anticipated defect conditions.
AFMCI21-102 29 JANUARY 2002                                                                                  3


   5.4. Any assumptions made.
   5.5. A stratification of the force.
   5.6. A summary of what necessary actions are projected based on the anticipated ACI findings. The
   sampling plan will be documented and maintained for use with later ACI analyses for the same MDS
   aircraft. A summary of the ACI sampling plan is included in the PDM brochure, if one exists, for
   review by the ALC and MAJCOM MRRBs.

6. ACI Samples. Primary sampling isolates any defect that exists in 20 percent or more of the force at a
90 percent confidence level. The primary sample size in the figure below indicates the number of aircraft
to be sampled for various force sizes. It should be noted that for small force sizes (up to 36 aircraft) the
sample size was considered excessive to reach the 90 percent confidence level. As a result, an arbitrary
one quarter of the force was selected as a practical sample size. This reduces the confidence level for
small forces to as low as 53 percent. Tasks related to highly suspect/critical areas should be sampled at the
90 percent confidence level. Tasks related to highly suspect/critical areas should not be ACI sampled
when the fleet size is 36 aircraft or less. These tasks should be handled as special inspections that provide
a higher confidence level.
   6.1. The figure below is based on locating at least one defect, if that defect exists in at least 20 percent
   of the force. It is possible to isolate a single find defect, i.e., one that does not exist elsewhere in the
   force. To rule out single find defects, a secondary sample (for the specific item) must be taken. The
   secondary sample size column indicates the additional samples that must be taken without finding
   another defect, to be 90 percent confident that the defect existence is below a 20 percent prevalence
   level. If, however, these additional samples reveal another defect, it can be assumed the defect exists
   in 20 percent or more of the force. For example, if a major or critical defect (defined at paragraphs
   8.1.2. and 8.1.3.) is found in a primary sample of 11 aircraft, an additional 13 aircraft will be inspected
   for a total of 24 aircraft.
   6.2. The sample size and selection criteria specified do not constitute a statistically valid sample of
   the MDS population according to statistical probability theory. They do, however, provide the most
   practical sampling of the worst case aircraft to provide the SPD an early indication of the force airwor-
   thiness and enable the determination of the need for additional maintenance requirements or modifica-
   tions.
   6.3. The selection of ACI sample aircraft will be finalized by coordination with the using command
   or commands.


             Force Size                  Primary Sample             Secondary Sample
             1-36                        25% of force               Additional 25% of force
             37-199                      10                         13
             200+                        11                         13

7. ACI Work Specifications. ACI work specifications will be designed to identify hidden defects, dete-
riorating conditions, corrosion, fatigue, overstress and other deficiencies in the aircraft structure or sys-
tems. Work specifications are divided into annual and phase tasks.
   7.1. Annual tasks in the work specification will commence with 0001 and continue to 2000.
4                                                                     AFMCI21-102 29 JANUARY 2002


    7.2. Phased tasks in the work specification will start at 2001 and continue as necessary.
    7.3. New tasks in the work specification will be indicated by a marginal bar.
    7.4. For ACI tasks no longer required, the identification number and title will be retained on the work
    specification master list. The last year of accomplishment will be indicated as well as its disposition,
    e.g., moved to PDM, deleted, added to -6 technical order, etc.
    7.5. On the work specification master list, the page on which the task is illustrated will be listed.

8. ACI Reporting. The SPD will specify the format in which ACI results will be documented to ensure
the engineering activity is provided a basis for review and evaluation.
    8.1. When a defect is found during an ACI, the performing activity will initially classify the defect
    using one of the three following categories:
       8.1.1. Minor defect. A defect that is not likely to reduce materially the useability of the aircraft for
       its intended purpose.
       8.1.2. Major defect. A defect other than critical that is likely to result in failure or to reduce mate-
       rially the useability of the aircraft for its intended purpose.
       8.1.3. Critical defect. A defect that is likely to result in unsafe conditions for persons using, main-
       taining or depending on the aircraft, or will prevent performance of the tactical function of the air-
       craft.
       8.1.4. The SPD will establish procedures to ensure the priority reporting of those defects identi-
       fied as major or critical.

9. Responsibilities. This instruction assigns the following responsibilities:
    9.1. MAJCOM MRRB:
       9.1.1. Exercises surveillance over ACI programs.
       9.1.2. Reviews annually (as part of the PDM program review, if one exists) proposed ACI pro-
       grams and the results of existing ACI programs.
       9.1.3. Approves extensions to existing ACI programs.
    9.2. ALC MRRB. Reviews annually (as part of the PDM program review, if it exists) proposed ACI
    programs and the results of existing ACI programs.
    9.3. SPD:
       9.3.1. Sets up and monitors required ACI programs for assigned aircraft.
       9.3.2. Determines ACI program requirements and develops the ACI sampling plans for assigned
       aerospace systems.
       9.3.3. Encourages the using commands to participate in the ACI program by requesting their rec-
       ommendations on ACI program requirements.
       9.3.4. Establishes ACI program requirements as early as possible in each fiscal year to facilitate
       program approval and implementation.
       9.3.5. Prepares work specifications for the accomplishment of ACI requirements.
AFMCI21-102 29 JANUARY 2002                                                                             5


       9.3.6. Formulates the proposed ACI program and submits for ALC and MAJCOM MRRB review
       (as an integral part of the PDM program package, if it exists).
       9.3.7. Summarizes results of ACI programs and submits for ALC and MAJCOM MRRB review
       (as an integral part of the PDM package if one exists).
       9.3.8. Analyzes ACI data and correlates with data from PDM, field reports, material deficiencies,
       accident reports and incident reports to resolve the findings.
       9.3.9. Makes adjustments to technical order inspection requirements as required by analysis of
       ACI data.
       9.3.10. Participates to the extent feasible in ACI inspections when deficiencies are found that are
       considered critical.
       9.3.11. Specifies the format in which ACI results will be documented and establishes procedures
       to ensure the priority reporting of those defects identified as major or critical.
       9.3.12. Solicits inputs from the aircraft corrosion and ASIP managers regarding ACI require-
       ments.
       9.3.13. Coordinates inspection techniques for ASIP critical points with the ASIP Manager.
       9.3.14. Coordinates corrosion detection, correction and prevention techniques with the corrosion
       manager.
       9.3.15. Provides corrosion and ASIP Managers with ACI program results.
   9.4. Source of Repair (Organic or Contract):
       9.4.1. Accomplishes ACIs on aircraft as programmed by the SPD.
       9.4.2. Reports ACI results according to the format and process set up by the SPD.

10. Interface With Other Programs. ACI type reports of PDM inspections conducted on CIE and base-
line PDM aircraft will provide data for analysis under the CIE program. Consideration should be given to
combining ACI, PDM and CIE programs on the same aircraft.



                                                    CHARLES CZARNIECKI, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Chief, Systems Engineering Policy Division
6                                                                    AFMCI21-102 29 JANUARY 2002


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP)—A time-phased set of required actions performed at the
optimum time during the lifecycle (design through phase-out) of an aircraft system to ensure the structural
integrity (strength, rigidity, damage tolerance, durability and service life capability) of the aircraft.
Analytical Condition Inspection (ACI)—The systematic disassembly and inspection of a representative
sample of aircraft to find hidden defects, deteriorating conditions, corrosion, fatigue, overstress and other
deficiencies in the aircraft structure or systems. ACIs are normally over and above those inspections
specified in the technical order or PDM work specifications.
Controlled Interval Extension (CIE)—The controlled extension of a PDM interval based on condition
analyses of a representative sample of aircraft.
Maintenance Requirements Review Board (MRRB)—A panel that assures all valid depot level
maintenance requirements are evaluated and scheduled for appropriate fiscal year accomplishment. The
process for the assurance involves an annual on-site review of the proposed maintenance program for
each weapon system to assess the depot interval, the time in depot (flow days), and the validity of each
detailed task in the work package. The panel is comprised of using command representatives and AFMC
engineering, funding and aircraft maintenance experts. Changes to an approved maintenance program
must be submitted with complete justification to the MRRB prior to incorporation in the work package
and submission for funding. MRRBs are convened at the ALC and MAJCOM levels.
Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM)—Depot level inspections and maintenance scheduled on a
cyclic basis.
