BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                         INSTRUCTION 90-601

                                                                               11 MARCH 2014

                                                                          Specialty Management

                                                           AFMC CORPORATE STRUCTURE


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A8P                                                    Certified by: HQ AFMC/A8P
                                                                              (Robert C. Sudduth)
                                                                                        Pages: 11
Supersedes:    AFMCI90-601,
               6 February 2009


This instruction implements AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15
August 2006. This instruction provides detailed operating procedures for the AFMC Corporate
Structure (AFMC CS). It does not apply to the Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard. The
AFMC CS is comprised of the AFMC Resource Management Panels, AFMC Group, AFMC
Board, AFMC Council and Commander (CC) Executive Session. Duties and responsibilities of
the chairs, members and secretariat are described within. This publication may be supplemented
at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) of this publication for coordination before certification and approval. Send comments and
suggestions about this publication for improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, to the OPR. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command
to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority or, alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-
tiered compliance items. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-360,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the new AFMC Board level and membership within the AFMC CS, appointment of new
AFMC panel chairs, panel membership, and roles and responsibilities of AFMC panels.
 2                                                            AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014


1. Role of AFMC Corporate Structure.
     1.1. The primary objective of the AFMC CS is to provide the AFMC Commander, HQ
     directors and center commanders with capability to review Command-wide issues from an
     enterprise perspective and maximize effectiveness of AFMC’s decision making. The AFMC
     CS facilitates the transition of strategic guidance issuance and understanding to resource
     decision-making from a functional requirements view to a corporate AFMC-framed,
     capabilities-focused process.
     1.2. The AFMC CS ensures supporting and dissenting opinions for all major decisions are
     captured to enable senior Command leadership to make informed decisions. Members
     represent their particular functional areas, but are also required to use Command-wide vs
     functional perspectives to make optimal enterprise decisions. Full participation is expected
     of all AFMC Group, Board and Council members.
     1.3. The AFMC CS is not intended to replace the AFMC crisis management processes and
     procedures governed by AFMCI 10-105, “Crisis Command and Control”, and AFMC
     Operating Instruction 10-1 for Crisis Action Team (CAT)/Battlestaff activation.
     1.4. Goals of the AFMC CS process.
        1.4.1. Provides a multifunctional, cross-staff/cross-center perspective on all key AFMC
        programs and ensures cross-center dependencies are addressed in order to cut across
        organizational barriers to improve the enterprise decision-making process and enhance
        responsiveness to the AFMC Strategic Plan and Air Force guidance.
        1.4.2. Develops an enterprise position for submission to AFMC/CC for review, vector,
        and/or approval prior to implementation and/or submission to higher headquarters.
        1.4.3. Enables the AFMC Strategic Vision through consistent development of positions
        to support the AFMC Strategic Plan within planning, programming, budgeting and
        execution (PPBE) activities.
        1.4.4. Supports requirements alignment to AFMC and Air Force priorities.
        1.4.5. Assesses Command performance through strategic metrics.
     1.5. Figure 1 depicts the relationships between the various AFMC CS bodies. AFMC
     Resource Management Panels (hereinafter called panels) are used for management and
     resource decisions within their respective areas within the PPBE process. HQ AFMC/A1,
     A2/5, A8/9 and FM are the Command integrators for resourcing manpower and funding
     issues. The AFMC Group is the first level of the review process taking an enterprise view of
     the issue (PPBE or non-PPBE issue). The Group Chair will make a recommendation for
     issue progression to the AFMC Board and/or AFMC Council. The AFMC Board is the
     intermediate decision-making body within the AFMC CS. The AFMC Council is chaired by
     AFMC/CC and is the senior decision-making body in the AFMC CS. The CC Executive
     Session is a closed forum for AFMC/CC to meet with Center Commanders only.
AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014                                                                    3


Figure 1. AFMC Corporate Structure




2. How the Corporate Process works. Issues, recommendations or initiatives with AFMC-
wide implications will be brought through the AFMC CS. For PPBE issues, the Panel Chair is
responsible for ensuring all internal AFMC coordination/staffing has been accomplished prior to
presentation to the AFMC Group. The Panel Chair is the advocate for that issue or decision to
the Group. All issue owners/advocates (any topic) will also ensure prior coordination with all
AFMC stakeholders.
3. Corporate Process Structure Authority and Responsibilities.
   3.1. AFMC Panels, Centers and HQ 2-Ltrs.
       3.1.1. AFMC panels are the foundation to PPBE discussions in the AFMC CS. They
       make management and resource decisions within the panels’ authority and develop and
       advocate for management and resource issues within their respective areas for AFMC CS
       coordination and decision. AFMC/CC expects each panel chair to provide full support
       and participation.
       3.1.2. The AFMC CS includes eight panels which are listed in Table 1. Each panel is
       assigned to a center commander or HQ 2-Ltr director chair and a functional advisor as
       depicted below.
 4                                                             AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014


Table 1. Panel Chair Assignment
AFMC Panel                  Panel Chair                    Functional Advisor
Capabilities Integration    AFLCMC/CC                      HQ AFMC/A2/5
Sustainment                 AFSC/CC                        HQ AFMC/A4
Test                        AFTC/CC                        HQ AFMC/A3
Research                    AFRL/CC                        HQ AFMC/A2/5
Nuclear                     AFNWC/CC                       HQ AFMC/A10
Mission Support             HQ AFMC/A6/7 Director          HQ AFMC/A1/FM
Headquarters                HQ AFMC/DS Director            HQ AFMC/FM
Enterprise Support          HQ AFMC/A4 Director            HQ AFMC/FM

       3.1.3. Panel Team Membership: Each panel will have a chair, functional advisor and
       other voting and non-voting members described below. Voting members are the
       requirements owners. Non-voting members are representatives from each of the other
       panels, HQ AFMC/A1, A2/5, A8/9, FM, the functional advisor for the panel, and other
       HQ 2-Ltr representatives as required. Panels will be established using existing resources,
       and size may vary by panel.
       3.1.4. Panel portfolios are determined by Program Element Code (PEC) identification as
       assigned by HQ AFMC/A8P and validated by the panels annually.
       3.1.5. Panel Chair roles and responsibilities.
           3.1.5.1. The panel chair will allocate resources from an enterprise perspective
           consistent with the priorities of the AF and Command. Additionally, a panel chair
           will support Air Staff Program Element Monitor (PEM) Parades, advocate for panel
           resources, be the subject matter expert (SME) for requirements and support
           AFMC/CC prep.
           3.1.5.2. The panel chair (Table 1) may delegate the panel chair responsibility (not
           lower than O-6/GS-15 equivalent) for their respective panel. The panel chair will
           establish the organization of the panel, maintain a panel membership list, govern the
           degree of decision authority of the internal panel staff, determine the level of resource
           allocation, and stay involved with pay (manpower) and non-pay funding resource
           decisions throughout the PPBE process. Panel chairs are the primary advocates for
           their PEs, addressing issues and coordinating functional concerns across all centers
           and HQ staff.
           3.1.5.3. Panel chairs will appoint panel members necessary to complete assessments
           and deliberations for the PPBE processes and arming AFMC/A8/FM to represent the
           Command in various forums, including Program Objective Memorandum (POM)
           deliberations, Investment Budget Review Committee (IBRC), and Operating Budget
           Review Committee (OBRC).
AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014                                                                      5


        3.1.5.4. Panel chairs will hold meetings for their respective panel, inviting all
        members and advisors, to discuss PPBE exercises/activities.
        3.1.5.5. Panel chairs will submit consolidated and prioritized panel submissions in
        response to HQ AFMC PPBE exercises/activities based upon consensus of the panel
        members and approval of the panel chair.
        3.1.5.6. Panel chairs will keep their upper management apprised of issues that will be
        presented through the AFMC CS.
        3.1.5.7. A panel chair may hold panel meetings focused on a specific topic/PEC and
        invite only those members with a vested interest in those specific resources.
     3.1.6. Panel voting and non-voting members roles and responsibilities.
        3.1.6.1. Panel voting members will include the requirements owners (representatives
        from all Centers/HQ 2-Ltrs with requirements captured within PECs identified under
        that Panel). Voting members will identify the program requirements (manpower and
        non-pay). Once all requirements are identified, the voting members will advocate
        (describe the program, convey risks if not fully resourced and identify mitigating
        strategies) for resources to support their requirements, support the Panel prioritization
        process and identify disconnects, initiatives, and/or offsets for the Panel Chair.
        Decisions are made through majority vote from all Panel voting members. Panel
        recommendations proceeding to the AFMC Group, Board and Council must be
        approved by the Panel Chair.
        3.1.6.2. Panel non-voting members include representatives from each of the other
        panels, AFMC/A1 (pay/manpower issues), AFMC/A2/5, AFMC/A8/9, AFMC/FM
        (non-pay issues) and other HQ 2-Ltrs as appropriate (those that are not requirements
        owners).
        3.1.6.3. Panel non-voting members will serve as SMEs. They will advocate for panel
        resources, ensure a command-wide focus is maintained, mitigate stovepipe thinking
        and facilitate increased communication and collaboration.
     3.1.7. Integrators. HQ AFMC/A1, A2/5, A8/9, and FM integrate PPBE requirements
     from the panels.
        3.1.7.1. HQ AFMC/A1 collects, validates and integrates AFMC manpower
        requirements.
        3.1.7.2. HQ AFMC/A2/5 collects (in collaboration with A8/9) both AFMC planning
        and programming requirements.
        3.1.7.3. HQ AFMC/A8/9 integrates and prioritizes requirements for Planning and
        Programming processes.
        3.1.7.4. HQ AFMC/FMA integrates and prioritizes requirements for Budget and
        Execution processes.
     3.1.8. AFMC Center/HQ 2-Ltr roles and responsibilities.            Submit Center/2-Ltr
     requirements into PPBE process as determined by process owner (e.g., HQ AFMC/A8/9
     for programming and FM for execution year exercises), participate in Panel meetings as a
     member of applicable Panel(s) and provide SME support to Panel Chair. Designate
6                                                            AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014


       Center/HQ 2-Ltr focal point for all AFMC Group meetings responsible for notifying
       appropriate (topic dependent) SMEs within the center/HQ 2-Ltr to participate in Group
       meetings. HQ 2-Ltrs are a conduit between HAF and Panels/Centers.
       3.1.9. PPBE communications, questions or taskings must be tasked through the AFMC
       panel chair (e.g. funds distribution, execution plans, POM) to ensure the panel chair
       maintains situational awareness of issues regarding programs in their portfolio. For any
       quick-turn suspense, it is acceptable to task the SME directly and courtesy copy (cc) the
       panel chair on the initial tasking and response from the SME.
    3.2. AFMC Group.
       3.2.1. Responsibilities. The AFMC Group discusses and integrates issues for the AFMC
       Council and if appropriate, serves as the decision making authority. The AFMC Group
       vets major issues requiring a corporate decision. The Group considers all inputs when
       developing options. The Group Chair will recommend forwarding an issue to the AFMC
       Board and/or Council, based on issue impact and maturity. Dissenting opinions will be
       recorded in the minutes.
       3.2.2. Membership. HQ AFMC/A8/9 Deputy Director will chair a standing weekly
       Group meeting for all Group topics with the exception of budget formulation and
       execution, including O&M Execution Plan, Initial Distribution, Mid-year Review, and
       EOY Close-out (chaired by HQ AFMC/FMA), and IT and CIO topics (chaired by AFMC
       CIO). The other members of the AFMC Group are HQ directorate deputies or O-6/GS-
       15 equivalent (HQ AFMC/A1, A2/5, A3, A4, A6/7, A8/9, A10, DS, EN, FM, HC, HO,
       IG, IP, JA, PA, PK, SB, SE, and SG), Center representatives, Guard Advisor (CG) and
       Reserve Advisor (CR). Panel chairs will serve as non-voting advisors to the Group,
       unless the panel chairs are also the HQ 2 Ltr or Center Representative member of the
       AFMC Group. Members will ensure appropriate SMEs are present.
       3.2.3. Administration.     HQ AFMC/A8P is the Group secretariat and will assist in
       scheduling meetings, preparing agendas, submitting prep packages, recording attendance,
       reviewing minutes, tracking action items, and communicating AFMC Group activity.
       HQ AFMC/A8P maintains an AFMC Group website (send email to AFMC/A8PR
       Workflow for link and access). Group topics must be submitted to HQ AFMC/A8P at
       least one week in advance of meeting using the meeting request format (online or request
       format from Group secretariat). If an emergency meeting is needed, HQ AFMC/A8P will
       schedule an out-of-cycle Group meeting. Read-aheads are due to the secretariat two days
       prior to the scheduled Group meeting. The Group secretariat will post the read-aheads
       and send the link to Group members. The Group topic presenter will (in this order)
       develop the minutes, record any dissenting opinions, obtain their Group member
       approval, finalize and forward minutes to the Group secretariat within three workdays
       from the date of the meeting in the designated format (found on the AFMC Action
       Officers [AO] website). The AFMC Group chair will approve final minutes, and the
       Group secretariat will post online.
       3.2.4. Approval. The AFMC Group must reach consensus (majority vote) and document
       specific recommendations before proceeding to the AFMC Board and/or Council. The
       Group Chair retains final recommendation authority for issues brought to the AFMC
       Group for resolution and determination of topic progression to the AFMC Board and/or
AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014                                                                   7


     AFMC Council. Contentious topics may require multiple Group discussions prior to a
     Board/Council meeting. Dissenting views will be presented through the dissenter’s
     representative at the Board/Council meeting.
     3.2.5. Frequency and location. The AFMC Group will meet weekly, unless otherwise
     notified by the Group secretariat. Time and location of each meeting will be posted
     online.
     3.2.6. Electronic Announcements. Notification of meetings, agendas, briefings and other
     AFMC Group communication activity will be distributed electronically. Briefings and
     minutes will be posted online as appropriate.
     3.2.7. E-Group. This is an electronic alternative to a traditional Group meeting designed
     to address issues ready for approval while saving senior leadership’s time. An e-Group
     should be used only for routine, non-controversial issues or briefings for “Information
     Only.” The topic presenter will prepare an e-SSS for their 2-Ltr Director or panel chair
     signature to all the Group members for approval of a proposed issue. The e-SSS gives
     Group members the opportunity to review the issue and either approve release for
     coordination or remand to the AFMC Group for more discussion, etc. Group members
     will be tasked within the Command suspense tracking system.
  3.3. AFMC Board.
     3.3.1. Responsibilities. The AFMC Board serves as the intermediate review and/or
     decision-making body between the AFMC Group and AFMC Council. The AFMC
     Board is a Director/Center CV/CA level forum for cross-functional review and evaluation
     of AFMC issues within the same broad categories as the AFMC Council. The AFMC
     Board should be used as required; issues may go directly from the AFMC Group to the
     AFMC Council based on the AFMC Group Chair’s recommendation and approval by the
     AFMC Board Chair.
     3.3.2. Membership. AFMC/CV chairs the AFMC Board, but may delegate to
     AFMC/CA, HQ AFMC/A8/9 Director or HQ AFMC/FM Director, based on topic.
     Members of the AFMC Board are the HQ Directors (HQ AFMC/A1, A2/5, A3, A4,
     A6/7, A8/9, A10, DS, EN, FM, IG, IP, HC, HO, IP, JA, PA, PK, SB, SE and SG), Center
     CVs or CAs and National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) Director.
     The AFMC Board will include the Center CVs and NMUSAF unless otherwise
     determined by the Board Chair.
     3.3.3. Administration. The Commander’s Action Group (HQ AFMC/CCX) is the
     secretariat for the AFMC Board. The Board secretariat will schedule meetings, develop
     agendas, advise issue OPRs of prep packages and read-ahead requirements, provide read-
     aheads to AFMC Board members, record attendance, arrange for Center participation, if
     required, and review minutes. HQ AFMC/CCX will track action items in the Command
     suspense tracking system and ensure issues presented to the Board are fully vetted and
     prepared according to AFMC/CC direction. Each Board briefer will submit the
     presentation topic one week before the scheduled meeting and provide read-ahead
     materials by 1200 hours two days prior to the scheduled Board. The Board briefer will
     record the minutes and action items during the meeting and forward minutes to HQ
     AFMC/CCX. All minutes approved by the Chair must be in the designated format
8                                                            AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014


       (found on the AFMC AO website), approved by the briefer’s Board member, and
       submitted to AFMC/CV within five working days after the Board meeting. The briefer
       will work with HQ AFMC/CCX to ensure proper distribution of action items.
       3.3.4. Approval. The Chair retains final decision authority for all issues brought to the
       Board for resolution. All attendees and meeting minutes are subject to approval by the
       Chair.
       3.3.5. Frequency and location. The AFMC Board will convene on an as needed basis via
       VTC in the Situation Room, Building 262, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB).
       3.3.6. Presentations. Topics for the AFMC Board will be coordinated with HQ
       AFMC/CCX and approved by the AFMC Board Chair. HQ AFMC/CCX will distribute
       the approved agenda topics to the Board members. Guidelines and templates for
       briefings are available online. For presentations, the OPR will provide an Event Brief.
       AFMC Board briefer will provide an electronic copy of briefing to the Board secretariat
       by 1200 hours two days prior to the Board. The Board secretariat will make distribution
       to members in sufficient time for prior review.
       3.3.7. Electronic Announcements. The HQ AFMC/CCX will distribute notification of
       meetings, agendas, briefings and other AFMC Board communication activity. Briefings,
       event briefs and minutes will be posted online as appropriate.
       3.3.8. E-Board. This is an electronic alternative to a traditional Board meeting designed
       to address issues ready for approval while saving senior leadership’s time. An e-Board
       should be used only for routine, non-controversial issues brought forward from the
       Group. The issue OPR will prepare an e-SSS for AFMC/CV or CA signature to all the
       Board members for approval of a proposed routine, non-controversial issue. The e-SSS
       gives CV/CA the opportunity to review the issue and either approve release for
       coordination or remand to the AFMC Group/Board for additional coordination and
       refinement. Once CV/CA has signed the e-SSS, HQ AFMC/CCX will send it out for
       coordination. AFMC Board members approve the proposed topic and forward their
       response to HQ AFMC/CCX. HQ AFMC/CCX will provide the results, including any
       comments received during coordination, to AFMC/CV.
    3.4. AFMC Council.
       3.4.1. Responsibilities. The AFMC Council serves as the senior decision making body
       for the Command and makes corporate Command-wide strategic decisions, such as key
       decisions affecting strategic plans, programming, budgets and Command-wide policies.
       3.4.2. Membership.
          3.4.2.1. AFMC/CC chairs the AFMC Council (alternate chair: AFMC/CV or CA).
          The other members of the AFMC Council are the HQ Directors (HQ AFMC/A1,
          A2/5, A3, A4, A6/7, A8/9, A10, DS, EN, FM, IG, HC, HO, JA, PA, PK, SB, SE and
          SG, Guard Advisor (CG), Reserve Advisor (CR), the Command Chief Master
          Sergeant (CCC)), Center CCs and National Museum of the USAF (NMUSAF)
          Director. The AFMC Council will include the Center CCs and NMUSAF CL unless
          otherwise determined by the AFMC Council Chair.
AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014                                                                 9


     3.4.3. Administration. HQ AFMC/CCX is the secretariat for the AFMC Council and
     will schedule meetings, develop agendas, advise briefers of prep packages and read-
     ahead requirements, forward read-aheads to AFMC Council members, record
     attendance, arrange for Center participation, if required, and review minutes. HQ
     AFMC/CCX shall track action items as appropriate in the Command suspense tracking
     system and will ensure issues presented to the Council are fully vetted and prepared in
     accordance with AFMC/CC directions. Each briefer will submit the presentation topic
     one week before the scheduled meeting and provide read-ahead materials by 1200 hours
     on Tuesday prior to the scheduled Council. The Council briefer will record the minutes
     and action items during the meeting and forward the minutes to HQ AFMC/CCX. All
     minutes approved by the Chair must be in the designated format, approved by Council
     member of the briefer, and submitted to AFMC/CC within five working days after the
     Council meeting. The briefer will work with HQ AFMC/CCX to ensure proper
     distribution of action items to the appropriate Directorates.
     3.4.4. Approval. AFMC/CC retains final decision authority for all issues brought to the
     Council for resolution. All attendees and Council minutes are approved by the Chair.
     3.4.5. Frequency and location. The AFMC Council convenes at the direction of
     AFMC/CC, usually on Mondays via VTC in the Situation Room, Building 262, WPAFB.
     3.4.6. Presentations.    Topics for the AFMC Council will be coordinated with HQ
     AFMC/CCX and approved by the AFMC Council Chair. Guidelines and templates for
     briefings are available online. The Council briefer will provide all prep materials,
     including an Event Brief located on the AO website. AFMC Council briefer will provide
     briefing copies to the Council secretariat by 1200 hours on Tuesday prior to the
     scheduled Council. The Council secretariat will distribute materials to members two
     working days prior to allow for review.
     3.4.7. Electronic Announcements.       HQ AFMC/CCX will distribute notification of
     meetings, agendas, briefings and other AFMC Council communication activity.
     Briefings, Event Briefs and minutes will be posted online as appropriate.
     3.4.8. E-Council. This is an electronic alternative to a traditional Council meeting
     intended to address issues ready for approval while saving senior leadership’s time. An
     e-Council meeting should be used only for routine, non-controversial issues brought
     forward from the Group/Board. The Council briefer will prepare an e-SSS for each
     routine, non-controversial issue. The e-SSS gives CV/CA the opportunity to review the
     issue and either approve release for coordination or remand to the AFMC Board or Group
     for more discussion, etc. Once CV/CA has signed the e-SSS, HQ AFMC/CCX will send
     it out for coordination. AFMC Council members approve the proposed issues and
     forward their response to HQ AFMC/CCX. CCX will provide results to AFMC/CC
     including any comments received during coordination. If any Council member has issues
     that cannot be resolved in the e-Council, a regular Council meeting will be scheduled.
  3.5. CC Executive Session.
     3.5.1. Responsibilities. The CC Executive Session (CC ES) serves as a closed forum for
     CC to meet with Center CCs only. The CC ES is used only as required.
     3.5.2. Membership. AFMC/CC chairs the CC ES. The other members are Center CCs.
10                                                       AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014


     3.5.3. Administrative. HQ AFMC/CCX is the secretariat for the CC ES and will
     schedule meetings, develop agendas, advise Issue OPRs of prep packages and read-ahead
     requirements, forward read-aheads to CC ES members, record attendance, arrange for
     Center participation and review minutes. Each ES briefer will submit the presentation
     topic one week before the scheduled Council meeting and provide read-ahead materials
     two days prior to the scheduled CC ES. The ES briefer will record minutes and action
     items.
     3.5.4. Approval. AFMC/CC retains final decision authority for all issues brought to the
     CC ES for resolution and approves all minutes.
     3.5.5. Frequency and location. The CC ES convenes at the direction of AFMC/CC, via
     VTC in the Situation Room, Building 262, WPAFB.




                                         STEPHEN T. DENKER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Director, Strategic Plans, Programs & Analyses
AFMCI90-601 11 MARCH 2014                                                         11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC CS—Air Force Materiel Command Corporate Structure
AO—Action Officer
CC ES—Commander Executive Session
CIO—Chief Information Officer
EOY—End of Year
HQ—Headquarters
IBRC—Investment Budget Review Committee
IT—Information Technology
NMUSAF—National Museum of the United States Air Force
OBRC—Operating Budget Review Committee
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEC—Program Element Code
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budget and Execution
SME—Subject Matter Expert
WPAFB—Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
HQ AFMC/CCX—The Commander's Action Group

Terms
AFMC Resource Management Panel— Body consisting of Center and HQ 2-Ltr members
organized to support resources (non-pay and manpower) tied to particular PECs
Chair— Leader of particular forum or group
PEM Parades— Briefings presented by Air Staff Program Element Monitors discussing the
content and status of a Program Element Code
