BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 10-205

                                                                                  16 APRIL 2014

                                                                                       Operations

                                                               EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION,
                                                                     ALERT AND RECALL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/A3X                                                    Certified by: HQ AFMC/A3X
                                                                                (Mr. Kurt Grabey)
Supersedes:    AFMCI 10-205,                                                            Pages: 10
               13 December 2011


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, and provides guidance to formulate pyramid
alert/recall procedures. It applies to all AFMC organizations; plans based on this instruction will
conform to their host base’s Recall and Notification Plan or comparable emergency plan. This
instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013. The Personnel Accountability program is not covered in this
AFMCI; see AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or
National Emergencies; also known as Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment
System (AFPAAS). A Command Center and installation Command Post exercise or real world
event involving the execution of a Center Level Notification/Recall will be triggered by an
AFPAAS requirement. NOTE: It is important to understand that AFPAAS is not a notification/
recall action. Notifications/recall procedures are required to conduct and complete an AFPAAS
event. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication
OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
 2                                                              AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014


Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been extensively revised to update procedures and terms, replacing AFMCI
10-205 dated 13 December 2011 and conforms to the Command’s new 5 Center organizational
structure. A Glossary of Reference and Supporting Information was also added at Attachment 1.
1. Overview. This publication establishes procedures within AFMC to alert, notify and/or recall
all assigned personnel, to include those at geographically separated units (GSUs), operating
locations (OLs), direct reporting units (DRUs) and those located on non-AFMC installations.
2. Organizational Responsibilities 2.1 HQ AFMC/A3 will
        2.1.1. Establish procedures and maintain the capability to execute an AFMC
        (Command)-wide notification/recall.
        2.1.2. Report Command results to the AFMC/CC/CV/CA.
        2.1.3. Test procedures semi-annually.
2.2. HQ AFMC/A3X will
        2.2.1. Direct the AFMC Command Center to establish and maintain procedures to
        execute and report a Command-wide notification/recall according to the situation (see
        2.2.2. below).
        2.2.2. Establish notification and reporting procedures for HQ AFMC Crisis Action Team
        (CAT) during activation and non-activation situations.
           2.2.2.1. When the CAT is activated, the CAT Director will disseminate the HQ
           Battle Staff Directive (BSD) initiating center-wide notification/alert (see Atch 4),
           receive reports from centers (see 7.2 below) when up-channel reporting is required
           and provide results to the AFMC Commander.
           2.2.2.2. When the CAT is not activated, predesignated A3X personnel will
           disseminate the center-wide notification/alert, receive reports from centers (see 7.2
           below) when up-channel reporting is required and provide results to the AFMC
           Commander through A3.
     2.3. The Center Plans & Programs office (or equivalent) will
        2.3.1. Develop, maintain an updated Alert/Recall plan that will
           2.3.1.1. Fulfill all requirements in para 3 below.
           2.3.1.2. Ensure the Command Post (CP) notifies the Center/CC of any AFMC-
           directed Notification/Recall sent to the Center’s servicing CP. The Center/CC can
           implement at his/her discretion, how to meet the reporting requirements contained in
           the Notification/Recall Instruction.
           2.3.1.3. Be compatible with CP operations, procedures, and instructions.
           2.3.1.4. Provide results to the HQ AFMC CAT when directed (see para 7).
AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014                                                                      3


      2.3.2. Coordinate actions within this plan with those in related plans or procedures as
      applicable.
      2.3.3. Provide assistance and training materials (see Attachments) to subordinate
      organizations as necessary.
      2.3.4. Test procedures semi-annually. Base exercises that test recall procedures fulfill
      this requirement.
      2.3.5. At AFMC bases, responsibilities for notification/recall plans may be delegated to
      the Installation Plans and Programs office at Center Commander’s discretion. See 3.3
      below.
   2.4. The installation CP will
      2.4.1. Develop and maintain current notification, alert and recall procedures to guide
      controller actions.
      2.4.2. Insure CP procedures are compatible with wing/directorate/staff office/GSU/OL
      unit notification, alert and recall plans.
      2.4.3. Notify wing/directorate/staff office/GSU/OL/DRU units as applicable when
          2.4.3.1. Directed by higher authority (Installation Commander, Center Commander,
          etc).
          2.4.3.2. Receiving specific information or messages after duty hours IAW the
          organizations’ instructions.
          2.4.3.3. An emergency situation requires recall (e.g. CAT/Emergency Operations
          Center (EOC), Senior Staff, Unit Control Center (UCC), Continuity of Operations
          Plan (COOP) etc).
      2.4.4. Be able to initiate notifications when communications are inoperative (see 6.2
      below.)
3. Organizational Plan Requirements
   3.1. Installations must be able to alert/notify any/all installation personnel during or after
   duty hours to include military personnel, Department of Defense (DOD) civilians and
   contractors {if required by contract}.
      3.1.1. During Command-wide notifications only, HQ AFMC/DSH is responsible for the
      alerting/notification of HQ AFMC personnel. HQ AFMC/DSH will utilize the DSH
      UCC to provide a consolidated vocal report of HQ personnel to HQ AFMC CAT at DSN
      787-7900 and an E-mail to afmc.cat.dir@us.af.mil. Refer to HQ AFMC Battle Staff
      Directives for further guidelines and reporting requirements.
   3.2. Centers must be able to alert/recall any/all center personnel during or after duty hours,
   including those geographically separated.
   3.3. All units (e.g. HQ directorates, centers, wings and subordinate units as appropriate):
   provide non-duty hour Notification Letters to their installation CP including POCs for
   specific messages, reports or events (e.g. Operational Report-3 (OPREP-3), aircraft accident
 4                                                                 AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014


     or incident, etc). See Attachment 2 for sample; modify as necessary for specific
     organizational requirements.
     3.4. Direct subordinate organizations to develop, disseminate and maintain a current
     organizational alert/recall roster, containing names and telephone numbers for all personnel.
     Mark unlisted phone numbers and observe Privacy Act caveats. Include procedures for
     comm-out recall. Provide a copy to your Center’s servicing CP and or installation CP. Note:
     Unless contractually specified, contractors cannot be recalled after duty hours.
4. Organization CAT (or equivalent) and/or Senior Staff Recall
     4.1. The CP initiates CAT recall at the direction of local or higher authority.
     4.2. The CP contacts designated organization POC(s) IAW established procedures.
     Approved recall statements at attachment 3.
     4.3. Once notified, CAT members will respond as directed and IAW the time limits in the
     organization’s applicable instructions.
5. Organization COOP Execution
     5.1. The CP initiates COOP warning/execution when local or higher authority so directs,
     IAW the Center’s COOP plan.
     5.2. The CP contacts the center or GSU COOP Continuity Plans Officer (CPO) and
     designated directorate Emergency Plans Coordinators (EPC(s) IAW the Center/GSU COOP
     plan. Use the appropriate statement from Attachment 3.
     5.3. Once notified, the CPO and EPC(s) will respond as directed and IAW their COOP plan.
6. Notification Procedures
     6.1. Only AFMC/CC, CV, CA, DS or the Commander’s Designated Alternate as defined in
     AFI 10- 205, AVAILABILITY OF KEY HQ AF PERSONNEL AND MAJOR COMMAND
     COMMANDERS, may direct/initiate Command-wide recalls/notifications. When directed,
     the AFMC Command Center will initiate notification/recall procedures to all or specified
     AFMC Centers/Installations. CPs will contact their designated POCs IAW direction and
     notification type. NOTE: When AFPAAS is initiated, it will result in a Command
     Notification/Recall. However, a Command Notification/Recall will not always result in an
     AFPAAS event.
        6.1.1. CPs will follow the installation notification/recall plan if the requirement is for all
        organizations on an installation. CPs will follow the installation notification/recall plan if
        the requirement is limited to all organizations on a particular installation. CPs will follow
        the center notification/recall plan if the requirement is 100% Command or Center contact.
        This also includes AFMC DRUs on the installation. Note: During exercises, personnel
        on leave or TDY need not be contacted.
     6.2. The CP will use any available communications system to pass emergency notification
     and report status through the chain of command: base-wide cable television message system,
     public address system, radio net, computer LAN, broadcast media, etc. For GSUs and OLs,
     radio, commercial telephone, etc. If no local communication system is available (comm-out
     situation), commanders will determine an appropriate contact method (e.g. runners). Note:
     CP personnel will not be used as runners.
AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014                                                                       5


7. Reporting Procedures
   7.1. For installation-wide notifications, report results IAW the base’s recall and notification
   plan.
   7.2. For Command-wide notifications (via center plans), centers will designate a POC to
   provide a consolidated vocal report to HQ AFMC CAT at DSN 787-7900 and an E-mail to
   afmc.cat.dir@us.af.mil. The initiating message (see atch 4) will specify reporting
   requirements, including duration and periodicity. Centers will report total center personnel,
   the number contacted and also as a percentage: e.g. Center X: 1000 personnel, 980
   contacted; 98%.




                                         WILLIAM J. THORNTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
 6                                                            AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTIVE INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANG—Air National Guard
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
BSD—Battle Staff Directive
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CP—Command Post
DRUs—Direct Reporting Units
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
GSUs—Geographically Separated Units
OLs—Operating Locations
UCC—Unit Control Center

Terms
5 Center Construct (5CC)— Air Force Materiel Command’s re-organization into 5 Centers,
Each with a single mission focus: Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, Air Force
Sustainment Center, Air Force Test Center, Air Force Research Laboratory and Air Force
Nuclear Weapons Centers.
Center. A named unit that performs a specialized mission. A primary characteristic is that it
performs most of its mission within a large complex at one location; for example, air logistics
centers and test centers. Usually, it has only a few subordinate units.
Command and Control (C2). The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. C2
functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications,
facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and
controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.
AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014                                                                        7


Commander’s Senior Staff. A C2 function normally activated for a specific incident to oversee
the mission operation of the installation. The Commander’s Senior Staff is scalable to support
the ICC and coordinate with the EOC. (NOTE: Do not abbreviate as CSS)
Contingency. An emergency involving military forces caused by natural disasters, terrorists,
subversives, or by required military operations. Due to the uncertainty of the situation,
contingencies require plans, rapid response and special procedures to ensure the safety and
readiness of personnel, installations, and equipment.
Continuity of Operations (COOP) plan. Executed when any event occurs that renders some or
all the HQ AFMC complex unusable, forcing relocation to alternate work site(s).
Continuity Plans Office (CPO). Overall focal point for the HQ AFMC COOP program and
plan execution.
Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). Refers to DOD support, including Federal
military forces, DOD civilians and DOD contractor personnel, and DOD agencies and
components, for domestic emergencies and for designated law enforcement and other activities.
Emergency Operations Center (EOC). For the purposes of AFIMS, the EOC is the C2
support elements that directs, monitors, and supports the installation’s actions before,
during, and after an incident. The EOC is activated and recalled as necessary by the
Installation Commander. The EOC updates the ICC with ongoing incident status and
seeks support through the ICC when on—scene requirements surpass the installation’s
inherent capability and the installation’s cumulative capabilities acquired through MAAs. EOCs
may also support MCS and joint information activities. According to the NRP, the EOC is
defined as – The physical location at which the coordination of information and resources to
support attack response and incident management activities normally takes place. An EOC may
be a temporary facility or may be located in a more central or permanently established facility,
perhaps at a higher level of organization within a jurisdiction. EOCs may be organized by major
functional disciplines such as fire, law enforcement, and medical services, by jurisdiction such as
Federal, State, regional, county, city, tribal, or by some combination thereof.
Emergency Plans Coordinator (EPC).—Focal point for COOP planning and execution at the
wing/directorate level. Develops/writes/maintains wing/directorate Continuity Plan, trains the
organization’s personnel in their assigned COOP execution duties, serves as the organization’s
focal point during COOP plan execution.
Installation Control Center (ICC). The ICC directs actions supporting the installation’s
mission. As the focal point for base—wide notification and operation, the ICC receives and
sends orders, information, and requests pertinent to the assigned task.
Laboratory.—An organization that performs a research or advanced development mission.
 8                                                                 AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014


                                           Attachment 2
                SAMPLE AFTER DUTY HOURS NOTIFICATION LETTER

Figure A2.1. Sample after Duty Hours Notification Letter
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

MEMORANDUM FOR XX ABW/CP

FROM: (Organization name)

SUBJECT: After Duty Hours Notifications

1. Request you notify one of the following individuals listed below after duty hours IAW our
instructions or when so directed for emergency alert/recall or Crisis Action Team recall.

       Name                            Duty Phone              Home Phone           Cell Phone

       Lt Col William Lennox           986-1234                867-5309               676-1234
       Maj Sam Witwicky                986-2345                945-8765               676-4567
       CMSgt Robert Epps               986-3456                678-9012               676-7890

2. Notify our command section office (986-1233) when situations occur during duty hours.

3. This letter supersedes all previous letters, same subject. The point of contact for this letter is
SrA Jerry Wang, DSN 986-1233, or jerry.wang@us.af.mil.

4. This information is covered by the Privacy Act of 1974.



                                               WILLIAM LENNOX, Lt Col, USAF
                                               Commander


“The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under
the Freedom of Information Act of 1966 and the Privacy Act of 1974 as amended.
Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result in
civil/and or criminal penalties.”
                                  FOR OFFICAIL USE ONLY
AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014                                                                     9


                                         Attachment 3
                                 SAMPLE NOTIFICATIONS

Figure A3.1. Sample Notifications
PYRAMID ALERT (Telephone Standby):
“This is the Command Post with a pyramid recall. All personnel are placed on telephone
standby until further notice.”

PYRAMID ALERT NOTIFICATION:
“This is the Command Post with a telephone pyramid alert. (Insert information here)
Potential reasons (not all inclusive)
“FPCON ________ has been declared for ________ AFB.
“Staggered work hours are in effect.”
“Due to (emergency situation), all personnel are directed to _______. Please contact all
personnel in your notification chain.”

PYRAMID RECALL, ALL PERSONNEL:
"This is the Command Post with a pyramid recall. Complete your pyramid recall notifications
and report to your normal duty station at (reporting time)."

CRISIS ACTION TEAM RECALL:
“The (Organization)/CC/CV has directed a Crisis Action Team recall. All CAT members will
report to the (primary / alternate) location immediately / at___________l.”

COOP EXECUTION, ALL AFFECTED PERSONNEL:
"This is the Command Post. The _________ COOP plan is executed. Please notify your
emergency relocation staff (ERS) members immediately.”

NOTE: customize announcements to meet local requirements/situations
 10                                                              AFMCI10-205 16 APRIL 2014


                                          Attachment 4
                        CENTER-WIDE REPORTING TEMPLATE

Figure A4.1. Center-Wide Reporting Template
DTG:

FROM: HQ AFMC/(Command Center or CAT Director)

TO: (tasked Center Commanders)

SUBJECT: Center-wide contact and reporting

1. (U) The AFMC/CC has directed (named or all centers) contact all their personnel, including
those at GSUs and OLs. Upon receiving this message, IAW AFMCI 10-205, utilize your
notification/recall plan to contact all military and civilian personnel under your command,
regardless of location, via your pyramid alerting system.

2. (U) Report your results as follows:
       Total Center personnel          __________
       Number successfully contacted __________
       Percentage contacted            __________

3. (U) Centers will report results at (specify start date/time), with follow-up reports at (specify
start date/time). If 100% contact is not completed by (specify), continue efforts until complete
or (specify).

4. (U) Submit Center reports to HQ AFMC CAT at DSN 787-7900 with a follow-up to
afmc.cat.dir@us.af.mil.
