BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 20-103

                                                                          4 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                      Logistics

                                                        DEPOT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGER
                                                                     (DSCM) PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A4R                                                    Certified by: HQ AFMC/A4
                                                                      (Colonel John Waggoner)
                                                                                      Pages: 7



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-1, Materiel Management and
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. This guidance establishes
the overall process and roles and responsibilities for the Depot Supply Chain Manager Integrated
Process Team (DSCM IPT) affecting Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC) encompassing
former offices from Aerospace Sustainment Directorates, Maintenance Wings (MXW), and Air
Force Global Logistics Support Center (AFGLSC). Any waiver requests or deviations to this
publication must be sent to the HQ AFMC/A4R for approval. This instruction applies to AFMC
units only. This publication does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the
Air National Guard (ANG) and their units.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Any
supplements to this AFMCI will be reviewed by the OPR (AFMC/A4) prior to publishing.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

See Attachment 1 for glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                         AFMCI20-103 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to provide a description of the DSCM process and
to establish the roles and responsibilities for the various entities in this process from the AFSC.
This process will fall under the overarching Integrated Planning Execution and Sustainment
Process (IPEx SP) supportability program, and is one of the tools it will employ. IPEx SP is
being developed with the objective of analyzing supportability for the entire Air Force enterprise,
while the DSCM IPT is charged with focusing on support to industrial activities. The AF has
joined with Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) in the DSCM process. The AFSC will supplement
this policy with specific procedures for performing the DSCM IPT.
2. Overview. The DSCM’s mission is to facilitate timely provision of materiel allowing for
uninterrupted maintenance schedules and meeting repair flow goals. Parts support to organic AF
Depot Maintenance for both Materiel Support Division (MSD) and General Support Division
(GSD) funded inventory has been challenging. Senior leaders from within AFMC and DLA
Aviation agree to participate collaboratively to improve supply support to the Air Logistics
Complexes (ALC) by participating in the DSCM initiative. The focus of DSCM IPTs is to
improve materiel supportability through effective demand planning, standard parts supportability
analysis and action planning.          There are two components to the DSCM effort:
Commodities/Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM) (refers to anything driven through
Execution and Prioritization of Repair Support System (EXPRESS)) and Aircraft/Engines.
3. DSCM Process (Aircraft/Engines and Commodities/ICBM)
     3.1. The Aircraft and Engine DSCM IPTs will ensure both DLA and AF managed parts are
     available in the right quantity with the right quality, at the right time and right place, thus
     enabling maintenance to meet Due Date Performance (DDP) goals. The DSCM IPT will
     ensure parts are supportable when needed by MX prior to transitioning responsibility to DLA
     at the tactical level. They will do this by adhering to the following general processes:
        3.1.1. Obtain from the Aerospace Sustainment Division (ASD), the full range of work
        that will be performed, associated Bill of Materiel G005M (BOM) or List of Materiel
        (LOM) as available, and the aircraft schedule in the execution year and as far through the
        Future Years Defense Plan (FYDP) as possible.
        3.1.2. Verify that parts required for new and existing Aircraft/Engine Maintenance
        programs and program changes are accounted for in Accountable Property System of
        Record in accordance with DODI 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DOD
        Equipment and Other Accountable Property.
        3.1.3. Analyze parts supportability of aircraft/engine and component level requirements
        necessary to support Aircraft Maintenance (including Budget Code (BC) 8 end items, BC
        9 components, Industrial Product-Support Vendor (IPV), Non-Stock Listed, and Local
        Manufacture parts as applicable) based on supporting aircraft/engine maintenance
        schedules. All other Budget Code items will be handled by exception.
        3.1.4. Work with all necessary personnel within the supply chain to ensure non-
        supportable items in support of Aircraft/Engine Maintenance become supportable in the
        future. Consider viability of consumable demand plans, necessity of expediting
        acquisition actions, stock out risk mitigation, expected stock level performance at the
        point of use, and other actions as circumstances dictate.
AFMCI20-103 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    3


      3.1.5. Document the results of the action plan in approved system/tool e.g. DSCM
      Analysis Tool (DSCM-AT) and other logistics information systems as appropriate for
      reporting to affected organizations.
      3.1.6. Conduct follow-up on the action plans input in approved system/tool to evaluate
      their effectiveness and adjust as needed to ensure non-supportable parts are available for
      the end item requirement when needed.
   3.2. The Commodities/ICBM DSCM IPTs will be focused on increasing materiel
   supportability, with the goal of enabling greater end-item output for their designated ALC
   Group by ensuring both DLA and AF parts are available in the right quantity, with the right
   quality at the right time and place. They will do this by adhering to the following general
   process:
      3.2.1. Analyze, by end item priority, an EXPRESS Planning Module (EPM) Non-
      Supportability Report (NSR) on a monthly basis, focusing on 90, 180, 365, and 720 day
      supportability time horizons.
      3.2.2. DSCM IPT lead will verify new/changed parts requirement forecasts obtained by
      ASD (aircraft), SCOG (commodities), and ALC are input into approved system/tool.
      3.2.3. Analyze parts supportability of end item and component level requirements
      necessary to support Commodity/ICBM Maintenance (including BC 8 end items, BC 9
      components, IPV, Non-Stock Listed, and Local Manufacture parts as applicable). All
      other Budget Code items will be handled by exception.
      3.2.4. Work with all necessary stakeholders within the supply chain to ensure non-
      supportable items become supportable. Consider viability of consumable demand plans,
      necessity of expediting acquisition actions, stock out risk mitigation, expected stock level
      performance at the point of use, and other actions as circumstances dictate.
      3.2.5. Document the results of the action plan in approved system/tool e.g. DSCM-AT
      for reporting supportability to MX, System Program Office (SPO), and any other affected
      organizations.
      3.2.6. Conduct follow- up on the action plan to evaluate their effectiveness and adjust as
      needed to ensure non-supportable parts are available for the end item requirement when
      needed.
4. Supportability Assessment Intervals
   4.1. There are three intervals in which assessments are to be conducted as part of the overall
   supportability process as outlined in the LRDP Guidance and Handbook.
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/DocMan/DocMain.asp?Filter=23211&FolderID=23211-
   14-2-4&Tab=0
      4.1.1. Tactical Supportability: Occurs when the ability to submit the first requisition
      (up to 30 days) prior to or upon aircraft/missile/commodity/engine induction and carries
      through production date or closure of the Job Order Number (JON) – whichever is later.
      4.1.2. Operational Supportability: Occurs for the period ranging from Workspec
      validation (up to 18 months prior to induction) and ending with the ability to submit the
      first requisition prior to induction (31 days prior to induction). Based on the operational
 4                                                        AFMCI20-103 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


        tail/serial number (as applicable) – assumes all identified supportability elements are/or
        will be available 31-days prior to task execution schedule.
        4.1.3. Strategic Supportability: Occurs for the period beyond 18 months prior to
        induction, extending as far as possible into the FYDP.
5. Roles and Responsibilities
     5.1. ALC Maintenance Groups will…
        5.1.1. Assign a maintenance planner with experience and knowledge of the associated
        aircraft/engines or commodities/ICBM workload to the DSCM IPT.
        5.1.2. Communicate changes within maintenance production schedule and requirements
        that will impact supportability requirements to DSCM IPT.
        5.1.3. Serve as general liaison between the DSCM IPT and Maintenance resources.
        5.1.4. Coordinate corrective actions with responsible party when forecast discrepancies
        are identified.
        5.1.5. Work with DLA Aviation, SCOG counterparts to ensure supportability or
        mitigation plan is documented correctly.
        5.1.6. Coordinate with the Resource Control Center Planner to ensure that
        Aircraft/Engine Tasks and Commodities/ICBM End Items for component IPV items are
        analyzed and ensure the correct Authorized Quantity (AQ) is set.
        5.1.7. Review BOM through DSCM-AT and take corrective action for:
           5.1.7.1. Component NSNs with a zero quantity per assembly.
           5.1.7.2. If an item appears to have an incorrect acquisition advice code, advise
           responsible organization.
     5.2. AFSC SCOG will…
        5.2.1. Appoint a member to conduct/lead monthly DSCM IPT meetings.
        5.2.2. Serve as focal point for briefing and reporting requests on DSCM IPTs.
        5.2.3. Collaborate and coordinate with supervision and DSCM IPTs to maintain
        awareness of systemic issues and adopt best practices and lessons learned.
        5.2.4. Analyze supportability of BC 8 items in support of end item repair and
        Aircraft/Engine Maintenance task.
        5.2.5. Ensure new Maintenance programs or changes have been loaded into an approved
        analysis system/tool e.g. DSCM-AT.
        5.2.6. Coordinate with responsible supply chain personnel (Item Managers, Equipment
        Specialists, Program Managers, etc) to resolve any discrepancies, especially variances
        between past demands, requirements, and forecast.
        5.2.7. Research and document issues for at risk parts i.e. yellow/red coded parts as
        described in the LRDP Handbook.
AFMCI20-103 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   5


      5.2.8. Collaborate with other DSCM IPT members to understand any previous actions
      that may have been taken to resolve issue.
      5.2.9. Work with all necessary personnel within the supply chain to collaboratively
      develop strategic action plans to assure those troubled items are supportable within the
      needed time frame.
      5.2.10. Work with DLA and ALC MXG counterparts to ensure overarching
      supportability for Depot Level Reparable (commodities) and Aircraft MX task (aircraft)
      is documented and obtained. This includes coordinating with DLA to identify DLA
      process changes, business rule changes, and IT system updates that would likely impact
      supportability due to reasons such as stock leveling decisions, asset allocation within the
      DLA network, or investment decisions.
      5.2.11. Follow up to make sure the action plan is implemented and adjusted as needed to
      achieve desired results.
      5.2.12. Document results of the action plan in approved system/tool.
   5.3. Aerospace Sustainment Division (ASD) will…
      5.3.1. Obtain organic depot maintenance requirements, BOM/LOM, and associated
      repair schedule and provide them to the Aircraft/Engine DSCM IPT.
      5.3.2. Work with DLA Aviation, AFSC Maintenance, and AFSC Supply counterparts to
      ensure action plans and mitigation plans are documented correctly and reported to the
      affected groups, when applicable.
      5.3.3. Coordinate corrective actions with responsible party when forecast discrepancies
      are identified.
6. Duration, Measurement, and Evaluation
   6.1. At a minimum, DSCM IPT team lead will schedule semi-annual reviews with the
   Integrated Planning Execution and Sustainment Process (IPEx SP) Functional Steering
   Group (FSG) to assess progress, lessons learned, and develop improvements for the
   Commodities and Aircraft DSCM processes. Items that cannot be resolved with the FSG
   will be elevated to the Executive Steering Committee.
   6.2. During the semi-annual review the DSCM IPT will provide the FSG with an assessment
   of the IPT’s achievements and impacts. Based on these assessments the FSG will
   collectively determine whether any adjustments to the program are needed including:
   expansion, sustainment, contraction, or disbandment.
   6.3. Individuals on each DSCM team will regularly report progress of efforts through their
   Chains of Command. The supervisors of the respective IPT members will determine the
   frequency of the reports due to the evolving environment.




                                           T. GLENN DAVIS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Director of Logistics and Sustainment
 6                                                   AFMCI20-103 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DODI 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DOD Equipment and Other Accountable
Property, 19 May 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Acronyms
A4—Directorate of Logistics
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
ALC—Air Logistics Complex
AQ—Authorized Quantity
ASD—Aerospace Sustainment Divisions
BOM—Bill of Materiel
DDP—Due Date Performance
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DSCM—Depot Supply Chain Manager
DSCM—AT – Depot Supply Chain Manager Analysis Tool
EPM—EXPRESS Planning Module
ESC—Executive Steering Committee
EXPRESS—Execution and Prioritization of Repair Support System
FSG—Functional Steering Group
GSD—General Support Division
IAW—In Accordance With
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
IPEx SP—Integrated Planning Execution and Sustainment Process
IPT—Integrated Product Team
AFMCI20-103 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                      7


IPV—Industrial Product-Support Vendor
JON—Job Order Number
LOM—List of Materiel
LRDP—Logistics Requirements Determination Process
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSD—Materiel Support Division
MX—Maintenance
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXW—Maintenance Wing
NSR—Non Supportability Report
PBA—Performance Based Agreement
SCOG—Supply Chain Operations Group
SPO—System Program Office

Terms
Logistics Requirements Determination Process— A simplified, standard, repeatable, and
consistent method for identifying and prioritizing requirements at the logistics enterprise level to
optimally sustain Air Force weapon systems within requisite resource constraints.
Performance Based Agreement— A framework for the coordination and alignment of
resources to support a given function or organization. It highlights key partnering efforts that
impact the collective ability to provide the best value and support to the end customer.
Programmed Depot Maintenance— The inspection and correction of defects that require
skills, equipment or facilities not normally possessed by operating location.
