BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 10-105

                                                                        24 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                   Operations

                                                       CRISIS COMMAND AND CONTROL


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A3XX                                       Certified by: HQ AMC/A3X (Mr. Kurt
                                                                                  Grabey)
                                                                                 Pages: 14



This instruction implements Air Force Mission Directive 4, Air Force Materiel Command
(AFMC). This AFMC Instruction standardizes the crisis and contingency Command and Control
(C2) organizational structure and processes within the Command. It introduces a Center level
Battle Staff organization within AFMC’s 5 Center Construct (5CC) (see Attachment 1, Terms);
defines organizational responsibilities; establishes crisis Command and Control (C2) policy and
details the tasking authorities during AFMC crisis or contingency response operations. It is
applicable to all AFMC units. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG)
and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

This publication can be supplemented at center/wing level and must be published as a stand-
alone document. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                       AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013


                                           Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. Purpose. This instruction
     1.1.1. Defines the basic structure of AFMC’s crisis Command and Control (C2) structure;
     1.1.2. Defines AFMC organizational crisis C2 responsibilities;
     1.1.3. Outlines standard AFMC crisis C2 operating procedures;
     1.1.4. Details the lines of communication between the HQ AFMC Staff, AFMC Battle Staff,
     AFMC Crisis Action Team (CAT), Center Battle Staffs, AFMC host Wing CATs/Emergency
     Operating Centers (EOCs) and their servicing Command Posts (CPs).
        1.1.4.1. For the purposes of this AFMCI, “Wing” refers to Wings and stand-alone
        Groups with AFMC host installation responsibilities.
1.2. General. The dynamic nature of crisis, contingency and wartime operations demands an
organizational structure tailored to support a range of military operations; flexible procedures;
and rapid, effective and coordinated communications. This structure must leverage existing
plans and practiced procedures to provide timely, appropriate responses to emerging
requirements while assessing future needs and possible courses of action.                 During
crisis/contingency operations, AFMC must be capable of responding to a variety of internal and
external tasks, to include requirements levied by the Joint Staff (JS), Headquarters Air Force
(HAF), United States Northern Command (USNORTHCOM) and other Combatant Commands
(COCOMs). The Command’s standing C2 structure contains 24/7 C2 nodes, directly responsible
to the commander(s). They serve as the focal point of operations and receipt/dissemination of
orders. These nodes also process necessary information and requests for the day-to-day C2 of
assigned forces and operations.
     1.2.1. Figure 1.1 depicts an example of the day-to-day C2 structure and communication
     between the HQ AFMC staff, AFMC Command Center, a Center and its servicing Command
     Post. Routine C2 operations are performed IAW AFI 10-206 Operational Reporting, AFI
     10-207, Command Posts, and Emergency Action Procedures (EAP).
AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                3


Figure 1.1. AFMC Day-to-Day C2 structure




   1.2.2. At each level (HQ, Center, Wing) within the Command, senior leadership is the
   decision-making body for directing contingency operations. Circumstances which may
   require AFMC to direct activation of the Command’s crisis C2 structure include, but are not
   limited to:
      1.2.2.1. Operations Plan (OPLAN) and Concept Plan (CONPLAN) implementation;
      1.2.2.2. Major natural disasters;
      1.2.2.3. Major peacetime accidents and complex catastrophes;
      1.2.2.4. Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) exercises;
      1.2.2.5. Homeland Defense responses;
      1.2.2.6. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO).
   1.2.3. To focus the Command on a crisis or contingency, the AFMC Commander
   (AFMC/CC) requires an additional crisis centered, tailorable C2 structure and flexible
   support staff. The structure and staff must provide a corporate approach to time-sensitive
   operations and be able to meet Command and USAF crisis requirements. The addition of
   Battle Staffs and Crisis Action Teams (CATs) to the Command’s C2 structure provides this
   centered, tailorable C2 structure. Battle Staffs and CATs speed response times to
   contingency tasks and information dissemination while providing Commanders, at all levels,
   an increased awareness needed to perform their missions.
      1.2.3.1. The Command’s contingency/crisis C2 structure consists of the AFMC Battle
      Staff, AFMC CAT, five Center Battle Staffs and Installation level Disaster Response
      Forces, (CATs/EOCs) and their servicing Command Posts. Figure 1.2 depicts an
 4                                                       AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013


        example of the AFMC’s crisis C2 structure with an expanded view of the C2 structure
        below Air Force Sustainment Center.

Figure 1.2. AFMC Crisis C2 Structure




     1.2.4. The Chair of the HQ AFMC Battle Staff (AFMC/CC/CV/CA or their designated
     alternate) can direct Center Battle Staff and Wing CAT activations, as required through the
     AFMC CAT, providing a venue to address an actual or expected contingency situation. This
     does not appropriate the owning Center or Wing commander’s ability to activate their crisis
     C2 nodes.
     1.2.5. Battle Staffs and CATs can provide up to 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week
     contingency/crisis C2 through their leadership and functional area experts. They may adjust
     posture and/or composition depending on the type and tempo of supported operations.
     Posture adjustments are defined as a change in operating hours or employing a response cell;
     composition adjustment is defined as employing more, or fewer, personnel as the situation
     dictates.
AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    5


                                           Chapter 2

                                           POLICY

2.1. Structure. HQ AFMC will activate the AFMC Battle Staff and AFMC CAT to support
contingency and crisis operations. Center Commanders will establish Battle Staffs and Wing
Commanders will establish CATs to support contingency and crisis operations. Battle Staffs and
CATs must be able to manage their functional responsibilities or have a staff reach-back
capability to support crisis operations.
2.2. Crisis Operations. The AFMC/CC may direct the HQ AFMC CAT to convene at the start
of a crisis/contingency to focus staff attention and action on time-sensitive emergent
requirements. The HQ AFMC CAT serves as the Commander’s single point of entry and exit
for all crisis and contingency tasks and requirements.
   2.2.1. If the AFMC Battle Staff and AFMC CAT are activated, crisis tasks/directives flow
   from the AFMC Battle Staff through the AFMC CAT to activating/activated Center Battle
   Staffs (or installation CATs) in the form of a Battle Staff Directives (BSDs) sent via the
   AFMC Command Center to affected Center and Wing servicing Command Posts and
   organizational Workflow email accounts.
   2.2.2. In the event Center Battle Staffs and/or Wing CATs are activated, crisis
   tasks/directives flow from Center Battle Staffs to subordinate units using Center Command
   Directives (CCDs) via effected Center and Wing servicing Command Posts and
   organizational Workflow email accounts.
   2.2.3. When Wing CATs are activated, Wing commanders will issue crisis tasks/directives
   using Installation Commander Directives (ICDs) to task installation organizations.
   2.2.4. The Air Force is organized in a skip-echelon structure (see AFI 38-101, Air Force
   Organization). MAJCOMs and wings possess the full range of staff functions needed to
   perform required crisis and contingency staff tasks. AFMC Centers may not possess the
   requisite staff expertise to effectively respond to the same emerging and time sensitive crisis
   response tasks and requests. In these cases, the AFMC/CC may authorize direct liaison
   (DIRLAUTH) IAW AFDD1-1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, Organization, and Command,
   between the HQ AFMC CAT and installation CATs (Figure 2.1.).
   2.2.5. When operating under DIRLAUTH, the HQ AFMC CAT and Wing CATs will send
   courtesy copies of all correspondence to the Wing CAT’s owning Center Battle Staff.
 6                                             AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013


Figure 2.1. AFMC Crisis C2 Structure with DIRLAUTH
AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                7



                                          Chapter 3

                                   RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. HQ AFMC. The Director of Air, Space and Information Operations (HQ AFMC/A3) is the
AFMC senior official designated to direct HQ AFMC Battle Staff, AFMC CAT, AFMC
Command Center and AFMC crisis/contingency C2 response program and policies.
   3.1.1. HQ AFMC/A3X is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for AFMC
   crisis/contingency C2 response policy.
   3.1.2. HQ AFMC/A3X will:
      3.1.2.1. Manage the Command’s overall crisis C2 response program;
      3.1.2.2. Publish AFMC crisis response policy guidance, including AFMCI 10-105, Crisis
      Command and Control;
      3.1.2.3. Provide policy and guidance to AFMC organizations on crisis C2 planning and
      execution;
      3.1.2.4. Oversee the HQ AFMC Battle Staff and CAT programs;
      3.1.2.5. Publish AFMCHOI 10-1, Crisis Response-Air Force Materiel Command Crisis
      Action Team (CAT) and Battle Staff;
      3.1.2.6. Serve as the POC for all crisis C2 response planning issues.
3.2. AFMC Centers. AFMC Center Commanders or their designated representatives will:
   3.2.1. Appoint an OPR to direct their organization’s crisis response activities and provide
   names, organization, secure and non-secure office phones, NIPRnet and SIPRnet, personal
   and organizational email addresses to HQ AFMC/A3X. The OPR will:
      3.2.1.1. Incorporate and institutionalize crisis response concepts into relevant Center
      guidance, policies, strategies, programs, budgets, training, exercise and evaluation
      methods;
      3.2.1.2. Initiate and maintain an effective Center crisis response program;
          3.2.1.2.1. Develop, coordinate, publish and maintain their Center crisis response
          plans. Review annually and update as changes warrant;
      3.2.1.3. Represent the Center at command-level crisis response and exercise planning
      meetings and conferences;
      3.2.1.4. Provide guidance and training to Center personnel on crisis response planning
      and execution;
      3.2.1.5. Coordinate with assigned and attached subordinate wings/directorates to
      develop and maintain crisis response plans and capabilities to complement Center crisis
      response plans;
 8                                                          AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013


        3.2.1.6. Coordinate with the Center Continuity Plans Officer (CPO) to ensure that Battle
        Staff facilities, equipment, communications and other relocation/reconstitution
        requirements are fully addressed in the Center Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP);
        3.2.1.7. Direct subordinate wings/directorates to appoint in writing a crisis response OPR
        and oversee the crisis response program activities in their organization; subordinate
        wings/directorates names and contact information must be provided to the Center and HQ
        AFMC/A3X.
     3.2.2. Establish a Battle Staff to provide, when required, a sustained 24-hours-a-day, seven-
     days-a-week operations venue for members of the Center staff to perform crisis action
     planning and contingency operations execution. Centers may tailor their Battles Staff, as
     required, to meet the unique nature of their mission and. As a minimum the Center Battle
     Staff will:
        3.2.2.1. Include the necessary staff functions to adequately address HHQ tasks in a
        timely manner;
        3.2.2.2. Develop and maintain continuity guides and checklists;
        3.2.2.3. Maintain   supporting   documentation,       forms,     and     the    necessary
        telecommunication equipment required for Battle Staff activation;
            3.2.2.3.1. At a minimum, administrative equipment will include the following
            capabilities: NIPRnet access, SIPRnet access, unclassified Defense Connect Online
            (DCO) web conferencing capability, classified DCO web conferencing capability,
            secure and unsecure Video Teleconferencing (SVTC/VTC) and standard and
            encrypted telephone communications system (STE or VoSIP);
            3.2.2.3.2. Centers will establish standardized NIPR and SIPR Battle Staff e-mail
            accounts identified as the “Center’s organizational title organizational position
            Workflow” (e.g. “AFLCMC Battle Staff Director Workflow”). This is the primary
            organizational account to which inbound tasks and requirements are sent, Center level
            sub-tasks are released and Wing responses to Center level crisis/contingency tasks are
            sent;
        3.2.2.4. Participate in quarterly familiarization training;
        3.2.2.5. Brief the HQ AFMC CAT and HQ AFMC Battle Staff, as appropriate;
        3.2.2.6. Review and approve consolidated Center Situation Reports (SITREPs);
        3.2.2.7. Ensure a record of events is maintained for mission continuity and after action
        review;
        3.2.2.8. Notify the AFMC Command Center of activation, deactivation or status change;
        3.2.2.9. Conduct a post-operations hotwash with all participating Battle Staff personnel
        following activation for any exercise or operation;
            3.2.2.9.1. Hotwash results will be presented to senior Center leadership. Forward a
            copy to HQ AFMC/A3X for lessons learned dissemination within the Command’s
            crisis response community and inclusion in AFMC Council After Action Reviews.
3.3. AFMC Wing responsibilities.
AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  9


  3.3.1. AFMC Wing Commanders or their designated representative will appoint an OPR to
  direct their organization’s crisis response activities and provide names, organization, secure
  and non-secure office phones, NIPRnet and SIPRnet, personal and organizational email
  addresses to its owning Center and HQ AFMC/A3X. The OPR will:
     3.3.1.1. Incorporate and institutionalize crisis response concepts into relevant guidance,
     policies, strategies, programs, budgets, training and exercise and evaluation methods;
     3.3.1.2. Initiate and maintain a comprehensive and effective crisis response program,
     adequately planned, programmed and budgeted;
         3.3.1.2.1. Develop and maintain crisis response plans and capabilities to complement
         its owning Center crisis response plan;
         3.3.1.2.2. Develop, coordinate, publish and maintain their organization’s crisis
         response plans. Review annually and update as changes warrant;
     3.3.1.3. Represent their organization at command-level crisis response and exercise
     planning meetings and conferences;
     3.3.1.4. Provide guidance and training to organizational personnel on crisis response
     planning and execution.
  3.3.2. Wings will establish a CAT, or equivalent organization, to provide, when required, a
  sustained 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week operations venue for members of the Wing
  staff to perform crisis action planning and contingency operations execution. The CAT will:
     3.3.2.1. Include the necessary staff functions to adequately address HHQ/Center tasks in
     a timely manner;
     3.3.2.2. Develop and maintain continuity guides and checklists;
     3.3.2.3. Maintain the required support documentation, forms and administrative
     equipment for CAT activation;
         3.3.2.3.1. At a minimum, administrative equipment will include the following
         capabilities: NIPRnet access, SIPRnet access, unclassified Defense Connect Online
         (DCO) web conferencing capability, classified DCO web conferencing capability,
         secure and unsecure Video Teleconferencing (SVTC/VTC) and standard and
         encrypted telephone communications system (STE or VoSIP);
         3.3.2.3.2. To standardize email account nomenclatures, Wing CATs will establish
         both a NIPR and SIPR CAT e-mail account identified as the Wing’s organizational
         title organizational position Workflow” (e.g. “412 TW CAT Director Workflow”).
         This will be the primary organizational account used to release Wing level CAT
         Director tasks and responses from and to which inbound tasks and requirements are to
         be sent;
     3.3.2.4. Participate in quarterly familiarization training;
     3.3.2.5. Brief the HQ AFMC Battle Staff, HQ AFMC CAT and Center Battle Staff(s), as
     appropriate;
     3.3.2.6. Submit SITREPs as tasked;
 10                                                   AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013


      3.3.2.7. Ensure a record of events is maintained for mission continuity purposes and to
      support after action reviews;
      3.3.2.8. Notify the owning Center and AFMC Command Center of activation,
      deactivation or status change;
      3.3.2.9. Conduct a post-operations hotwash with all participating CAT or equivalent
      personnel following activation for any exercise or operation;
          3.3.2.9.1. Hotwash results will be presented to senior Wing and Center leadership.
          Forward a copy to HQ AFMC/A3X for lessons learned dissemination within the
          Command’s crisis response community and inclusion in AFMC Council After Action
          Reviews.
3.4. Other Organization(s) responsibilities (e. g. Systems Program Offices (SPO), Program
Executive Officers (PEOs), non-host Wings).
   3.4.1. The nature of the AFMC acquisition mission necessitates receiving direct tasks from
   outside the AFMC command structure. Any organization/individual receiving an external
   task from an outside agency relating to crisis or contingency operations must advise its
   Center Battle Staff who, in turn, will advise the AFMC Battle Staff and the AFMC CAT.
AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   11


                                           Chapter 4

                               TRAINING AND EXERCISES

4.1. Training. AFMC crisis response organizations will design crisis response training
programs to train personnel to include the AERO - Command and Control course as directed by
AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations. OPRs will train
HQ/Center/Wing crisis response personnel and provide them with training outlines. OPRs will
add information and guidance appropriate/unique to their organization. Training will include
both crisis response policies and position-specific duties and should be held within 60 days of
assignment. As minimum, refresher training will be provided semi-annually.
   4.1.1. Battle Staff and CAT members will be trained to perform their assigned duties in a no-
   warning execution.
   4.1.2. AFMC Commanders and Directors at all levels will be briefed by their crisis response
   OPR on their crisis response program preparation and execution responsibilities.
4.2. Exercises. HQ AFMC, Centers and Wings will exercise their Battle Staff and/or CAT at
least annually. Exercises may be combined with installation, command or JCS level exercises.
   4.2.1. AFMC will conduct an annual command-wide crisis and contingency response
   exercise. The Commander’s intent is to engage the command at all levels (HQ AFMC to
   squadron/branch level) during this annual event. Every effort will be made to align this
   requirement with a USNORTHCOM or USSTRATCOM joint exercise or as otherwise
   tasked by Headquarters Air Force. The HQ AFMC CAT, Center Battle Staffs and Wing
   CATs will be activated to support the exercise. Wing level exercise and response
   requirements will be coordinated and deconflicted from the existing installation exercise
   program or Inspector General directed activities.
       4.2.1.1. Participation in real-world events may be substituted for the annual exercise
       requirement if it is of sufficient scope and length to meet the intent of 4.2.1. Waivers to
       the annual exercise requirement must be submitted to AFMC/A3 through the HQ
       AFMC/A3X.
   4.2.2. Individual exercise response objectives and requirements may be combined with other
   exercise functional objectives into a single event.
   4.2.3. Annual COOP requirements will be conducted as part of the Battle Staff/CAT
   exercise program. HQ/Centers/Wings should visit their designated relocation site at least
   annually to familiarize members with the facilities and available equipment.
       4.2.3.1. Battle Staffs and CATs will collect after-action reports and use the information
       to improve/update their COOP program, plans and/or methodologies.




                                            William J. Thornton, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
 12                                                      AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD1-1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, Organization, and Command, 14 October 2011
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2011
AFI 10-207, Command Posts, 1 February 2012
AFI 10-208, AF COOP Program, 15 December 2011
AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 January 2007
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFMAN 10-2502, Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS) Standards and Procedures,
25 September 2009
AFMAN 10-2504, AF Incident Management Guidance for Major Accidents and Natural
Disasters, 13 March 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMCHOI 10-1, Crisis Response-Air Force Materiel Command Crisis Action Team (CAT) and
Battle Staff, 6 December 2012
AFPD 10-8, Defense Support to Civil Authorities (DSCA), 19 September 2012
Joint Publication 1, Doctrine of the Armed Forces of the United States
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AERO—- Air Force Emergency Response Operations
AFDD—- Air Force Doctrine Document
AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
AFMC—- Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—- Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
CP—- Command Post
COOP—- Continuity of Operations
DEFCON—- Defense Readiness Condition
DOD—- Department of Defense
DS—- Director of Staff
FPCON—- Force Protection Condition
HHQ—- Higher Headquarters
AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     13


HOI—- Headquarters Operating Instruction
HQ—- Headquarters
HURCON—- Hurricane Condition
IAW—- In Accordance With
LERTCON—- Alert Condition
MAJCOM—- Major Command
NIPRnet— -- Non-classified Internet Protocol (IP) Router Network
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
OPREP—3 -- Operational Report
SIPRnet— -- Secure Internet Protocol (IP) Router Network
STE—- Secure Terminal Equipment
VoSIP—- Voice Over Secure Internet Protocol

Terms
5 Center Construct (5CC)— Air Force Materiel Command’s re-organization into 5 Centers,
each with a single mission focus: Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, Air Force
Sustainment Center, Air Force Test Center, Air Force Research Laboratory and Air Force
Nuclear Weapons Centers.
Awareness— The continual process of collecting, analyzing, and disseminating intelligence,
information, and knowledge to allow organizations and individuals to anticipate requirements
and to react effectively.
Center— A named unit that performs a specialized mission. A primary characteristic is that it
performs most of its mission within a large complex at one location; for example, air logistics
centers and test centers. Usually, it has only a few subordinate units.
Command and Control (C2)— The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. C2
functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications,
facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating and
controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.
Communicate— To use any means or method to convey information of any kind from one
person or place to another.
Contingency— A situation requiring military operations in response to natural disasters,
terrorists, subversives, or as otherwise directed by appropriate authority to protect US interests.
Crisis— An incident or situation involving a threat to a nation, its territories, citizens, military
forces, possessions, or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates a condition of such
diplomatic, economic, political, or military importance that commitment of military forces and
resources is contemplated to achieve national objectives.
 14                                                       AFMCI10-105 24 DECEMBER 2013


Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA)— Refers to DOD support, including Federal
military forces, DOD civilians and DOD contractor personnel, and DOD agencies and
components, for domestic emergencies and for designated law enforcement and other activities.
Emergency Operations Center (EOC)— For the purposes of the Air Force Incident
Management System (AFIMS), the EOC is the C2 support elements that directs, monitors, and
supports the installation’s actions before, during, and after an incident. The EOC is activated and
recalled as necessary by the Installation Commander. The EOC updates the commander with
ongoing incident status and seeks support when on-scene requirements surpass the installation’s
inherent capability and the installation’s cumulative capabilities acquired through MAAs. EOCs
may also support MCS and joint information activities. According to the National Response Plan
(NRP), the EOC is defined as ―The physical location at which the coordination of information
and resources to support attack response and incident management activities normally takes
place. An EOC may be a temporary facility or may be located in a more central or permanently
established facility, perhaps at a higher level of organization within a jurisdiction. EOCs may be
organized by major functional disciplines such as fire, law enforcement, and medical services, by
jurisdiction such as Federal, State, regional, county, city, tribal, or by some combination thereof.
Hotwash— An after action review with the intent to formulate lessons learned and establish best
practices.
Laboratory— An organization that performs a research or advanced development mission.
