BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                         INSTRUCTION 90-902

                                                                          10 DECEMBER 2007

                                                                   AIR ARMAMENT CENTER
                                                                              Supplement

                                                                         20 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                                                         Specialty Management

                                                      OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions in this publication.

OPR: AFMC/SEG                                                            Certified by: AFMC/SE
Supersedes: AFMCI90-902,                                                         (Chuck Dorney)
            1 September 2001                                                            Pages: 20
                                            (AAC)
OPR: AAC/SEG                                                              Certified by: AAC/SE
Supersedes: AFMCI90-902 ACC Sup 1,                                                  (Col Guidry)
            23 September 2005                                                            Pages:2


This instruction implements AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 90-901, Operational Risk Management. This Air Force Materiel Command
Instruction (AFMCI) establishes requirements for implementing an integrated Operational Risk
Management (ORM) program throughout AFMC. It assigns responsibilities for program
elements and contains program management information. AFMC Centers and subordinate units
are responsible for the establishment, integration and sustainment of their respective programs
described in this instruction and AFI 90-901. This AFMCI applies to the AFMC Headquarters
and to all AFMC Product Centers, Air Logistics Centers (ALCs), Air Force Research
Laboratories (AFRL), Test Centers, Field Operating Agencies (FOAs) and Direct Reporting
Units (DRUs), and may be supplemented as needed to support local ORM programs. It does not
apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR) units.
Consistent with a paperless office approach, all reports, plans, checklists and other ORM related
documentation may be maintained or submitted in electronic format unless prohibited by other
 2                                                           AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


regulations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://atrims.amc.af.mil. Request for waiver to this AFMCI , will
be staffed through the center/wing and HQ AFMC safety offices for their comments,
concurrence, or non-concurrence.

(AAC) This supplement implements AFMCI 90-902, 10 December 2007, Operational Risk
Management (ORM) is supplemented as follows: This publication provides direction for
incorporation of the Air Armament Center (AAC) ORM Steering Committee into the AAC
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council. This supplement applies to all AAC
subordinate units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information System (AFRIMS)
Records     Disposition    Schedule    (RDS)      located    at    ttps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document also covers all AF reservists who are assigned to and work for AFMC
organizations. The required annual summary report can now be included as a part of the
Environmental, Safety & Occupational Health (ESOH)/Air Force Occupational Safety & Health
(AFOSH) council minutes (end of FY). An abbreviated three step ORM process (ACT) was
added for those needing to do quick time critical assessments. Performance of annual (minimum
requirement) assessments of organizational ORM programs is now required. References, terms,
and definitions have been update where needed.

(AAC) This document is substantially revised to updated procedures and office symbols; must
be completely reviewed.

Section A—ORM PROCESS DESCRIPTION                                                                                                        3
       1.      Definition, Purpose and Scope. ..............................................................................             3
       2.      HQ AFMC, Center/Wing and Organizational. ......................................................                           3
       3.      ORM Process Principles. .......................................................................................           3
       3.      (AAC) Principles. ..................................................................................................      3
       4.      ORM Fundamentals. ..............................................................................................          4
       5.      ORM Abbreviated Three-Step Process. .................................................................                     5

Section B—PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                                                                                             6
       6.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................   6
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                                                                            3


Table 6.1.     AAC ORM Steering Committee. ...........................................................................           7
       7.      Center/Wing ORM Programs. ...............................................................................        11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                  14

Attachment 1—ORM TRAINING REQUIREMENTS MATRIX                                                                                   14

Attachment 2—RECOMMENDED ORM ANNUAL SUMMARY REPORT ITEMS                                                                        15

Attachment 3—ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST                                                                                              17

Attachment 4—REQUIRED TOPICS FOR ORM TRAINING COURSES                                                                      Error! Bookmark not def


Section A—ORM PROCESS DESCRIPTION

1. Definition, Purpose and Scope. ORM is a decision-making process used to systematically
evaluate possible courses of action, identify risks and benefits, and determine the best course of
action to take for any given situation. ORM enables Commanders, functional managers,
supervisors, and individuals to maximize operational capabilities while minimizing all types of
risk by applying a systematic process (like the 5-M Model; Man, Machine, Media, Management,
and Mission) as explained in AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines
and Tools. It is appropriate for use by all organizations and personnel, both on- and off-duty.
Successful mission accomplishment requires use of risk management processes, and application
of the ORM process ensures more consistent results. ORM techniques and tools add both
structure and thoroughness to mission accomplishment, thereby directly strengthening AFMC's
support to the Air Force's war fighting posture.
2. HQ AFMC, Center/Wing and Organizational. ORM program implementation, integration
and sustainment plans should support the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force (CSAF)
goals as defined in AFPD 90-9, paragraph 3.
3. ORM Process Principles. Collectively, the four principles governing all actions associated
with managing risk are:
3. (AAC)Principles. Four principles govern all actions associated with risk management. These
continuously employed principles are applicable before, during and after all tasks and operations.
   3.1. Accept no unnecessary risk.
   3.1. (AAC) Accept no Unnecessary Risk. In AAC our missions and daily routines involve
   risk.
   3.2. Make risk decisions at the appropriate level.
   3.2. (AAC) Make Risk Decisions at the Appropriate Level. Making risk decisions at the
   appropriate level establishes clear accountability. Those accountable for the success or
   failure of the mission must be included in the risk decision process. Risk contained at the
   unit level as a minimum must involve the shop supervisor. Unit commanders should make
   decisions that affect the entire unit. Decisions effecting the mission should involve the
   appropriate wing-level or equivalent commander/director or higher. Finally, decisions that
   affect the greater community or have Air Force-wide impact should involve the Air
 4                                             AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


     Armament Center Commander (AAC/CC) or higher. If the assessed risk ends up being a
     high risk, then the next higher command level should be used for risk acceptance. If the final
     risk is extremely high then the risk should be two steps higher. At any point during an ORM
     assessment, when it is determined that the scope or risk is greater than originally assessed,
     elevate the assessment to the appropriate level of command.
     3.3. Accept risk when benefits outweigh the costs.
     3.3. (AAC) All identified benefits should be compared to all identified costs. Note: The
     benefits/cost in ORM includes non-dollar costs and benefits, for example, BASH
     management benefits, personnel lives and endangered species. Even high risk endeavors
     may be undertaken when there is clear knowledge that the sum of the benefits exceeds the
     sum of the costs. Balancing costs and benefits may be a subjective process and open to
     interpretation. Ultimately, the balance may need a final decision by the appropriate
     authority.
     3.4. Integrate ORM into operations and planning at all levels. AFMC personnel are required
     to apply these principles before, during, and after all tasks and operations. Consistent
     application requires training on the ORM processes. See AFPAM 90-902, Chapter 4, and
     paragraph 6.4 below, for further guidance.
     3.4. (AAC) Effectively applied risk management requires commanders dedicating time,
     resources and incorporating risk management principles into the planning processes. Risks
     are easier assessed and managed during planning stages of an operation. Integrating risk
     management into early planning provides the decision maker the best opportunity to apply
     ORM principles. Multiple risk assessment processes exist from the simple to the complex.
     The nature of the activity involved often dictates the process used but all commanders,
     functional managers, supervisors and individuals should understand ORM and how its
     principles, when properly applied, can help minimize risk.
4. ORM Fundamentals. All AFMC ORM programs will include the essential concepts
outlined below:
     4.1. Comprise a comprehensive system for improving individual and organizational risk
     management performance in all functional areas and operations.
     4.2. Be tailored to meet the unique mission needs and operational requirements of each
     AFMC organization on or off the installation.
     4.3. Provide the process and needed tools to develop and enhance awareness and
     understanding of at-risk activities and behavior for all personnel, both on- and off-duty.
     4.4. Ensure the application of ORM processes are used to help identify areas where
     regulatory guidance is overly restrictive or not consistent with mission requirements. In this
     event, risk assessments may be used to support requests for appropriate level waivers,
     variances or changes, but will not in itself constitute authority to violate any directive, policy,
     standard, or other applicable regulatory guidance. Added guidance can be found in AFOSH
     STD 91-501, paragraph 1.3.5.9., Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard.
     4.4. (AAC) ORM training levels 1 through 4 will be completed and the training
     documented. If the ORM University is used, the certificate is considered proof of training.
     Other appropriate forms of documentation include the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                                            5


   Health Record; IMDS; TBA; etc. All personnel should have at minimum level 3 training and
   supervisors and USRs level 2.
      4.4.1. (Added-AAC) Annual ORM training is recommended to be given by the shop
      supervisor covering all ORM process used within the unit. Annual ORM training should
      be completed and the training documented on the AF Form 55, IMDS, TBA, etc.
          4.4.1.1. (Added-AAC) All units will establish ORM training as part of each unit’s
          in-processing checklist, and establish a system to document initial ORM training and
          document on the AF Form 55, IMDS, TBA, etc.
   4.5. Incorporation of a continuous, systematic decision-making tool, Systematic Risk
   Management, (see Terms, Attachment 1) helps with the application of management and
   sound engineering principles, criteria and tools, to optimize all aspects of safety within the
   constraints of operational effectiveness, time, and cost throughout all mission phases. This
   application provides insight on how the composite (The 5-M Model) of hardware,
   procedures, and people that accomplish the mission or produce/cause mishaps, must be
   viewed as a system. This application is explained further in AFPAM 90-902, paragraph 11,
   Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, and consists of the following
   six steps:
      4.5.1. Identifying the Threats or Hazards.
      4.5.2. Assessing the Risk.
      4.5.3. Analyzing Risk Control Measures.
      4.5.4. Making Control Decisions.
      4.5.5. Implementing Risk Controls.
      4.5.6. Supervision and Review.
5. ORM Abbreviated Three-Step Process.
   5.1. The following is a description of the three three-step ORM process: ACT is an
   abbreviated form of the ORM six-step process that may be used for risk assessments in time-
   critical situations. ACT is most beneficial in less complex off-duty activities, such as driving
   and recreational events. This abbreviated risk management process may also be appropriate
   in the execution phase of an operation in which mission demands do not allow enough time
   to perform a detailed analysis using the six-step ORM process, or for an ―on-the-run‖ review
   prior to performing a technical order task. ACT merges the six steps of ORM into three
   broader steps that may be used where risk management is accomplished mentally or verbally
   and action taken in minutes or even seconds. ACT is not appropriate for deliberate or
   strategic levels of risk management where more in-depth assessments are necessary to meet
   mission needs. The ACT 3-Step process is:
      5.1.1. Assess the Environment for Risk. Step one of the process involves looking at
      surroundings of the task to determine what could go wrong, the likelihood of occurrence,
      and the severity of impact. Considerations would include time, equipment, personnel,
      weather, etc.
 6                                            AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


        5.1.2. Consider Options to Limit Risk. Step two of the process involves seeking ways to
        eliminate risk identified in step one. If the risk cannot be eliminated, measures to mitigate
        or control the risk should be identified.
        5.1.3. Take Appropriate Action. Step three of the process involves implementing the best
        options to eliminate or mitigate risk. Part of this step is to notify all personnel involved in
        the task to ensure they understand the potential risk and any actions they are required to
        take.

Section B—PROGRAM MANAGEMENT Forms Adopted.

6. Responsibilities.
     6.1. HQ AFMC Responsibilities.
        6.1.1. HQ AFMC/A1 will assist AFMC installations and MAJCOM staff with their
        ORM training efforts to include tracking and funding.
        6.1.2. HQ AFMC/SE serves as the advocate for ORM as a risk management tool for all
        operations. They will institutionalize ORM into safety directives as an effective way of
        promoting risk reduction.
        6.1.3. HQ AFMC/SE serves as the point of contact for scheduling the Operational Risk
        Management Application and Integration Course (ORM A&I) Level 1 ORM training.
        6.1.4. HQ AFMC/IG will inspect all Center/Wing-level ORM programs based on the
        criteria provided by each AFMC directorate.
        6.1.5. All AFMC two-letter directors should determine the need for additional inspection
        criteria for their areas of responsibility. Additionally, AFMC two-letter directors will
        incorporate ORM fundamentals and tools into Command-wide policy directives as best
        serves the mission.
     6.2. Center/Wing/Unit Commanders will:
        6.2.1. Incorporate ORM steering committees into their AFOSH or ESOH council as
        appropriate to ensure ORM related issues are properly addressed.
        6.2.1. (AAC) The AAC ORM Steering Committee shall be incorporated into the AAC
        Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council.
           6.2.1.1. (Added-AAC) AAC/CV             is   the   AAC     ORM      Steering    Committee
           Chairperson.
           6.2.1.2. (Added-AAC) On behalf of AAC/CC/CV, AAC/SE will appoint the ORM
           Program Manager. The ORM Program Manager will communicate MAJCOM ORM
           guidance to unit ORM representatives.
           6.2.1.3. (Added-AAC) The AAC ORM Steering Committee is comprised of the
           following members or their designated representatives:
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                                        7


Table 6.1. AAC ORM Steering Committee.

      AAC Vice Commander, AAC/CV (Chair)
      AAC Director of Safety, AAC/SE (Advisor)
      AFGE Local 1942
      96th Air Base Wing Commander, 96 ABW/CC
      46th Test Wing Commander, 46 TW/CC
      46th Operations Group Commander, 46 OG/CC
      46th Maintenance Group Commander, 46 MXG/CC
      46th Range Group Director, 46 RANG/CL
      96th Civil Engineering Group Commander, 96 CEG/CC
      96th Mission Support Group Commander, 96 MSG/CC
      96th Medical Group Commander, 96 MDG/CC
      96th Civil Engineering Group, Chief, Environmental Division, 96 CEG/CEV


      6.2.2. Advocate ORM as an effective risk management tool for all unit operations.
      6.2.3. Ensure training programs are available locally. Type and amount of training will
      be determined locally and meet the needs of the organization.
         6.2.3.1. Ensure all AF personnel receive at least an awareness level of ORM training.
         6.2.3.2. Ensure all Unit Safety Representatives (USRs) receive Level 2 – ORM
         Essentials for Leaders training.
         6.2.3.3. Ensure training is documented on the individuals AF Form 55, Employee
         Safety and Health Record or an approved database to include level of training
         received.
      6.2.4. Designate their safety staffs to be (or another agency if desired):
         6.2.4.1. The Center/Wing program manager for all installation ORM efforts.
         6.2.4.2. ORM trainers, usually at opportune courses such as Airman Leadership
         School and First Term Airman Centers, etc.
         6.2.4.3. Reviewers of all ORM training programs annually to ensure ORM training is
         tailored to the needs of personnel, to include subordinate units.
         6.2.4.4. Advocates of ORM as an excellent Safety tool for risk management on- and
         off-duty.
         6.2.4.5. The office that will monitor and assess (annually) the use of ORM processes
         by all Center/Wing organizations to ensure sustainment of active programs.
         6.2.4.5. (AAC) The effectiveness of a unit’s ORM processes is evaluated annually
         during the annual safety assessment.
         6.2.4.6. The office that recommends any needed support requirements to the
         Center/Wing Commander for funding or manning.
 8                                           AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


        6.2.5. Establish working groups and IPTs as needed to support and guide Center/Wing
        implementation and integration of ORM processes throughout all AFMC organizations.
        6.2.6. The Center/Wing ORM program manager will provide an annual summary report
        to the Center/Wing Commander for endorsement and forwarding to the HQ AFMC ORM
        Program Manager within 30 calendar days of the end of the fiscal year or included with
        AFOSH/ESOH council minutes (end of FY). Sample report guidance is included as
        attachment 2.
        6.2.6. (AAC) Unit ORM representatives will submit a data call to the AAC ORM
        Program Manager NLT 30 September using the guidance in AFMCI 90-902, Attachment
        3, to include the number of unit personnel trained. The AAC ORM Program Manager
        will consolidate and prepare the annual summary for inclusion into the AAC ESOHC
        minutes and submit to MAJCOM upon AAC/CC/CV endorsement.
        6.2.7. Ensure the HQ AFMC ORM Program Manager is added to the distribution list for
        Center/Wing ORM steering committee minutes (Note: To minimize organizational
        impact, ORM steering committee meetings may be held in conjunction with other
        meetings).
        6.2.8. Ensure opportunities identified by ORM processes and noteworthy ORM
        applications are forwarded to the HQ AFMC ORM Program Manager for lessons
        learned/cross tell purposes.
     6.3. HQ AFMC and Center/Wing directorates or functional managers responsible for
     educational and training programs will:
        6.3.1. Ensure appropriate inputs are provided to AETC for ORM-related course
        development and integration for AETC provided training.
        6.3.2. Integrate ORM principles, concepts, and techniques into all Center and Command
        level education and training programs (i.e., squadron Commanders’ and supervisors’
        courses), as appropriate.
     6.4. Training. Center/Wing Commanders and HQ AFMC directors will ensure all
     personnel receive appropriate ORM training. ORM education and training will begin with the
     initial awareness and progress in a building-block manner that is supportive of the goals
     outlined in AFI 90-901. ORM training may be provided by functional area instructors,
     contractors or installation-level instructors, or via computer-based training software, as
     Commanders/Directors determine appropriate. Sample course materials for the following
     courses are available for download and tailoring at the AFSC ORM web site -
     https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/training.asp. Attachment 4 identifies the topics required for
     each level of training. ORM training shall be documented locally for all those trained at the
     different levels and statistics included as part of the annual summary.
        6.4.1. Training will be tailored to the unit’s needs and functions being performed by the
        unit. The unit will ensure the appropriate level of training is available for their personnel
        as defined below:
Level 1 - ORM Applications Course for Instructors/Advisors/Facilitators/Program Managers,
and POCs. This is the highest level of training and consists of attendance at the AFSC ORM
applications trainer course, or as taught locally using tailored AFSC course materials, AFPAM
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                                              9


90-902 and Level 1 trained instructors. Completion qualifies an individual as an
advisor/facilitator/instructor on ORM processes.

NOTE: An acceptable alternative training approach is to use the ORM Essentials for Leaders
course (listed below) as a training baseline, then add one or more "modules" of additional
information (covering the information in the AFSC applications trainer course). This approach
allows supervisors and managers to enhance their knowledge of ORM processes and participate
as instructors/facilitators/advisors.

Level 2 - ORM Essentials for Leaders – This training uses the AFSC-developed course materials
or locally developed equivalent, tailored for supervisors and managers, on applying ORM
processes to their operations. After an appropriate period of applying ORM processes to daily
activities, and at the discretion of the organization’s functional manager, Level 2 trained
individuals may provide Level 3 fundamental ORM training to their workforce. See paragraph
6.4.2. for further guidance.

Level 3 - Fundamentals Course - This course provides basic ORM training for non-supervisory
personnel, and is typically provided by supervisors/managers. Accompanied by simplified
examples applicable to the employee's job, this training is designed to provide non-supervisory
personnel a working knowledge of ORM processes. Course materials should be tailored to
mission needs. ORM Fundamentals Training Documentation: Individual ORM Fundamentals
Course training requirement and completion updates must be made in ETMS Web via the
Functional Training Module by each organization training focal point/manager.

Level 4 - ORM Executive Leaders Session - Materials designed to assist with executive level
ORM training for senior executives (typically Commanders, deputies, and branch chiefs at O-
6/GS-15/NSPS equivalent) as an aid to: understanding the processes in use within their
organizations, the benefits and limitations of current processes, and the opportunities possible
with enhanced risk management processes. Senior executives are not expected to train others in
ORM processes. Completion of ORM Applications Course for Instructors/Advisors/Facilitators
or ORM Essentials for Leaders course (Level 1 or 2 training, respectively) also satisfies the
requirement for Level 4 training.
       6.4.2. As an ORM program matures and ORM processes are fully integrated in all
       operations within an organization, newcomers to the organization will learn to effectively
       manage risk through exposure to day-to-day processes and operations. At this point,
       organizations should assess the need to continue separate ORM training courses. ORM
       training courses can be reinstated when warranted. The need for annual refresher ORM
       training is determined by the individual unit/organization. See paragraph 6.5.10 for
       further guidance.
   6.5. Organizational     Requirements      (Center/Wing/HQ       AFMC      Directorates    and
   subordinate units).
       6.5.1. Support Commander involvement as described in paragraph 6.2.1.
       6.5.2. Integrate an ORM program, consistent with the Center implementation, integration
       and sustainment plan, throughout the organization. Document the program and monitor
       the integration progress.
10                                         AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


     6.5.3. Appoint and train ORM Facilitators/Advisors, program monitors and unit POCs
     (at least two per organization) to oversee and assist with ORM implementation within the
     organization. Exception: Extremely small organizations, i.e., Historian, Chaplain, etc.,
     may request an exemption to this requirement from the Center/Wing or HQ AFMC ORM
     Program Manager, as appropriate. See Paragraph 6.4.
        6.5.3.1. (Added-AAC) Unit Safety Representatives may also be appointed as Unit
        ORM Representatives to fulfill the functions of ORM Facilitators/Advisors and
        program monitors.
     6.5.4. Inform the Commander regarding any program shortfalls within the organization
     and document corrective action.
     6.5.5. Ensure organizational policies are in place for making risk decisions at the
     appropriate level: First-line supervisor; Director; Squadron, Wing, or Center Commander
     (the appropriate level for risk decisions is the one that can allocate the resources to reduce
     the risk, implement controls or eliminate the hazard).
     6.5.6. Make policy guidance readily available to all personnel and ensure that policy
     guidance and tasking required support ORM processes.
     6.5.7. Ensure all personnel receive appropriate ORM training and that documentation of
     this training is available for review.
     6.5.8. Ensure Individual ORM Fundamentals Course training requirement and
     completion updates are made in ETMS Web site via the Functional Training Module by
     each organization training focal point/manager.
     6.5.8. (AAC) Unit ORM training is evaluated annually, to include the number of
     personnel trained. See Attachment 1 for training courses and requirements. Computer
     based training is available through RMIS. The RMIS is provided by the AF Safety
     Center and can be accessed on-line at https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/index.asp.
     6.5.9. Promote the Individual use of the ORM principles and processes to help their
     personnel manage risk in daily activities, both on- and off-duty (see paragraph 5, ORM
     Three Step Process).
     6.5.10. Ensure supervisors provide supplemental mission and workplace specific ORM
     training to personnel on an as-needed basis (i.e. for job or mission changes).
     6.5.11. Perform annual (minimum requirement) assessments of organizational ORM
     programs, using attached checklist (Atch 3). Note: Organizations may add items to the
     checklist as needed to assure a thorough assessment.
  6.6. Program Sustainment. The goal of ORM is to reach a point where every leader,
  Airman and employee effectively manages risk in all they do, both on- and off-duty. A
  successful ORM program will accomplish the following four general tasks:
     6.6.1. Institutionalize ORM.
     6.6.2. Properly train all personnel at the required level of responsibility.
     6.6.3. Integrate ORM into all aspects of all operations.
     6.6.4. Apply ORM for both peacetime and deployed operations.
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                             11


7. Center/Wing ORM Programs. Shall be designed to sustain the use of ORM processes as
the normal, accepted way of managing risk.


8. (Added) (AAC) Forms Adopted.
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        STEPHEN L. HUFFMAN, Colonel, USAF
                                        Director of Safety

                                        (AAC)

                                        MICHAEL J. GUIDRY, Col, USAF
                                        Director of Safety
 12                                       AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools
AFMCPA 63- 101, Acquisition Risk Management
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standards

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMCPA—Air Force Materiel Command Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—-Air Force Safety Center
ANG—Air National Guard
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ—Headquarters
IPT—Integrated Product Team
MAJCOM—Major Command
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PDO—Publications Distribution Office
USAF—United States Air Force
WWW—World-wide Web

Terms
ACT—Abbreviated ORM Process
ORM Advisor—Organization level ORM focal point who serves as advisor to Commanders,
managers, supervisors, and etc. on ORM policy, application, and training.
ORM Program Manager—Center/Wing-level ORM focal point who manages all phases of the
local ORM program requirements for the center/wing commander.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)—The systematic process of identifying threats,
hazards or impediments, assessing risk, analyzing risk control options and measures, making
control decisions, implementing control decisions, accepting residual risks, and
supervising/reviewing actions for effectiveness.
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                                        13


Risk—The probability and severity of loss or adverse impact from exposure to various threats or
hazards.
Risk Assessment—The process of detecting threats or hazards and their causes, and
systematically evaluating the probably of occurrence and the potential severity, should they
occur.
System—A composite, at any level of complexity, of personnel, procedures, materials, tools,
equipment, facilities, and software. The elements of this composite entity are used together in
the intended operational or support environment to perform a given task or achieve a specific
mission requirement.
Systematic Risk Management—Risk management is the systematic application of management
and engineering principles, criteria and tools, to optimize all aspects of safety within the
constraints of operational effectiveness, time, and cost throughout all mission phases. To apply
the systemic risk management process, the composite of hardware, procedures, and people that
accomplish the mission or produce mishaps must be viewed as a system.
 14                                        AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


                                Attachment 1 (ADDED) (AAC)
                      ORM TRAINING REQUIREMENTS MATRIX

Table A1.1. TRAINING REQUIREMENTS MATRIX
                                    Initial
ORM Training     Applies To                       Recurrence      Source         Exemptions
                                    Training
Level-1
                                    Within 90     One time
Applications     ORM Focal                                        -ORM
                                    days of       (once in                       None
and              Points                                           University
                                    appointment   career)
integration
                 Military and       Within 90
                 Government         days of
Level-2                                                                          Prior
                 Civilian           supervisory                   -ORM
Essentials for                                    One time                       completion of
                 Supervisors,       status, or                    University
Leaders                                                                          level 1
                 Unit Safety        appointment
                 Representatives    as USR
                                                                  -ORM
                                                                  University
                                                                  - Supervisor
                 All Military
Level-3                             Within 30                     with level 2   Prior
                 and
ORM                                 days of       One time        and            completion of
                 Government
Fundamentals                        assignment                    Applications   level 1,2 or 4
                 Civilians
                                                                  and
                                                                  Integration
                                                                  module
                 Commanders,
Level-4
                 deputies and
Executive                           Within 90                                    Prior
                 branch chiefs at                                 -ORM
Leaders                             days of       One time                       completion of
                 0-6/GS-                                          University
session                             appointment                                  level 1 or 2
                 15/NSPS
                 equivalent
                 Optional for
Level-5          All Military       Within 30     Annually (365
Shop Specific    and                days of       day re-         Supervisor     Optional
ORM              Government         assignment    occurring)
                 Civilians
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                                         15


                                         Attachment 2
            RECOMMENDED ORM ANNUAL SUMMARY REPORT ITEMS

1. AFMCI 90-902, Paragraph 6.2.5., requires the Center/Wing ORM program manager provide
an annual summary report to the Center/Wing Commander or included with AFOSH/ESOH
council minutes (end of FY). The report, when endorsed by the Center/Wing Commander, is
then forwarded to the AFMC ORM Program Manager within 30 calendar days of the end of the
fiscal year. The following list is provided to assist Centers/Wings in developing complete and
uniform reports, yet allow Centers/Wings the most flexibility in implementing an ORM program.
To provide a complete picture of a Center’s/Wing’s ORM program, the report should include,
but is not limited to, the following items:

   a. Center/Wing Steering committee (see paragraph 6.2.1.) actions and accomplishments -
      (1) Current committee membership.
      (2) Any subgroups or working groups established, and their progress.
      (3) Describe the Center/Wing implementation plan (include a copy with annual report)
and subparts relating to implementing ORM at the Center/Wing.
      (4) Budgets – general accounting of funds allocated and how spent.
      (5) Other accomplishments.

   b. Center/Wing training efforts -
       (1) Training materials produced or in work (please include samples when available).
       (2) Identify number of people trained and level of training provided, broken out by
organization. Also, as training is an extended process, include the rationale for selecting and
scheduling training for these organizations.
       (3) Training plan for current Fiscal Year (FY) and beyond (number of courses, by level,
by quarter) and include the rationale for selecting and scheduling organizations/attendees.
   c. Successful applications -
       (1) List a sampling of areas and topics where ORM processes have been successfully
applied, and lessons learned from those applications.
       (2) Number of successful applications passed on to, or received from, other
Centers/Wings

(NOTE: A successful application need not have originated at your Center/Wing. We encourage
crosstalk with other Centers/Wings and adoption of applications from other Centers/Wings
where appropriate).

      (3) Side benefits noted, like productivity enhancements, fewer mishaps, or environmental
improvements.
   d. Problem areas -
      (1) Difficulties affecting development and implementation of Center/Wing ORM
program.
 16                                        AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


      (2)   Impeding organizational, Center/Wing or higher headquarter guidance.
      (3)   Training deficiencies or lack of training capabilities.
      (4)   Funding shortfalls.
      (5)   Other areas posing problems which could impact complete program implementation

(NOTE: Include corrective action, either planned or implemented, for each problem).
   e. Resource needs -
       (1) Resource requirements as determined by the Center/Wing ORM steering committee
and could involve funding, facilities, people, or guidance.
       (2) As Centers/Wings are in various stages of implementing ORM programs, another
facet would be any surplus resources which could be used by another organization or
Center/Wing.
   f. Future plans -
       (1) Describe expected changes or enhancements to the Center/Wing implementation plan
or program, and the approximate dates, if known.
   g. Miscellaneous -
       (1) Center, Wing, or directorate comments, if any.
       (2) Summary of feedback from facilitators/supervisors/workers, or metrics.
       (3) Questions or requests for AFMC assistance.
       (4) Interfaces with other commands or services.

2. This report should provide the Center/Wing Commander and HQ AFMC ORM Safety
Director a complete picture of ORM implementation at each Center/Wing. It should enable the
HQ AFMC ORM Program Manager to determine if any changes to the AFMC ORM program
are necessary and to assist individual Centers/Wings with local issues. Please feel free to add
other information as necessary to describe your program.
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                17


                                      Attachment 3
                             ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST

Figure A3.1. All Purpose Checklist (Page 1).
 18                                     AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


Figure A3.2. All Purpose Checklist (Page 2).
AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007                                  19


                                        Attachment 4
                REQUIRED TOPICS FOR ORM TRAINING COURSES

Level 1 – ORM Instructor/Advisor/Facilitator Training

  - ORM Concepts, Principles and Process
  - The Six-Step ORM Process
  - Identify the Hazards
  - Assess the Risks
  - Analyze the Risk Control Measures
  - Make Control Decisions
  - Implement Risk Controls
  - Supervise and Review
  - Introduce AFPAM 90-902, AFI 90-901, AFMCI 90-902
  - USAF Implementation Strategy and Status
  - Application of Tools
  - Identify the Hazards
  - Assess the Risks
  - Risk Control Options
  - Decision Making
  - Implementation
  - Supervise and Review
  - Strategic ORM
  - Student Exercises Designed for Students to Apply the ORM Process

Level 2 (Supervisor and Manager) and Level 3 (Workforce) Training

  - ORM Concepts, Principles and Process
  - The Six-Step ORM Process
  - Identify the Hazards
  - Assess the Risks
  - Analyze the Risk Control Measures
  - Make Control Decisions
 20                                      AFMCI90-902_AACSUP_I 10 DECEMBER 2007


  - Implement Risk Controls
  - Supervise and Review
  - Introduce AFPAM 90-902, AFI 90-901, AFMCI 90-902
  - ORM Applications Pertinent to the Organization’s Work Environment
  - Student Exercises Designed for Students to Apply the ORM Process (Level 2 only)

Level 3 (Workforce) Training, should be tailored to the needs of the organization by the
supervisor

Level 4 Executive Overview

  - Overview of USAF ORM Program
  - Overview of The Six-Step ORM Process
  - Identify the Hazards
  - Assess the Risks
  - Analyze the Risk Control Measures
  - Make Control Decisions
  - Implement Risk Controls
  - Supervise and Review
