BY ORDER OF COMMANDER                                             AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIAL COMMAND                                                   INSTRUCTION 64-110
                                                                                            29 APRIL 1997

                                                                                                Contracting

                                                                      FIRST ARTICLE MANAGEMENT



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/PKP (Mr. John Berg)                                             Certified by: HQ AFMC/PKP
                                                                                     (Mr. Charlie Williams)
Supersedes AFMCI 64-110, 5 August 1994                                                             Pages: 6
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 64-1, The Contracting System. It establishes poli-
cies and procedures for application of first article inspection and approval requirements in contracts, and
for managing contracts that specify the use of Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 9.3, First
Article Testing and Approval. It applies to all AFMC units utilizing first article inspection requirements in
contracts, including those for foreign military sales. This instruction does not apply to the Air National
Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision corrects references to superseded documents and eliminates the requirement for local proce-
dures to implement this document.


1. Policy:
   1.1. Detailed policy on the use of first article inspection can be found in FAR Subpart 9.3, First Arti-
   cle Testing and Approval. Use first article inspection to verify that the contractor can provide an item
   manufactured to a qualified design. This applies to vendors as well as manufacturers; however, do not
   use first article requirements for products normally sold in the commercial market (as specified in
   FAR Subpart 9.304). Any first article solicitation or purchase document must contain detailed techni-
   cal requirements and adequate quality assurance provisions to ensure that the contractor is capable of
   furnishing or manufacturing the item. This information is normally defined in the configuration prod-
   uct baseline.
   1.2. Base the decision to require first article inspection on careful consideration of the following (as
   specified in FAR Subpart 9.302): technical aspects, cost of first article inspection, safety risk, impacts
   to delivery schedule, and other pertinent factors. First article is not the procedure used to qualify new
2                                                                        AFMCI64-110 29 APRIL 1997


    or modified designs. FAR Subparts 9.2 and 46.4 address qualification requirements and contract qual-
    ity assurance requirements.
    1.3. For first article inspection at contractor facilities, buying organizations should, when feasible,
    use Defense Contract Management Command Contract Administration Services (CAS), with a Qual-
    ity Assurance Letter of Instruction (QALI) or Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).
    1.4. Delegate contract administration according to Department of Defense FAR Supplement 242.203.

2. Field Activity Responsibilities. The commander, vice commander, or executive director of each cen-
ter and the director/deputy director of Air Force Office of Scientific Research shall implement this
instruction. It is the goal of this command to complete all first article inspections within an average of 75
workdays from receipt of the first article at the supply point of the government testing facilities through
approval/disapproval by the testing organization. All organizations will strive to meet this goal by sched-
uling resources and work assignments to accommodate prompt accomplishment of tasks associated with
first article inspection.
    2.1. Product Directorates and System Program Offices:
       2.1.1. The Responsible Systems Engineering Authority (RSEA) is responsible for the following
       actions which may be delegated to the equipment specialist, item manager, first article manager,
       system engineer, or other functional area as appropriate:
           2.1.1.1. Specify whether first article inspection is required using AFMC Form 761, AMC/
           AMSC Screening Analysis Worksheet. Consider impacts on cost, delivery dates and risk to
           the government of foregoing testing (including safety considerations). Give special attention
           to items with a history of excessive product or quality deficiency reports, or for which a Gov-
           ernment Industry Data Exchange Program alert has been issued.
           2.1.1.2. Review the specified first article inspection requirements to ensure the correct
           instructions for the required inspections are included in the purchase request (PR) according to
           AFMCI 23-102, Purchase Request (PR) Operations.
           2.1.1.3. Initiate the AFMC IMT 260, First Article Requirements, and attach it to the AMC/
           AMSC Screening Analysis Worksheet. Document the rationale for requiring first article
           inspection in the "Remarks" block. Specify whether first article inspection will be done by the
           government or the contractor on the AFMC IMT 260; identify the detailed requirements to
           which the first article will be subjected and reference the applicable configuration baseline
           specification; and specify whether Alternate I and/or Alternate II of FAR 52.209-3 or -4 are
           applicable. Consider Alternate II, if forgings or other long lead time items are required. The
           contracting officer (CO) will make the final determination regarding the use of Alternate II
           based on a review of contractor records and accounting systems.
           2.1.1.4. When AFMC does not have engineering responsibility, ensure RSEA inputs to AMC/
           AMSC Screening Analysis Worksheet and AFMC IMT 260 are complete, and necessary
           information is provided to the CO. Coordinate all engineering decisions with the government
           agency having engineering responsibility.
           2.1.1.5. Prepare and attach the QALI or MOA to the PR package if first article inspection will
           be done by the contractor and CAS support will be required. Provide necessary information to
AFMCI64-110 29 APRIL 1997                                                                                 3


        the buyer or CO for specifying inspection and acceptance locations if testing will be done at
        other than the manufacturer's facility (e.g., independent laboratory).
        2.1.1.6. Provide first article inspection requirements documentation (e.g., drawings, test
        plans, etc.) to the inspection activity for their use in completing the required testing/inspection.
        2.1.1.7. For J041 on-line remote system processing, ensure appropriate code is entered in the
        first article indicator field to identify specific first article requirements. See AFMCMAN
        64-104, Acquisition and Due-in System (ADIS) (J041), Volume 1, Attachment 3, Page 59.
        2.1.1.8. Determine if government facilities have the capacity and capability to do the inspec-
        tions, if government is responsible for inspection. Schedule those facilities to perform the
        inspection. Ensure the government facilities have the appropriate technical information.
        2.1.1.9. Provide assistance in obtaining the necessary support for first article inspection and/
        or testing at the government facility responsible for the first article inspection.
        2.1.1.10. Obtain coordination on testing requirements and schedule milestones from the
        responsible government test facility. Enter the name, office symbol and telephone number of
        the test organization point of contact in the remarks block of the AFMC IMT 260.
        2.1.1.11. Annotate (on the AFMC IMT 260) the necessary time for inspection report review
        and track milestones to ensure established schedules are met. If schedules cannot or will not
        be met, notify appropriate RSEA and the CO of schedule slippage and the reason for slippage,
        including a new estimated date of completion.
        2.1.1.12. Provide the CO with estimated costs for first article government inspection (AFMC
        IMT 260, block 9G). Estimated costs should include labor costs for government personnel to
        monitor and conduct tests (locally or at designated test facility), purchase of special tools or
        test equipment, transportation cost of first article to test site (excluding contractor expense),
        and any other applicable government costs. For contractor testing, include the cost of govern-
        ment evaluation of test reports.
        2.1.1.13. Coordinate efforts of materiel receiving and testing activities, when informed of first
        article receipt or pending delivery, to ensure inspections are completed within schedule.
        2.1.1.14. If first article fails to meet requirements, determine the impact on supply support.
        Consult with all affected activities and make a recommendation to the CO. Recommendation
        may include: conditional approval, pending corrective action; disapproval with required rein-
        spection; or contract termination.
        2.1.1.15. Provide status and disposition instructions for first articles, after completion of gov-
        ernment testing, as follows:
            2.1.1.15.1. First Article Approved (Not Destroyed in Testing). When the contract provides
            for the first article to be considered as part of the scheduled delivery quantity, arrange for
            appropriate acceptance signature on the DD Form 250, Materiel Inspection and Receiv-
            ing Report. The item shall be tagged as serviceable and forwarded to Central Receiving
            for placement in storage condition code A or returned to the contractor, if the approved
            first article is to be used as a manufacturing standard. Send written notification of satisfac-
            tory completion of first article inspection and the evaluation of the test results to the pro-
            curing CO with a copy to the RSEA.
4                                                                           AFMCI64-110 29 APRIL 1997


               2.1.1.15.2. First Article Destroyed or Left Installed After Government Testing. Provide a
               letter to the CO stating the disposition of the first article or, if applicable, a certificate of
               destruction. Forward a copy to the center supply organization.
               2.1.1.15.3. Conditional Approval. Provide a list of all discrepancies, which must be cor-
               rected, an engineering assessment of the contractor's ability to provide the item, and the
               rationale for conditional approval, to the CO. Annotate the disposition of the first article
               on the appropriate tag (serviceable, unserviceable, return to contractor), and arrange for
               acceptance signature on DD Form 250. Conditional approval is discouraged unless it is in
               the government's best interest (i.e., deficiencies are minor in nature and do not affect form,
               fit or function). Follow-up to ensure contractor correction of deficiencies is cost effective.
               2.1.1.15.4. First Article Rejected or First Article Inspection Report Not Approved. Notify
               the RSEA and the CO of the reasons for the rejection or disapproval and provide the fol-
               lowing information:
                   2.1.1.15.4.1. Document inspection results, including all discrepancies, whether they
                   are critical, major or minor.
                   2.1.1.15.4.2. Detailed description of the discrepancies and a recommendation regard-
                   ing whether the contractor should be permitted to submit another article for inspection
                   (considering cost and schedule). If failure appears to be due to incorrect, inadequate,
                   or incomplete government data, so state.
                   2.1.1.15.4.3. An itemized listing of the actual government test and evaluation costs
                   associated with the first article to enable the CO to determine that the costs are properly
                   chargeable to the contractor.
           2.1.1.16. Advise the CO of required changes if the first article inspection identifies specifica-
           tion/ drawing deficiencies or inadequacies in the contract technical requirements. Provide cor-
           rections to the CO as soon as possible to ensure timely modifications to the contract. Inform
           the CO and RSEA of estimated impact on delivery schedule and price.
       2.1.2. Systems Engineering Authority. PRs valued at $25,000 or less, which specify first article
       inspection, will be evaluated and the need for first article will be validated by RSEA at least one
       level higher than the requesting authority. First article inspection should not be requested when
       the first article is the only deliverable item of its type on the PR.
    2.2. Contracting Responsibilities:
       2.2.1. Function as the field focal point for first article inspection as follows:
           2.2.1.1. When PRs are received which identify first article inspection requirements, incorpo-
           rate appropriate requirements (as specified in FAR Subpart 9.306) in solicitations and con-
           tracts, including the schedule for first article submission, first article test reports (if required),
           and contractor or government milestone schedules. Add 5 workdays for processing and mail-
           ing results to the schedule for completing government evaluation specified on the AFMC
           IMT 260.
           2.2.1.2. When contractor inspection is designated, determine whether Alternate I and/or
           Alternate II of FAR Subpart 52.209-3 are applicable based on a review of contractor records
           and ensure appropriate contract administration delegations have been included.
AFMCI64-110 29 APRIL 1997                                                                                5


        2.2.1.3. Provide a copy of all contracts/ modifications containing first article test requirements
        (and all pertinent correspondence) to the RSEA, at the same time they are sent to the contrac-
        tor.
        2.2.1.4. Notify the contractor and Contract Administration Office upon receipt of the engi-
        neering organization's notification of first article approval, conditional approval or rejection.
        Include authorization to begin production with the approval notification, when applicable.
        When conditional approval is authorized, identify the deficiencies which must be corrected
        before delivery of production items. When the first article has been rejected with approval for
        resubmission, indicate the reason for rejection, desired schedule for resubmission, and the esti-
        mated additional cost to the government for additional testing. When resubmission is autho-
        rized, the CO should require an equitable reduction of contract price for any change of the
        delivery schedule and additional testing/approval costs. When the first article has been
        rejected without approval for resubmission, send the reasons for rejection with the notification
        of possible termination action. Unless otherwise provided for in the contract, removal and dis-
        position of an item failing first article inspection is at the contractor's expense. Provide dispo-
        sition instructions for failed first articles to the item/system manager or first article manager
        and distribution or supply activity within 15 workdays after notification of test failure.
        2.2.1.5. Ensure reasonable delivery dates are negotiated and that proper consideration is
        received from the contractor if the first articles or contractor prepared test reports are delin-
        quent.
        2.2.1.6. Manage all first article contracts; monitor all first article delivery/inspection sched-
        ules, and follow up on all delinquencies. Use bimonthly ADIS reports to track each first arti-
        cle contract delivery requirement and update to reflect any changes in contract delivery
        schedules. Notify the RSEA when first articles or test reports will not be delivered according
        to the terms of the contract.
        2.2.1.7. Maintain a list of all first article contracts and appropriate management information
        (such as contract number, delivery dates, testing schedule, special inspection requirements,
        etc.). Listing should be maintained at an appropriate level within the organization to ensure
        effective tracking and contract administration.
        2.2.1.8. Entry of appropriate code in the J041 first article indicator field will facilitate man-
        agement of delivery/inspection requirements. Reference AFMCMAN 64-104, Volume 1,
        Attachment 3, for available codes.
  2.3. Distribution and Supply Responsibilities. Establish procedures to ensure control over the
  receipt and processing of first article items according to the Master MOA dated 10 April 1991,
  between the Defense Logistics Agency and the Department of the Air Force and with local agree-
  ments. Include the following requirements:
     2.3.1. Expedite delivery of the items to the appropriate location as determined by engineering.
     2.3.2. Notify the CO and RSEA when first articles are returned from the inspection activity. Pro-
     cess items for storage or return to the contractor as directed by the CO.
     2.3.3. Process serviceable items (condition code "A") to accountable records after receipt from
     the inspection organization. Unserviceable items (condition code "J") will be processed for
     release via shipment to the contractor after direction is provided by the CO.
6                                                                       AFMCI64-110 29 APRIL 1997


       2.3.4. Refer to AFM 67-1,USAF Supply Manual, volume III, part two, chapter 4, for additional
       detailed instructions pertaining to first article receipt processing.
    2.4. Maintenance and Inspection Facilities Responsibilities:
       2.4.1. Provide technical support, to include first article inspection, when requested.
       2.4.2. Immediately notify the RSEA and CO if difficulties or delays are expected to prevent com-
       pletion of first article testing according to the established schedule, and provide expected comple-
       tion date.
    2.5. Safety Office. Provide technical support to first article inspection to ensure compliance with
    established safety and operational requirements.

3. IMT Prescribed. AFMC IMT 260.



                                               RICHARD H. ROELLIG, Major General, USAF
                                               Director of Contracting
