BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 51-101

                                                                                11 APRIL 2008
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 19 November 2014
                                                          Certified Current On 24 October 2014
                                                                                          Law

                                                    LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMC/JAA                                                      Certified by: HQ AFMC/A8/9
                                                                          (Col Ronald R. Ratton)
Supersedes:    AFMCI51-101,                                                             Pages: 3
               17 April 1995


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-1, The Judge Advocate
General’s Department. It provides guidance and procedures on creating, managing, and
disseminating directive and nondirective publications and forms throughout the Air Force. It
applies to individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, disseminate
and/or use official Air Force publications and forms, including the Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard (ANG), except where noted otherwise. This AFI may be supplemented at any
level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to SAF/AAII
Policy Branch for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms
847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1,
T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                AFMCI51-101 11 APRIL 2008


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFMCI 51-101 by updating the opening paragraph and assigning the
applicable Tier waiver designation. This Instruction requires a (T-3) waiver authority. A margin
bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Process Initiation. AFMC/JA will send out periodic requests, at least annually, to HQ
AFMC two-letter Directorates for legislative initiative proposals. The request will include
submission requirements, as necessary, including formatting requirements. The Directorates
(including JA) shall in turn solicit proposals from their own respective field offices on topics
within their functional areas. Proposals will be accepted on a rolling basis. The absence of a hard
suspense deadline enables the initiating office to establish its own internal suspense and procure
written positive support of the proposed legislative change from their Air Staff functional
counterpart as described in paragraph 2. AFMC/JA will include submission requirements in the
request, including formatting requirements, utilizing the most current requirements published by
SAF/LL.
2. Sponsoring Directorate.
     2.1. The HQ AFMC two-digit directorate with functional area responsibility over the subject
     matter of the proposed legislation shall be the evaluator and sponsor of that proposal.
     Evaluators should apply a four part test:
        2.1.1. Is a change in federal law required?
        2.1.2. Does the proposal appear to have merit?
        2.1.3. Is the proposal likely to receive support from HHQ?
        2.1.4. Does the proposal duplicate a proposal previously submitted?
     2.2. If the sponsoring directorate’s evaluation leads to a conclusion that the proposal should
     not be pursued, then no further action is required on that proposal.
     2.3. If the sponsoring directorate’s evaluation concludes the proposal should be pursued
     further, then that directorate will seek written coordination from its Air Staff functional area
     counterpart. If favorable written coordination cannot be obtained, then no further action will
     be taken on that proposal.
     2.4. If favorable written coordination is obtained as discussed above in paragraph 2.3, the
     sponsoring directorate will then submit the proposal, along with coordination documentation,
     to HQ AFMC/JA.
3. HQ AFMC/JA Role.
     3.1. HQ AFMC/JA verifies that proposals meet specified form requirements for eventual
     submission to SAF/LL. If the proposal fails to meet current standards, HQ AFMC/JA returns
     the proposal to the sponsoring directorate for corrective action.
     3.2. HQ AFMC/JA will staff proposals for coordination by HQ AFMC staff and will
     forward coordinated proposals to AFMC/CC for approval and submission to the appropriate
     Air Staff functional sponsor.
AFMCI51-101 11 APRIL 2008                                                                      3


  3.3. Following selection by AFMC/CC, AFMC/JA forwards the proposals through the
  functional two-letter Directorate to its Air Staff functional area counterpart, and will
  periodically track progression of the proposals through to enactment, or other disposition that
  may occur.




                                           DAVID G. EHRHART, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Staff Judge Advocate
