BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              AFMC INSTRUCTION 61-101
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                               14 JULY 2000
                                                                        Certified Current, 3 November 2010
                                                                 Scientific/Research and Development

                                                    SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH
                                                       (SBIR) PROGRAM AND SMALL BUSINESS
                                                    TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (STTR) PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AFRL/XPTT (Rebecca L. Hobrook)                      Certified by: AFRL/XPT (Terry L. Neighbor)
Supersedes AFMCI61-101, 1 Feb 95                                                           Pages: 5
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFMCPD 61-1, Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program. It
establishes instruction and procedures for the Air Force SBIR and STTR Programs. This publication
applies to Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), Aeronautical Systems Center, Electronic Systems
Center, Air Armament Systems Center, Space and Missiles Systems Center, Arnold Engineering and
Development Center, Air Force Flight Test Center, Ogden Air Logistics Center, Oklahoma City Air
Logistics Center, and Warner Robins Air Logistics Center. It does not apply to the Air National Guard or
to the US Air Force Reserve units and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction updates program authority under the Air Force Technology Executive Officer and incor-
porates the latest policy memorandums from the Office of the Secretary of Defense for Acquisition.


1. Purpose of This Instruction. The Air Force SBIR and STTR programs are designed to stimulate
technological innovation, use small business to meet federal Research and Development (R&D) needs,
increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from federal R&D, and foster and
encourage disadvantaged and women-owned businesses to participate in the SBIR program.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The AFRL is the office of primary responsibility for the Air Force SBIR and STTR Programs
   under the authority of the Air Force Technology Executive Officer as designated by the policies and
   procedures developed jointly by SAF/AQX and SAF/AQR. AFRL will assign the Air Force program
   manager.
       2.1.1. The Air Force Program Manager will be responsible for the overall execution of the SBIR
       and STTR programs on behalf of the Air Force. The manager will be the team leader for the Air
       Force SBIR Program Management Team.
2                                                                        AFMCI61-101 14 JULY 2000


    2.2. AFMC technical activities (each AFRL Technology Directorate, AFMC Product Center, Test
    Center, and Logistics Center) will assign a local SBIR program manager as a primary duty. Their
    respective contracting officers (CO) will be responsible for the designated procurement activities for
    each participating organization according to the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
       2.2.1. The program manager will be responsible for the daily execution of the SBIR and STTR
       program and will report all activities through the Air Force Program Management Team.
    2.3. AFMC/FM will be responsible for distributing SBIR and STTR funds in compliance with the
    issued budget authority and in accordance with instructions from the AF SBIR Program Management
    Team.

3. SBIR Awards Three Phase Competitive Process:
    3.1. Phase I will determine the scientific or technical merit and feasibility of ideas, which will have
    the potential to lead into Phase II, submitted against the SBIR solicitation.
    3.2. Phase II will be a continuance of Phase I, providing the principal R&D effort, and will be
    expected to produce a well-defined deliverable product or process. A limited number of Phase II
    awards may be extended under the Phase II Enhancement Program.
    3.3. Phase III may involve follow-on R&D, commercial application, or production funding agree-
    ments in the private sector or with a federal agency using non-SBIR funds.

4. Major Program Milestones:
    4.1. Call for Topics. AFRL requests a given number of topics and backups from each participating
    organization based on an estimate of the following year's budget. The request will include the sched-
    ule of activities leading to the OSD review and approval cycle.
    4.2. DOD SBIR Solicitation. AFRL coordinates with Army, Navy, and Office of the Secretary of
    Defense SBIR program managers to write the tri-service portion of the solicitation. AFRL then inde-
    pendently compiles the Air Force topics received from participating organizations and writes an Air
    Force introduction for inclusion in the solicitation.
    4.3. Phase I Proposals. Small businesses wishing to respond to any of these solicited topics submit
    proposals according to the format and deadline in the solicitation. The technical evaluation and selec-
    tion of proposals for awards are done by the participating AFMC organizations.
    4.4. Phase I Contract Awards. Purchase requests (PR) are prepared for the selected proposals and sent
    to the appropriate contracting office. The procurement CO initiates actions that will lead to contract
    awards in a reasonable length of time. Awarding the Phase I contracts should normally be completed
    within 4 to 6 months from the closing date specified in the solicitation.
    4.5. Phase II Proposals. A Phase II proposal can be submitted only by a Phase I awardee and only in
    response to a request from the Air Force. The participating organization will evaluate the proposal on
    overall merit.
    4.6. Phase II Contract Awards. Phase II selections, when made by the participating organization, will
    be sent to the contracting office where action will be taken to make contract awards in a timely man-
    ner. Awarding the Phase II contracts should normally be completed within 6 months of the date of the
    proposal.
AFMCI61-101 14 JULY 2000                                                                                    3


   4.7. Special Emphasis Programs. The Air Force will support various DOD special emphasis programs
   (examples: Fast Track and Phase II Enhancement Program) under SBIR and STTR. The Air Force
   Program Manager is responsible for establishing guidance and procedures and the local field offices
   are responsible for executing these programs.
   4.8. Phase III. Successful Phase II efforts are likely to continue on to application in the private or pub-
   lic sector. Phase III efforts are not funded by the SBIR program. The small business contractor is
   entirely responsible for marketing and selling the technology.

5. SBIR Program Budget:
   5.1. Funding for the program will be determined at the beginning of each FY in accordance with con-
   gressional intent and direction. Presently, 2.5 percent of the extramural research and development
   budget is dedicated for the SBIR program, .15 percent for STTR, and .01 percent for administering
   both programs.
   5.2. The annual budget will reside in program element 65502F managed by AFRL. All SBIR and
   STTR program funds will be distributed to the laboratory technology directorates and centers based
   on the level of activity and adjusted according to the capability of the program to use the funds effec-
   tively. AFRL will be solely responsible for determining the exact amounts to be distributed. The
   administrative monies will be managed by AFRL.



                                                      JAMES R. HEALD, Colonel, USAF
                                                      AFRL, Vice Commander
4                                                                    AFMCI61-101 14 JULY 2000


                                           Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

References
SBA Policy directive 65-01, Small Business Innovation Research Program, 26 Jan 95 (supercedes previ-
ous versions)
Public Law 97-219, Small Business Innovation Development (SBID) Act of 1982, 22 Jul 82
Public Law 99-443, SBIR Continuing Resolution Authority, 6 Oct 86
Public Law 102-564, Small Business Technology Transfer Act of 1992, 28 Oct 92
AFPD 61-1, Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR)
Programs, Draft updated 20 Mar 2000
AFRLI 61-101, Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer
(STTR) Programs, Draft updated 24 Apr 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
DAC—Designated Acquisition Commander
DDDR&E—Deputy Director Defense Research and Engineering
PEO—Program Executive Office
SADBU—Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization Office
SAF/AQR—Deputy Assistant Secretary for Acquisition (Science, Technology and Engineering)
SBA—Small Business Administration
SBIR—Small Business Innovation Research
SPO—System Program Office
STTR—Small Business Technology Transfer
TEO—Technology Executive Officer

Terms
Air Force SBIR Program Management Team—The Air Force Office (the Air Force SBIR Program
Manager and staff) responsible for implementing this policy directive and its instructions.
AFMC Technical Activities—This refers to all non-AFRL organizations that participate in the AF SBIR
and STTR program. For example it includes the product, test, and logistics centers.
Commercialization—The process of developing markets and producing and delivering products for sale
(whether by the originating party or by others); as used here, commercialization includes both
government and commercial markets.
AFMCI61-101 14 JULY 2000                                                                                    5


DoD SBIR Solicitation—Request for proposals, issued by DoD, containing requirements for each
service, instructions for proposals, evaluation criteria, and contractual considerations. This solicitation is
advertised in the Commerce Business Daily.
Extramural Budget—Total obligations for R&D minus amounts obligated for R&D activities by
employees of the agency in or through government-owned, government-operated facilities.
Funding Agreement—Any contract or cooperative agreement with any federal agency for
developmental or research work funded in whole or in part by the federal government.
Research and Development—
 Basic Research—Fundamental theoretical or experimental investigation to advance scientific
knowledge.
 Exploratory Development—A systematic study directed specifically toward applying new knowledge
to meet a recognized need.
 Advanced Development or Engineering Development—A systematic application of knowledge
toward the production of useful materials, devices, and systems or methods, including design,
development, and improvement of prototypes and of new processes to meet specific requirements.
Small Business—A small business is one that, at the time of award of Phase I and Phase II funding
agreements, meets the following criteria:
   a. Is independently owned and operated, is not dominant in the field of operation in which it is pro-
      posing, has its principal place of business located in the United States, and is organized for profit.
   b. Is at least 51 percent owned or, in the case of a publicly-owned business, at least 51 percent of its
      voting stock is owned by US citizens or lawfully admitted permanent resident aliens.
   c. Has, including its affiliates, a number of employees not exceeding 500 and meets the other regula-
      tory requirements in 13 CFR Part 121.
Technical Point of Contact—The technical individual in the AFRL Technology Directorate or AFMC
technical activity who will monitor the SBIR contract technical activity and manage the Air Force portion
of the project.
