BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 21-118

                                                                                  9 MAY 2012

                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                           AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE
                                                  PRODUCTION/COMPRESSION REPORT
                                                                         (AMREP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A4DE                                                Certified by: HQ AFMC/A4D
                                                                             (Mr. Brian Burks)
                                                                                     Pages: 21
Supersedes:   AFMCI21-118, 6 June 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1 Air and Space
Maintenance and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 16-402 Aerospace Vehicle Programming,
Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and Termination. It explains the procedures for entering
and updating the Aircraft Maintenance Production/Compression Report (AMREP) System
(A030D), outlines responsibility for data entry, and addresses exercise management. The
AMREP System provides AFMC, HQ USAF, and owning commands with the status of aircraft
undergoing depot level maintenance at all DoD, AF, contractor, and other commercial repair
facilities. It provides annual production plans based on project directives and scheduled
completion date, and provides users the capability to complete detailed Root Cause analysis.
This instruction is applicable to the Air Force Reserve Command and the Air National Guard.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command to HQ AFMC/A4DE. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial, product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                                  AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision to AFMCI 21-118 clarifies and further defines AMREP system roles and
responsibilities, schedule change process, system documentation and records deletions, Due Date
Performance (DDP) measures & standards, Assessment Period, annual production plan, removal
of 5 day early/late window and new terminologies. A process to address requests beyond the
authorized two changes was added to accommodate extenuating situations. The Depot Possessed
Report (RCS: HAF-ILM (M) 0102) requirement and Days Held Index metric has been removed.

Section A—Background

1. Introduction. This instruction provides guidance and procedures and identifies
responsibilities for input and maintenance of the data in the AMREP System (A030D). It also
confers policy for reporting weapon systems such as aircraft, both fixed and rotary wing and
Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) in a depot maintenance status, scheduling of aircraft back to the
user, and the operation and use of the AMREP System during exercises and contingencies.
AMREP data is used to measure overall AFMC weapon system support. This instruction applies
to organic, contract and partnership activities; it outlines aircraft metrics definitions and
reporting requirements. These requirements are defined and explained in Attachment 3.
2. Purpose. The purpose of the AMREP System is to document the status of aircraft possessed
by AFMC (to include AFMC contractors, partnership and other DoD activities) for the various
depot maintenance repair activities, engineering evaluation, or other related actions. Aircraft
possessed information is a factor in computing aircraft availability metrics used by senior
AF officials to make resource allocation decisions across weapon systems, charter process
improvement and other initiatives. It documents the in-work/storage status of weapon systems
such as aircraft, both fixed and rotary and RPA possessed by AFMC and undergoing depot
maintenance (including inspections performed by depot or contract field teams) at a government,
contractor, or transitory commercial facility. It also identifies aircraft that can be compressed or
accelerated for early return to the owning commands in support of a simulation or real world
contingency. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
3. Work Performance Categories (Job Designator Codes). See Attachment 2.
4. Related Metrics Definitions and Reporting Requirements. See Attachment 3.
Section B—Responsibilities & Procedures
5. Responsibilities:
     5.1. HQ AFMC/A4 Directorate of Logistics is the command OPR for the AMREP System.
     5.2. The Weapon System Program Manager (SPM) is the Center OPR for data contained in
     this system. SPMs will designate both a primary and alternate AMREP representative who
     will enter and update data in the AMREP system. The responsible SPM will maintain a
     current appointment letter and notify HQ AFMC/A4D of personnel changes by submitting an
     updated appointment letter to AFMC/A4D Workflow. The SPM may delegate the authority
     to update forecast out dates, input root cause data, and Functional Check Flight (FCF) data if
     mutually agreed upon by the SPM and Maintenance Wing (MXW) or repair activity. When
     work is performed at a site other than where the SPM is located, the SPM may delegate the
     authority and designate an individual at that location to enter and update AMREP data. Each
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                       3


  Center will also designate a Primary AMREP System OPR in writing who will oversee data
  input and assign Mission Design Series (MDS) user permission. HQ AFMC/A4N will
  appoint a primary and alternate AMREP Logistics System Integrator (LSI) with the authority
  to grant user access and administrative roles.
     5.2.1. Aircraft possessed by AFMC undergoing depot level inspections, repairs or
     modifications at an Air Logistics Center (ALC), field location, contractor or transitory
     commercial facility will be reported into the AMREP System. This includes both
     scheduled (programmed) and unscheduled (unprogrammed) depot maintenance where
     AFMC has taken possession of the aircraft. All AF owned aircraft that are in the ―D*‖
     series Possession Purpose Identifier (PPI) code in the Reliability and Maintainability
     Information System (REMIS) must be reported in the AMREP system. Follow guidelines
     in AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, for weapon
     system reporting process and PPI code definitions. Additionally, all aircraft owned by
     other services and Foreign Military Sales within AFMC’s control for the purpose of
     depot level maintenance, must also be reported. All aircraft must be reported received in
     the AMREP System within one (1) workday after the arrival of the aircraft at the repair
     activity unless specified in a special agreement between the SPM, MXW, and owning
     MAJCOM. For grounded aircraft awaiting field team maintenance or depot input, the
     initial entry will be made one (1) workday from the date the 107 request (per TO 00-25-
     107, Maintenance Assistance) is approved by the repair center for action. As a minimum,
     this entry will include the received date, which is the date AFMC accepted repair or
     disposition responsibility of the aircraft (i.e., REMIS PPI code DJ start date).
         5.2.1.1. Early arrivals negotiated between the owning MAJCOM, SPM and
         maintenance activity for logistics or funding considerations will be placed in-work
         into the AMREP system no later than one (1) workday after the agreed upon in-work
         date. To maintain the original negotiated schedule, the reporting activity must ensure
         the agreed upon date is entered into the ―in-work‖ date block of AMREP. Condition
         and circumstance should be documented in the Remarks section of AMREP. These
         aircraft should remain in unit possessed status (REMIS ―C*‖or ―T*‖ PPI code) until
         the negotiated in-work date unless the SPM and maintenance repair activity agreed to
         place the aircraft in-work at the time of arrival at the repair location.
     5.2.2. The SPM and appointed designees are responsible for timely system updates and
     assuring the accuracy of the aircraft status data in A030D AMREP System. Aircraft
     status changes (e.g., schedule changes, completions, deliveries, remarks) shall be made
     no later than one business day from date of occurrence. AMREP is a ―real time‖ system
     that supports the enterprise level data warehouse, ALC weapon specific systems, and the
     Global Combat Support System-AF (GCSS-AF) Data Services. Accuracy of AMREP
     data is paramount in keeping the production plan, projections and root cause codes
     current for further analysis and presentation to senior leaders.
     5.2.3. Exceptions to Reporting. Aircraft in PPI code DL (Depot Delivery Flight) and
     aircraft undergoing regeneration for Aerial Target activities are exempt from reporting in
     the AMREP system. Any additional exception to reporting must be recommended by the
     Aerospace Sustainment Directorate (ASD) director or civilian equivalent to HQ
     AFMC/A4. Such recommendations must be coordinated with the owning command prior
 4                                                                   AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


        to submission. HQ AFMC/A4 remains the sole approval authority for exceptions to
        reporting. All aircraft will be reported in AMREP until the exception is granted.
        5.2.4. The SPM will ensure Depot Maintenance performed by contractors [including
        Contract Depot Maintenance (CDM) contracts, Contractor Logistics Support (CLS)
        contracts, and Interim Contract Support (ICS) contracts] and non-AF repair activities
        comply with the requirements identified within this instruction or meet its intent as part
        of the contract, statement of work, performance work specifications, or Depot
        Maintenance Inter-Service Agreement (DMISA).
6. Procedures:
     6.1. Establishing Original Scheduled Out Date and Revised Scheduled Out Date:
        6.1.1. Original Scheduled Out Date. The Original Scheduled Out Date is established no
        later than the day the aircraft is placed in work. The negotiated flow days specified in the
        work specification, contract, project directive, or workload agreement for each aircraft
        tail number is for all projected known requirements including SPM approved items listed
        in the AFTO Form 103, Aircraft/Missile Condition Data; e.g., Programmed Depot
        Maintenance (PDM), analytical condition inspection (ACI), on condition maintenance
        (OCM), modifications, etc. Flow days are negotiated by the SPM and Maintenance
        Wing/repair activity with the owning MAJCOM IAW TO 00-25-4, Depot Maintenance
        of Aerospace Vehicles and Training Equipment. The SPM must ensure that all initial
        requirements are supportable with existing capacity (i.e., material/parts, facility,
        manpower, and funds). Requirements that are not supportable will not be accepted by
        MXW unless mutually agreed upon by the SPM and MXW with the understanding that
        additional flow days may be required. The negotiated flow days are added to the Date In-
        work, minus one day, to compute the Original Scheduled Out Date.
Date In-work + Negotiated Flow Days -1 = Original Scheduled Out Date
Once established, the Original Scheduled Out Date (baseline) will not be changed.
            6.1.1.1. For planned priority or accelerated/compressed aircraft (before induction)
            with the owning MAJCOM, the negotiated scheduled out date, flow days, and
            assessment period will be used to populate the Original Scheduled Out Date and Flow
            Days blocks in AMREP.
        6.1.2. Assessment Period. The repair activity will establish the Revised Scheduled Out
        Date based on the assessment of the aircraft and all ―known‖ requirements within the
        approved assessment period. The Assessment Period duration shall be 45 percent of the
        original negotiated flow days by MDS or serial number with a stretch goal of 30 percent.
        For example, if weapon system C-5A Serial Number 69-0027 negotiated flow days is
        285, the assessment period will be 128 days with a goal of 85 days starting from the in-
        work date. Any changes to the assessment period duration must be agreed to by the
        SPM, the MXW Commander or civilian equivalent and owning MAJCOMs. Assessment
        period for an MD/MDS or aircraft serial number may only be changed for over and above
        (O&A) corrosion/structural issues, additional approved workload requirements, or
        conditions beyond the SPM and Repair Activity’s control. The SPM will maintain copies
        of any approved changes. Any updates to an aircraft’s Assessment Period will be
        updated in the AMREP System with details in the Remarks section.
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                        5


     6.1.3. Revised Scheduled Out Date. The Revised Scheduled Out Date is computed after
     the repair activity has completed its assessment of the aircraft. The Revised Scheduled
     Out Date reflects changes to the Original Scheduled Out Date based on the level of effort
     required to accomplish assessment period findings, e.g., Work Specification (project),
     Related Unpredictables and O&A. The new revised date should reflect the days
     necessary to acquire and install additional parts. A change to the revised scheduled out
     date will also result from any approved schedule extensions after the assessment period.
     Repair activity delivery performance will be measured against the Revised Scheduled
     Out Date.
     6.1.4. Schedule Changes:
        6.1.4.1. Schedule change restrictions. No more than two changes to the Original
        Scheduled Out Date are allowed, one during the assessment period and one after.
        Any request to revise the schedule beyond the two authorized changes must be
        approved by the AFMC/A4. Only the SPM may authorize any schedule changes to
        the AMREP system. Changes to the schedule will not be made to compensate for
        parts supportability problems, facility constraints, or seasonal weather conditions
        (except as provided for in para 6.1.4.4). The only exception to this would be new
        parts required to accomplish additional approved workload. Work Specification
        (project), Related Unpredictables and O&A requirements are considered additional
        workload.       Changes to the delivery schedule as a result of approved
        acceleration/compression, adjustment to work shifts, or modified workweek will be
        reflected in the Forecast Out Date.
        6.1.4.2. Changes made during the Assessment Period. The repair activity will submit
        a schedule change request signed by the Wing Commander, civilian equivalent, or
        designated representative to the responsible SPM. This request will include a
        description of any added requirements to include change in scope to established tasks,
        the man hours and parts required to accomplish the task, the impact to the established
        schedule, and a detailed explanation of why the schedule was affected. The
        designated organic, contract, partnership, and non-AF repair activity designated
        representative must be appointed by the Wing Commander or Civilian equivalent in
        writing. The SPM is responsible for notifying the owning MAJCOMs of any
        schedule changes to ensure that a revised delivery date (Revised Scheduled Out Date)
        is established. The scheduled out date may only be changed for approved additional
        workload to include change in scope to established tasks. The new scheduled out
        date should take into account the time to acquire any new parts necessary to
        accomplish this workload. The additional flow days will be added to the previously
        approved flow days to determine the new Revised Scheduled Out Date. The SPM
        must ensure that any added requirements are supportable (i.e., material/parts, facility,
        manpower, and funds). Requirements that are not supportable will not be accepted by
        MXW unless mutually agreed upon by the SPM and MXW with the understanding
        that additional flow days may be required. Flow days will be directly tied to the
        supportability of the aircraft. The ASD/SPM is the final approval/disapproval
        authority on schedule changes and will provide a written decision to the repair
        activity. The SPM will maintain copies of all approved and disapproved change
        requests. In the event the SPM disapproved a request to revise the schedule, the
6                                                            AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


    Forecast Out Date must be updated to ensure it reflects the most current estimated
    completion date. The Forecast Out Date should be revised accordingly if the
    production organization adjusts work shifts or modifies the workweek.
       6.1.4.2.1. The Revised Scheduled Out Date must be updated in AMREP (A030D)
       within ten (10) workdays of the end of the approved assessment period. This will
       allow time for internal coordination and routing of the scheduled output date
       change through MXW or repair activity and to the SPM.
    6.1.4.3. Changes after the Assessment Period. The repair activity will submit a
    schedule change request signed by the Wing Commander, civilian equivalent, or
    designated representative to the responsible SPM. This request will include a
    description of any added requirements to include significant changes in scope to
    existing tasks, the man hours and parts required to accomplish the task, the impact to
    the established schedule, and a detailed explanation of why the schedule was affected.
    The designated repair activity representative must be appointed by the Wing
    Commander or civilian equivalent in writing. The SPM is responsible for notifying
    the owning MAJCOM of any revisions to the delivery date (Revised Scheduled Out
    Date). The ASD/SPM is the final approval/disapproval authority on schedule changes
    and will provide a written decision to the repair activity. Changes will be made only
    when the scope of work has changed beyond the original work specification (e.g.,
    customer requested modifications or inspections, previously undiscovered defects),
    additional O&A, new parts required to complete added requirements, or SPM
    directed safety inspections. The additional flow days will be added to the previously
    approved flow days to determine the new Revised Scheduled Out Date. If new parts
    are required, the time to acquire and install these parts should be factored into the new
    revised out date. The SPM must ensure that any added requirements are supportable
    with existing capacity (i.e., material/parts, facility, manpower, and funds) and must
    notify the owning MAJCOM and MXW to compensate for the added workload. The
    SPM will maintain copies of all approved and disapproved change requests. In the
    event the SPM disapproved a request to revise the schedule, the Forecast Out Date
    must be updated to ensure it reflects the most current estimated completion date.
    6.1.4.4. The schedule may also be revised due to extreme weather conditions (e.g.,
    devastating hail storm, ice storm, flooding, extreme temperature, etc.) resulting in
    base closure, consecutive late reporting, damage to operations and maintenance
    infrastructure, and safety concerns that significantly caused delays in the schedule.
    Changes to the scheduled output date for these reasons must be coordinated between
    Maintenance Wing or repair activity and should follow guidance in paragraphs
    6.1.4.2. to 6.1.4.3. Changes to the schedule due to extreme weather condition count
    towards the maximum of two changes.
    6.1.4.5. Schedule Change Waiver. Any request beyond the two authorized changes
    must be coordinated through AFMC/A4D and A4F and approved by AFMC/A4. The
    responsible SPM will submit a schedule change request signed by the ASD and repair
    activity management (MXW Commander or civilian equivalent) and coordinated with
    the owning MAJCOM. Waivers will only be considered when the scope of work has
    changed beyond the original work specification (e.g., customer requested
    modifications or inspections, previously undiscovered defects), additional O&A
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                       7


         requirements, SPM directed safety inspections, extreme weather conditions, and other
         extenuating situations. The SPM must ensure that any added requirements are
         supportable with existing capacity (i.e., material/parts, facility, manpower, and
         funds). The SPM will send all waiver requests to AFMC/A4 Workflow and follow
         procedures IAW HQ AFMC/A4 Standardized Waiver Request and Approval Policy
         memorandum.
     6.1.5. Forecast Out Date. The Forecast Out Date represents the best estimated aircraft
     completion date regardless of the date which appears in the Original/Revised Out Date.
     This field must be updated as soon as a new forecast out date has been identified or the
     aircraft completion date is expected to slip. An accurate Forecast Out Date is vital to
     MAJCOM customers to allow real world/contingency mission planning and expectation
     management. The SPM is responsible for keeping the customer MAJCOM informed of
     any variations to the original work package and scope of each aircraft undergoing depot
     level repair.
     6.1.6. Record deletions. Deletions will be kept to a minimum and only used to correct
     major input errors. Since all deletions are captured in the AMREP system, annotate the
     reason for the deletion in the remarks section of the new entry if the record is being
     reentered.
     6.1.7. Additional work. Additional work added after an aircraft is received and placed in
     work will not be counted as separate actions/completions. The added work should be
     documented in the remarks section of AMREP.
     6.1.8. Documentation. The SPM and appointed designees must document details of any
     change to the Revised or Forecast Out Date in the Remarks section of the AMREP
     system.
  6.2. Flow Day Calculation. Planned Flow Days are the days reflected by the Input/Output
  Schedule. Actual Flow Days are calculated from the Date In-Work, or the day when the
  aircraft undergoes incoming processing action through the completion date. To arrive at the
  Actual Flow Days for a particular aircraft, subtract the Date In-Work from the Completion
  Date and add one day (Ready for Delivery).
           Completion Date – Date In-Work + 1 = Actual Flow Days
  6.3. Acceleration and Compression Procedures (see definitions in Attachment 1). For the
  purposes of estimating Acceleration/Compression, SPM’s will establish these procedures for
  each aircraft Mission Design. SPMs are responsible for ensuring accuracy of
  Acceleration/Compression factors in the AMREP system.
     6.3.1. Acceleration and Compression Factors between 0 and 1.0. The development of
     Acceleration and Compression Factors is an engineering function. Acceleration and
     compression factors should be developed using past experience, expected gains from
     moving from the current work schedule to up to a 24-hour a day work schedule,
     personnel constraints, facility constraints, expected changes in efficiency, and other
     factors as applicable.
     6.3.2. Cutoff Flow Days. Cutoff flow days are the initial days in depot flow time used for
     in-processing the aircraft, but prior to beginning disassembly.
 8                                                                  AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


        6.3.3. Compression Factors for Cutoff Flow Days. To determine workdays remaining
        under acceleration or compression, multiply the appropriate factor for each aircraft by the
        remaining flow days unless the cutoff flow day has not been reached. Portions of
        acceleration and compression flow days are always rounded up (13.1 = 14 flow days).
        The cutoff flow day is that day on which the aircraft has completed in-processing and
        disassembly is to start.

Table 1. 1 Compression Acceleration Example
The factors established for the F-XX are:
Compression: .62 Acceleration: .78
Cutoff flow days: 13 Cutoff compression: 3 days
The remaining forecast flow days are 133
Compression Flow Days = 133 x .62 = 82.46 rounded up to 83
Acceleration Flow Days = 133 x .78 = 103.74 rounded up to 104
If the aircraft has not reached its 13th flow day, then compression flow days = 3
     6.4. If the SPM is directed to compress or accelerate an aircraft by the owning command,
     they will have the maintenance organization perform a detailed evaluation of the request.
     Acceleration and compression of aircraft will be in accordance with procedures in AFMC
     and Center Surge Contingency Plan 70. New compression or acceleration flow days
     developed as a result of the detailed evaluation will be entered in the AMREP System,
     overriding the original AMREP calculated compression/acceleration flow days.
     6.5. Annual Production Plan. Each SPM is responsible for entering their annual fiscal year
     production plan by MDS into AMREP in terms of expected production for each month
     broken out by PDMs, modifications, and other planned workload. See Attachment 3 for
     specific details on entering and maintaining the planned production.
7. Contingency/Exercise Management:
     7.1. During contingencies or higher levels of alert, SPMs should immediately calculate how
     many aircraft could be compressed or accelerated. This data should be forwarded to
     customer commands and to the HQ AFMC Battlestaff as soon as possible. If an aircraft
     compression or acceleration is officially requested, the SPM must solicit a detailed
     evaluation from the repair activity in order to calculate the associated cost.
     7.2. Command and Joint Chiefs of Staff Command Post Exercise. HQ AFMC Battlestaff
     Logistics Readiness Center will be responsible for initiating the systems exercise option and
     notifying the appropriate activities of this action.
     7.3. Local Exercise. Each activity will initiate their own exercise option according to the
     instructions in the AMREP Users Manual (copies are available online at https://amrep-
     prod.day.disa.mil/amrepreports/UserManual/AMREPUserManual.pdf




                                             KATHLEEN D. CLOSE, Major General, USAF
                                             Director of Logistics and Sustainment
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                        9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance (25 Feb 2003)
AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and
Termination (1 Dec 2009)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records (1 Mar 2008)
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting (9 Apr 2010)
TO 00-25-107, Maintenance Assistance (15 Aug 2011)
TO 00-25-4, Depot Maintenance of Aerospace Vehicles and Training Equipment (15 Aug 2011)
AFI 63-1101, Modification Management (17 Jul 2001)
(AFMC Supplement) AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management (19 Oct
2011)
TO 00-35D-54 United States Air Force Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution (1
Oct 2009)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation of Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFTO Form 103, Aircraft/Missile Condition Data, 17 September 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMARG—Aircraft Maintenance and Regeneration Group
AMR—Aircraft and Missile Requirements
AMREP—Aircraft Maintenance Production/Compression Report
ASD—Aerospace Sustainment Directorate
CDM—Contract Depot Maintenance
CLS—Contractor Logistics Support
DOD—Department of Defense (also DoD)
DDP—Due Date Performance
DMISA—Depot Maintenance Inter-Service Agreement
FCF—Functional Check Flight
 10                                                               AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


FD—Flow Days
HSC—Home Station Checks
HVM—High Velocity Maintenance
IAW—In Accordance With
ICS—Interim Contract Support
JDRS—Joint Deficiency Reporting System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
GCSS—AF-Global Combat Support System – Air Force
MXW—Maintenance Wing
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
O&A—Over and Above
OCM—On Condition Maintenance
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PPI—Possession Purpose Identifier
QDR—Quality Defect Rate
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RAM—Rapid Area Maintenance
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
SDLM—Standard Depot Level Maintenance
SPM—System Program Manager
SPO—System Program Office
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force
UAV—Unmanned Aerospace Vehicle

Terms
Acceleration—Maximum production required for certain designated mission essential materiel
undergoing depot level maintenance or modification. Acceleration of aircraft is intended to meet
war-time or contingency requirements. Maximize production and preparedness by:
   Suspending routine peacetime aircraft inputs to depot maintenance facilities
   Extending the workday and workweek up to 24 hours a day/7 days a week operation
   Realigning the workstations and redistributing the labor force as required
   Cannibalizing as necessary to complete the essential maintenance or modification;
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                          11


    requirements on the maximum amount of materiel
During acceleration conditions, the maintenance facility follows the same basic procedure as in
compression, except that the peacetime work specifications normally remain unchanged. (This
includes the requirement for functional check flights).
ACI—Analytical Condition Inspection. The systematic disassembly and inspection of a
representative sample of aircraft to find hidden defects, deteriorating conditions, corrosion,
fatigue, overstress and other deficiencies in the aircraft structure or systems.
Actual Flow Days—Actual Flow Days are calculated by subtracting Date In-work from Date
Completed plus one day. Measured in calendar days.
AMREP Item Number—Optional field used by SPM to track aircraft sequence number.
Assessment End Date—The Assessment End Date is the date that an overall evaluation of the
aircraft is to be completed and the scope of work is known. The Assessment End Date is
calculated by adding the Assessment Period to the Date In-Work. After the Assessment End
Date, the schedule is considered fixed unless there are special circumstances as specified in
paragraph 6
Assessment Period—A period of time, measured from the date that the aircraft is placed in
work, that Examination and Inventory is conducted (see paragraph 6). Based upon the results of
the Assessment Period, the SPM may alter the Revised Scheduled Out Date.
Completion Date (Ready for Delivery)—The date the aircraft is ready for delivery to the
owning command providing that:
All work is completed.
FCF acceptance, if required, is completed along with the corrections of any identified
discrepancies requiring work.
The owning command has been notified that the aircraft is ready for pickup.
The aircraft stands ready for crew acceptance and flyaway, except for the
maintenance/operational ferry preflight.
Compression—When the maximum production is required for specified mission essential
aircraft that are undergoing depot maintenance/modification. Compression of aircraft is intended
to meet war-time or contingency requirements. Production is compressed by:
Suspending routine peacetime work requirements and discontinuing aircraft inputs to depot
maintenance facilities.
Reassembling the aircraft after doing the absolute minimum maintenance essential to the safety
of flight, and only those modifications essential to the weapon's war mission configuration as
directed by engineering.
Extending the workday and the workweek up to 24 hours a day/7 days a week operation;
realigning the workstations; and redistributing the labor force, as needed to meet maximum
production efforts.
Resorting to whatever cannibalization is needed to complete the essential
maintenance/modification on the maximum number of aircraft.
Compression Specifications—The minimum maintenance or modification requirements needed
to render an aircraft effective in its assigned war mission. The requirement for FCF is left to the
discretion of SPM Chief Engineer under compression conditions. This normally requires an
 12                                                                   AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


engineering assessment of the minimum essential inspections, maintenance, repairs, and
modifications required to return each depot-possessed tail number to service.
Cutoff Flow Days—Cutoff flow days are the initial days in depot flow time used for in
processing the aircraft, but prior to beginning disassembly.
Date In—Work—The date the repair activity began work on the aircraft. Work begins when the
aircraft undergoes incoming processing action.
Date Received—The date the aircraft arrived at the repair activity.
Delivery Date—The date the aircraft was picked up by, or transported to, the owning command.
Depot Maintenance—Maintenance that requires overhauling or rebuilding parts, assemblies,
subassemblies, and end items. It may include manufacture of parts, modifications, inspections,
testing, and reclamation. Depot maintenance supports base-level technicians by giving them
technical help and doing any repairs beyond their responsibility. Depot maintenance includes all
software maintenance.
Depot Maintenance Facility (Repair Activity)—A government or contractor facility that
performs depot maintenance and modification of aircraft.
Due Date Performance—Due Date Performance is the accepted metric for aircraft production.
It is used to measure aircraft in the month produced against operative schedule (original or
revised) against the actual completion date.
FCF—Functional Check Flight. A flight performed after completing inspections or maintenance
to make sure that the aircraft is airworthy and capable of mission accomplishment. FCF
information must be entered into the AMREP system prior to aircraft delivery. AMREP will
automatically calculate the total number of attempts once the number of FCFs and ground aborts
are entered.
Flow Days—The number of days required to complete work on the aircraft. Flow days are
measured from the Date In-Work. Flow days are negotiated by MDS and work package between
the SPM, MXW or repair activity, and MAJCOM based on weapon system specific work
schedule.
Forecast Flow days—The number of forecasted calendar flow days, calculated by subtracting
the Forecast Out Date from the Date In-Work plus one day.
Forecast Out Date—The date the repair activity expects to deliver the aircraft to the owning
command. This date may be earlier or later than the Original or Revised Scheduled Out Dates.
The Forecast Out Date must reflect the best estimate of completion. Consequently, it will change
as conditions warrant.
GCSS—AF Data Services—Provides the enterprise with a single source for authoritative data,
analytical processing, and integrated enterprise solutions. Data is available on-demand to provide
consumers with the information they require to make tactical and strategic decisions from across
the combat support domains.
In-work Date—The date of the first maintenance action in a series of scheduled events to
complete a repair, preventive maintenance, or modification. Also referred to as Induction Date.
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                          13


MDS (Mission, Design, and Series)—The official designation for aerospace vehicles used to
represent a specific category of aerospace vehicles for operations, support, and documentation
purposes.
OCM (On Condition Maintenance)—A program to schedule selected aircraft into a depot level
facility to correct known specific defects. Selection is based on combinations of critical and
major defects.
Original Scheduled Out Date—The original date when all maintenance on the aircraft is due to
be completed and the aircraft is to be ready for delivery to the owning command. The Original
Scheduled Out-Date is established no later than the day the aircraft is placed in work. This date
serves as the baseline, once entered, this date cannot be changed.
Over and Above—Work/tasks discovered during the course of performing overhaul,
maintenance, and repair efforts that is (1) not within the general scope of the work specification,
PD or contract, (2) not covered by the line item(s) for the basic work under the work
specification, PD or contract, and (3) necessary in order to satisfactorily release the aircraft.
These are low frequency items or work that is not called out in the work specification, PD or
covered under economy or flight safety tasks. These items of work will only be done to correct a
critical or major deficiency and must be approved by the Project Administration Officer (PAO)
or the SPM representative.
Original Flow days—The original (negotiated) calendar flow days specified in the contract,
work specification, workload agreement, or PD for each aircraft tail number for all known
requirements, e.g., PDM, Analytical Condition Inspection, On Condition Maintenance, and
modifications. The original flow days are calculated by subtracting the Original Out-Date from
the Date In-Work plus one day.
PDM (Programmed Depot Maintenance)—Predetermined amount of repair work (requiring
depot skills, equipment, and tooling) that requires disassembly, necessary cleaning, and
inspection for repair or replacement, as necessary, of the component or assemblies.
Repair Activity—The depot or contractor location that is responsible for depot maintenance on
the aircraft. Repair activity/location codes are available in the AMREP System.
Revised Flow days—The flow days resulting from an approved schedule extension. The number
of days required to complete work on an aircraft based on the Revised Out Date.
Revised Scheduled Out Date—A revision to the previously approved scheduled out date as a
result of allowable changes.
Root Cause—The cause that, if corrected, would prevent recurrence of this and similar
occurrences.
Root Cause Analysis—A step by step method that leads to the discovery of the cause or causes
that led to occurrence.
Scheduled (Revised) Flow Days—These are the renegotiated calendar flow days and
arecalculated by subtracting the Revised Out Date from the Date In-Work plus one day.
SPM—System Program Manager. A designated individual assigned the responsibility and
delegated the authority for the centralized management of a particular system/project.
 14                                                            AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


Work Specification (project) Related Unpredictables—These are requirements that are
defined or can be related to one of the work codes in the work specification document. These
discrepancies within the scope of the Work Specification have a negotiated block of
hours/money available to assign against in the course of performing programmed maintenance.
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                              15


                                          Attachment 2
                     WORK PERFORMANCE CATEGORY CODES

The work performance category is an alpha code used to describe the type and extent of work
being done. AMREP refers to work performance category codes as Job Designator Codes. This
list provides a brief description of job designator codes as applied in the AMREP system
(A030D). For a more precise description of each code, refer to DOD 7000.14, Volume 6A,
Chapter 14, Addendum 5. Authorized work performance categories are as follows:

Table A2.1. Work Performance Category Codes
  Code     Title and Description
           Overhaul. The disassembly, test, and inspection of the operating components and the
           basic structure to determine and accomplish the necessary repair, rebuild, replacement,
   A
           and servicing required achieving the desired level of performance. Overhaul is
           synonymous with ―rework‖ and ―rebuild.‖
           Scheduled Depot Maintenance. Inspection and correction of defects that require skills,
           equipment or facilities not normally possessed by operating locations. Includes aircraft
    B
           with cyclical Standard Depot Level Maintenance (SDLM) and Programmed Depot
           Maintenance (PDM) programs.
           Conversion. The alteration of the basic characteristics of an item to such an extent as to
   C
           change its mission, performance, or capability.
           Activation. The process of returning an item from preservation, storage, or inactive
           status to an active, serviceable status by removing from storage and containers,
   D
           stripping, inspecting, servicing, testing, repairing and replacing components, assemblies,
           or subassemblies as required.
           Inactivation. The servicing and preservation of an item prior to placement in storage or
    E
           an inactive status.
           Renovation. The proof and test evaluation, and rework of ammunition or ordnance
    F
           items as required for retaining their desired capability.
           Analytical Condition Inspection. The disassembly, test, and inspection of end-items,
           assemblies or subassemblies to determine and accomplish the necessary rework, rebuild,
           replacement or modification required. It includes the technical analysis of the findings
   G
           and determination of maintenance criteria. Includes prototype teardown, analysis and
           rework of an item to determine job and material specifications for a subsequent
           maintenance requirement.
           Modifications (and Upgrades). An alteration to a configuration item (CI) applicable to
           aircraft, missiles, support equipment, ground stations software (imbedded), trainers, etc.
   H
           As a minimum, the alteration changes form, fit, function or interface of the item
           (Reference AFI 63-1101 for more details).
           Repair. Action to restore an item to a serviceable condition from an unserviceable
    I
           condition, correcting principally those defects that rendered the item unserviceable.
           Inspection and Test/Engineering Investigations. The examination and confirmation
           of the condition or operational status of an item relative to its applicable specifications;
           includes First Article Test. Engineering investigations are used to determine the cause of
    J
           reported equipment failure or malfunction and are accomplished through the application
           of a disassembly and inspection investigation, material analysis inspection, and/or an
           engineering assistance investigation.
16                                                                 AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


     K   Manufacture. The fabrication of an item from raw materials or components.
         Reclamation. The authorized processing of end-items, assemblies or subassemblies to
         obtain parts or components that are to be retained in operating materials and supplies
     L   prior to taking disposal action on the end-item, assembly or subassembly. Covers
         demilitarization actions on items prior to disposal when the demilitarization is incidental
         to the reclamation.
         Storage. The inspection, preservation and maintenance in a storage status of weapons
     M
         and equipment items, as well as their subsystems and components in the supply system.
         Technical Assistance. The use of qualified depot maintenance personnel to provide
         technical information, instructions or guidance, or to perform specific work requiring
     N
         special skills for operational activities or other maintenance organizations. Includes all
         demilitarization other than that incidental to reclamation when required to be reported.
         Paint. The application of any liquid or protective coating to aircraft surfaces. This Job
     P   Designator Code will only be used if painting is the primary task called out in the Work
         Control Documents.
     Q   Warranty Work. Used to document warranty work performed after aircraft delivery.
         Depot Development of Technical and Engineering Data. The use of qualified depot
     R
         personnel to develop technical and engineering data.
         Other Assigned Depot Workload. HQ AFMC assigned; see AMREP Job Designator
     S
         dropdown menu for details
         Non-Maintenance (Other) Work. Used to complete the reporting of all maintenance
         work force costs incurred. Any costs incurred at a depot maintenance activity funded by
         the Air Force Working Capital Fund that do not meet the criteria for reporting under the
         other work performance categories shall be reported in this category. This includes any
     T
         maintenance support costs funded by the Air Force Working Capital Fund activity.
         Maintenance support includes centralized programming and planning support, technical
         and engineering services, preparation of maintenance publications and engineering data,
         and technical and administrative training.
         Software Support. The sum of all amounts for efforts required to correct software
         deficiencies to ensure that, during the post-deployment phase of a mission critical
         computer system’s life, the implemented and fielded software continues to support the
     U   system mission. Depot maintenance software support excludes efforts required to
         update software to operate the new hardware configurations or required to support new
         missions. Depot maintenance software support addresses both embedded software
         systems and support equipment software (e.g., automated test equipment).
         Calibration. The comparison of a measurement system or device of unknown accuracy
     V   to a system or device of known and greater accuracy. The system or device of greater
         accuracy is a measurement standard.
         Contractor Logistics Support (CLS). CLS is commercial support for those weapon
         systems and equipment that do not have an organic support base established.
     W   Contractors provide total support including depot maintenance for the equipment, end-
         item, and components. Only those maintenance functions that would be classified as
         depot level, if the equipment were maintained organically, will be included.
         Scheduled Inspections. Used to report scheduled inspections other than cyclical
         PDMs. This includes aircraft Isochronal Inspections (major/minor), Phased Inspections
     X   and Home Station Checks (HSC) performed by depot personnel. This Job Designator
         Code will only be used if these inspections are the primary task called out in the Work
         Control Documents.
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                  17


        Scheduled Maintenance. Other scheduled depot maintenance not identified by current
   Y
        Job Designator Codes
   Z    Not used.
 18                                                                AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


                                         Attachment 3
            METRICS DEFINITIONS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

A3.1. Aircraft Due Date Performance: Due Date Performance (DDP) measures AFMC’s
ability to produce aircraft according to schedule. This measure tracks scheduled (programmed)
and unscheduled (unprogrammed) organic and contract depot level maintenance performed by
ALCs, depot maintenance contractors, and non-AF repair activities. DDP does not include field
team maintenance workload. Data source for aircraft DDP is AMREP System (A030D).
   A3.1.1. Calculation: Aircraft are measured in the month produced against the operative
   schedule, both the original and revised.
       A3.1.1.1. Original DDP. The Original DDP is a measure of the SPM and Repair
       Activity’s ability to plan to the basic depot work package and deliver aircraft to the
       owning MAJCOMs based on the original schedule. Aircraft are measured in the month
       produced against the original schedule. The operative schedule is the original schedule as
       agreed upon by the SPM, MXW, or owning MAJCOM IAW paragraph 6 of this
       instruction.
          A3.1.1.1.1. Threshold values for early, on time, or late deliveries are:
Early – Produced 1 day or more before the Original Scheduled Out Date

On Time – Produced on the Original Scheduled Out Date

Late – Produced 1 day or more after the Original Scheduled Out Date

Aircraft Produced Early + Aircraft Produced on Time = Original DDP
Total Aircraft Produced
       A3.1.1.2. Revised DDP. Revised DDP is a measure of SPM and Repair Activity’s ability
       to execute to the plan with consideration to the assessment period guidance in paragraph
       6 of this regulation. Aircraft are measured in the month produced against the revised
       schedule. The operative schedule is the current schedule reflecting adjustments as agreed
       upon by the SPM and MXW IAW paragraph 6 of this instruction.
          A3.1.1.2.1. Threshold values for early, on time, or late deliveries are:
Early – Produced 1 day or more before the Revised Scheduled Out Date

On Time – Produced on the Revised Scheduled Out Date

Late – Produced 1 day or more after the Revised Scheduled Out Date

Aircraft Produced Early + Aircraft Produced on Time = Revised DDP
Total Aircraft Produced
   A3.1.2. Frequency: DDP is tracked and reported on a monthly basis and as required.
   A3.1.3. Standards: A4D will publish annual DDP standards for each MDS in October and
   post them on the AFMC A4 EIM (Microsoft SharePoint®) Community Site. Any requested
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                      19


   changes to a standard must be submitted to AFMC/A4D 45 days prior to the end of the
   current fiscal year. The AFMC A4 Metrics EIM Community site is located at
   https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/1201/default.aspx.
   A3.1.4. Root Cause Reporting Requirement: A root cause is required for any aircraft 1 day
   or more past its Revised Scheduled Out Date. The following data must be included with the
   root cause: Tail Number, Repair Activity, In-Work Date, Completion Date, Cause(s) for
   Delay (Cause Code), number of delayed days attributed to each cause and current planned
   action/measure(s) taken to prevent recurrence. Root Causes for late aircraft will be entered
   and released to HQ AFMC for submission into AMREP via the Root Cause Analysis module
   no later than the 3rd workday of the month following the close of the reported month. Use
   AMREP User’s Manual for details. A snapshot of the AMREP Root Cause screen is
   provided below.

Figure A3.1. Sample AMREP Root Cause Record




A3.2. Flow Days: The number of days required to complete work on the aircraft and are
measured from the Date In-work. For metrics purposes, only scheduled (programmed) aircraft
will be used to measure the flow days. Data source for aircraft Flow Days is AMREP System
(A030D). At the enterprise level, flow days will be grouped by AMREP job designators codes B
(PDM), H (modification), and OTHER (All other scheduled workload).
   A3.2.1. Calculation: Aircraft are measured in the month produced against the Original Out
   Date, Revised Out Date, Forecast Out Date, and the Actual Completion Date.
Total Original (Negotiated) Planned Flow Days = (Original Out Date – Date In-work) + 1
 20                                                                  AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012


Total Revised (Scheduled) Planned Flow Days = (Revised Out Date – Date In-work) + 1

Total Forecasted Flow Days = (Forecast Out Date – Date In-Work) + 1

Total Actual Flow Days = (Completion Date – Date In-work) + 1
   A3.2.2. Flow day definitions and allowable extensions to flow days are contained in
   paragraph 6 and Attachment 1. Note: Contract extensions granted to a contractor as a
   result of the government’s failure to act (e.g., failure to provide parts or failure to respond to
   Engineering Change Proposal evaluations in a timely manner) should not be considered an
   allowable schedule change for purposes of the data recorded in AMREP.
A3.3. Functional Check Flight (FCF) Reporting: Centers will report required FCF data into
the AMREP system upon completion of the negotiated depot level repair/modification or no later
than the delivery date as outlined in Chapter 14 of AFMC Supplement to AFI 21-101, Aircraft
and Equipment Maintenance Management. The Number of FCFs and Number of Ground Aborts
are required data fields in AMREP; they are used to generate command level metrics for the FCF
Fly Rate, Attempt Rate and Effectiveness Rate. FCF standards will be re-calculated annually
and posted on the AFMC A4 Metrics EIM (Microsoft SharePoint®) Community Site as described
in paragraph A3.1.3.
A3.4. Programmed Aircraft Production. The SPM will ensure that programmed (planned)
production is entered into AMREP using the Production Planning tool within the data editing
portion of AMREP. The production plan should be consistent with the appropriate (original or
revised) out date. The data will be entered no later than 15 days after the beginning of the fiscal
year to include PDMs, modifications, and other scheduled workload. These production numbers
should not include unscheduled aircraft or field team workload. Annual production plans will be
adjusted to compensate for aircraft produced early or late in the fiscal year program. For
example, aircraft scheduled to produce in Fiscal Year (FY)11 that produce in FY10 shall be
removed from the FY11 plan. Likewise, any aircraft intended for FY10 production but not
produced in FY10, must be added to the FY11 schedule. Any aircraft where the Revised Out
date moves forward into a future month should adjust their plan accordingly.
   A3.4.1. Programmed Aircraft Production Reports. There are two separate reports available
   in AMREP developed to track planned production. The Production Summary Report is used
   to track the entire fiscal year planned production and the Aircraft Production Plan Report is
   used to track production based on current data in AMREP (inducted aircraft based on original
   and revised out dates).
       A3.4.1.1. Production Summary Report. This report is populated using data from the
       Production Planning data editing tool. It displays each MDS fiscal year plan by month for
       PDMs, modifications, and other planned workloads. This report displays the planned
       numbers for the entire fiscal year for all current and future completions regardless if the
       aircraft are inducted into AMREP or not. Once entered, the Original plan cannot change
       and all revisions thereafter will be considered the Revised plan.
       A3.4.1.2. Aircraft Production Plan Report. This report displays all planned aircraft
       production based on current aircraft inducted into the AMREP system. Data is populated
       using the original and revised out dates from the Comprehensive Report data elements.
       This is an automated report used to populate the Aircraft Production Metric. The Aircraft
AFMCI21-118 9 MAY 2012                                                                            21


        Production Metric measures the actual completions against the original and revised
        planned completions (Revised Out Date). The plan will be adjusted for aircraft produced
        early or late in the fiscal year program as discussed in paragraph A3.5, Programmed
        Aircraft Production. AFMC HQ activities will extract the Aircraft Production Plan
        Report on the 4th work day of each month for the previous month’s data. For the end of
        the fiscal year data, the report will be updated again on the 20th of October for the end-of-
        year closeout.
A3.5. Aircraft Quality Defect Rate (QDR): Center Quality Offices will utilize AMREP and
Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS) data in developing the monthly aircraft quality defect
metric. Measurements showing reported, accepted Critical/Major Defects and reported minors
will be developed based on the month that the aircraft was produced, not the month in which the
QDR was received. SPMs are required to comply with Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and
Resolution guidance IAW Technical Order (TO) 00-35D-54 United States Air Force Deficiency
Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution. SPMs will ensure accuracy of data entered in JDRS to
include the correct AMREP completion date.
   A3.5.1. AFMC/A4D will develop and publish annual quality standards for each MDS in
   October using the formula below. Standards will be posted on the AFMC A4 Metrics EIM
   (Microsoft SharePoint®) Community Site as described in paragraph A3.1.3
        ∑ Defects Accepted (previous 3 years)
 0.9x                                          = Accepted Defects Standard
        ∑ Aircraft Produced (previous 3 years)
   A3.5.2. Due to the 90 day interval between the receipt of the QDR and investigation process,
   July–June data will be used to calculate fiscal year standards. Requests for deviations from
   the approved calculation of the standard must be submitted with justification by the Center to
   HQ AFMC/A4D not later than 30 Nov each year. The Center Accepted Defects Standard is
   a weighted average of all MDSs produced. In no case will the individual MDS standard be
   less than 0.10 accepted critical or major defects per aircraft produced. After the MDS
   Accepted Defects Standard is calculated and the calculated standard is found to have
   increased, the previous standard will be used.
