BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                           INSTRUCTION 21-201
                                                                      25 NOVEMBER 2008

                                                                  Certified Current 4 January 2011




                                                                                      Maintenance

                                                    THE OVERSEAS WORKLOAD PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form s are available on the e-P ublishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFMC/A4DC                                         Certified by: AFMC/A4 (Ross E. Marshall)
Supersedes: AFMCI21-201, 12 October 2005                                             Pages: 16

This instruction provides the policy, procedures and guidance necessary to identify, select and
implement candidate items for inclusion in the Overseas Workload Program. It further
delineates responsibilities of the Air Force Material Command organization in order to optimize
support to the warfighter and meet program objectives.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision to AFMCI 21-201 updates policy and procedure for overseas workload for organic
and foreign military forces. This change updates office symbols (throughout); substantial
clarification (through-out). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force RDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
                                            Chapter 1
             THE OVERSEAS WORKLOAD PROGRAM (OWLP) PROCESS
1.1. Introduction:
1.1.1 Background. The OWLP is established by the goal of the United States Air Force (USAF)
to increase the readiness and sustainability of the operating forces overseas (to include allied
and/or coalition forces as circumstances warrant).
1.1.2. Objective. The OWLP is designed to support overseas operating forces during peace and
war in order to enhance operational readiness and sustainability for combat. Workloads may be
2                                                     AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008

accomplished by foreign industry or US Department of Defense (DoD) operated facilities within
theater. Also, OWLP has the potential of fulfilling Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) as an
outgrowth of US commitments. The OWLP may also be used to satisfy in-theater allied forces
repair requirements through Foreign Military Sales (FMS) agreements.
1.1.3. Scope and Applicability. For the purposes of workload identification, selection, and
implementation, the following geographic areas apply:
1.1.3.1. European Theater (EUCOM). This theater includes the geographical area of Europe. It
includes North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) member countries. It excludes any other
country where repair of USAF assets would be detrimental to national interests.
1.1.3.2. Pacific Theater (PACOM).
1.1.3.3. Mideast Theater (CENTCOM) Central Command is the U.S. military authority in the
Middle East, Southwest Asia, and the Horn of Africa.
1.1.3.4. U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM).
1.1.3.5. The Overseas Workload Program also can support other DoD components.
1.1.4. Exclusions: Countries where repair of USAF or allied assets would be detrimental to
national interest are excluded from the OWLP. This determination will be made by DoD through
HQ AFMC/A4. HQ AFMC/A4 will notify the ALCs and AFSAC of such countries and provide
guidance if conditions change.
1.1.5. Organic In-Theater Repair Facilities: The AFMC/525/EMXS, Support Center Pacific
(SCP), is an organic depot repair facility located at Kadena AB, Japan. It is managed as a product
branch of OO-ALC/MXW using a mixture of DoD civilian and military workforce. Organic
workload can also be accomplished by other Services.
1.1.6. Technology Transfer: Prior to final acceptance of a proposed Overseas Workload Program
(OWLP) effort, a foreign disclosure review in accordance with AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign
Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, must be performed by the Foreign Disclosure
Office. “Foreign disclosure reviews must be performed if additional STINFO coded
information, such as USAF Technical Orders, are to be provided to the OWLP contractor after
contract award” A foreign disclosure review is required to ensure all aspects of a workload
effort are approved for foreign participation. Proposed OWLP efforts generated at the field level
must be reviewed by the local Foreign Disclosure Office. Those efforts considered at the
MAJCOM level must be approved by AFSAC/XPJ, the HQ AFMC Command Foreign Disclosure
Policy Office.
1.2. Overall Workload Strategy. The following strategy will be applied when evaluating
candidate workloads for in-theater repair. Specific responsibilities are addressed in paragraph
1-3.
1.2.1. A CONUS Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) (organic or contract) must exist for all critical
workloads approved for in-theater depot level repair.
1.2.2. Overseas workloads may expand within the guidelines of this plan to improve the combat
capability within the overseas theater.
1.2.3. Depot maintenance costs will be fully justified by in-theatre readiness enhancements.
AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                 3

1.2.4. Sole source contracting is normally avoided unless fully justified by an ALC as necessary
to meet USAF requirements.
1.2.5. The placement of FMS workload will not interfere with the accomplishment of DoD
workload of equal or higher priority.
1.2.6. The development of new facilities or the acquisition of support equipment, special tooling,
etc., for the sole purpose of accomplishing FMS workload is not authorized. Exceptions may be
made when overarching US national interests apply. When such exceptions are authorized, FMS
countries will be required to fund the additional, incremental costs incurred.
1.2.7. Contract Depot Maintenance must follow AFMCI 21-133, Depot Maintenance
Management for Aircraft Repair or AFMCI21-149, Contract Depot Maintenance.
1.3. Responsibilities:
1.3.1. The Directorate of Logistics (HQ AFMC/A4) will:
1.3.1.1. Serve as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the overall OWLP.
1.3.1.2. Develop policies and procedures to accomplish Depot Source of Repair Assignment
Process (DSOR) efforts or workload shift analysis on workloads to be considered for in-theater
repair. Guiding policy is in AFI 63-101, Operations of Capabilities Based Acquisition System
and AFMCI 21-151, Workload Approval Process.
1.3.1.3. Develop overall maintenance policy for workloads and in conjunction with Manpower
and Personnel, (HQ AFMC and AF Manpower Agency) develop and approve manpower
requirements to support these workloads. In conjunction with HQ AFMC/FM, develop Depot
Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG) funding policy and budgets, and monitor the financial
execution of each overseas workload.
1.3.1.4. Develop policy and procedures for Contract Depot Maintenance.
1.3.1.5. Identify and develop data system requirements necessary to provide accountability and
control of materiel maintained to support the OWLP.
1.3.1.6. Develop the storage policies and procedures for workloads accomplished overseas.
1.3.1.7. Work with AFGLSC to develop data system requirements necessary to provide
accountability and control of materiel maintained to support the OWLP.
1.3.2. The Directorate of Contracting (HQ AFMC/PK) will:
1.3.2.1. Develop policies and procedures to solicit and contract overseas workloads.
1.3.3. Air Force Global Logistics Support Center (AFGLSC) will:
1.3.3.1. Act as the OPR for the OWLP at the ALC and serve as a single point of contact for all
actions pertaining to the OWLP.
1.3.3.2. Identify candidate workload to AFMC/A4.
1.3.3.3. Evaluate and recommend candidate workloads for in-theater depot repair in accordance
with Chapter 2 of this instruction.
1.3.3.4. Upon request, assist in negotiating government-to-government agreements to accomplish
workloads selected for in-theater depot repair.
4                                                      AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008

1.3.3.5. Recommend for repair only those items which enhance in-theater readiness through the
Candidate Approval Process to include the DSOR.
1.3.3.6. Develop the policy and procedures for data input required for materiel management and
stock level systems. Provide status reports to HQ USAF, and DoD as required.
1.3.3.7. Provide mechanized reporting of depot repaired and condemned quantities and shop flow
days to the recoverable item requirements computation system.
1.3.3.8. Develop policies and procedures for in-theater depot repair requirements that ensure
material pipelines are adjusted.
1.3.3.9. Assure that Program Authority (PA) is provided for the OWLP.
1.3.3.10. Maintain ABCS and EXPRESS to ensure they reflect in-theater requirements.
1.3.3.11. Ensure the Recoverable Item Movement Control System (RIMCS) reflects the in-
theater workload SOR changes.
1.3.3.12. Facilitate the negotiation and funding of repair requirements between ALC management
organizations and in-theater SOR representatives.
1.3.3.13. Validate the maintenance workload requirements to ensure that they represent approved
programs.
1.3.4. AFMC/525/EMXS, Support Center Pacific will:
1.3.4.1. Assist AFGLSC in identification of candidate workload.
1.3.4.2. For FMS items approved for SCP repair, SCP may advertise its capability to potentially
interested allied countries in-theater.
1.3.5. Air Force Security Assistance Center (AFSAC) will:
1.3.5.1. Route FMS country requests for either price/availability data and/or letter of offer and
acceptance data to the authorized source.
1.3.5.2. Ensure accurate “ship to” information is provided to FMS countries for items pre-
approved in-theater repair.
1.3.5.3. Provide funding authorization to in-theater repair sources for approved FMS items.
1.3.5.4. Ensure completed FMS repairs are final billed.
AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                 5


                                           Chapter 2
        SELECTION OF REPARABLE ITEMS FOR OVERSEAS DEPOT REPAIR
2.1. AFGLSC will nominate candidate assets (See Previous AFGLSC section 1.3.3.).
2.2. Workload Approval Process (WAP) will be followed as applicable:
2.2.1. WAP for short term workload approval, (reference AFMCI 21-151). These workloads will
normally be less than 24 months duration.
2.2.2. For long term Source of Repair determinations the DSOR process will be used.
Information on the DSOR process resides in the DSOR COP. Refers to AFI 63-101, and AFMCI
21-150 and the DSOR Guide for specific direction.
2.2.3. All workloads must have a completed DSOR with a permanent Source of Repair
determination complete before a workload will be a candidate for overseas depot repair.
2.3. HQ AFMC/A4 responsibilities are:
2.3.1. The applicable program manager will provide the following data, on each candidate item,
to the overseas organic repair facility, as requested for a workload shift:
2.3.1.1. Support equipment
2.3.1.2. Facility requirements
2.3.1.3. Personnel requirements in hours
2.3.1.4. Theater MICAP history for 12 months
2.4. Prototyping. Applicable program manager will provide a reparable asset to the SCP for
prototyping if requested.
6                                                     AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008


                                            Chapter 3
    IMPLEMENTATION AND PLACEMENT OF SELECTED REPAIR REQUIREMENTS
3.1. Policy:
3.1.1. Approval for Implementation. AFI 63-107, Integrated Product Support Planning and
Assessment, requires DSORs for any new, modified or shift in SOR, that involves the potential for
depot-level maintenance by a source outside the United States, to include immediate posturing or
re-posturing of workload to either an organic or contract in-theater depot-level maintenance
facility. Upon approval, the ALC OWLP manager will direct the responsible operating division
to implement the repair process to ensure the approved item is repaired in-theater. As a part of
the DSOR all items will be first offered to all available organic in-theater repair SOR. If the
organic unit is unable to repair the item, or organic depot activation is not feasible, it will be
offered for in-theater contractor repair.
3.1.2. Data Requirements:
3.1.2.1. Applicable program manager will ensure a technical data package is provided to the
overseas facility. All technical data packages must be reviewed and approved by the local
foreign disclosure office prior to release to the overseas contractors. This package will include
the following:
               Applicable Technical Orders
               Drawings (including assembly and electrical).
               Special tool list.
               Work control documents.
               Material Requirements List (MRL).
               Test equipment list.
               Other pertinent data as required by the overseas SOR.
               It is recognized that not all of the above data may be releasable to a contractor.
3.2. Procedures for Workloads Selected for Organic Repair:
3.2.1. New Workloads. Depot maintenance prototyping must be done for all workloads
constituting a new organic repair capability for the in-theater depot maintenance facility. The
managing ALC will prepare a project directive or an AFMC Form 206, Temporary Work
Request, whichever is most appropriate. The in-theater SOR will use depot maintenance
prototyping as an opportunity to establish depot level repair capability.
3.2.2. RIMCS Update. Upon satisfactory completion of the prototype effort, the managing ALC
will be notified, in writing, by the in-theater SOR to take the necessary action to ensure the
Reparable Item Movement Control System (RIMCS) is updated.
3.2.3. Programmed Workloads. Upon declaration of repair capability by the in-theater organic
SOR, the appropriate Production Management Specialist (PMS) will negotiate the workload with
the SOR in accordance with established procedures. Funding will be processed IAW, AFMCI
65-101, Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System- Financial Policy and
Procedures for Organic Depot Maintenance.
AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                      7

3.2.4. Un-programmed Workloads:
3.2.4.1. If miscellaneous in-theater workloads such as stock fund, host-tenant support, inter-
service agreements, maintenance-to-maintenance, etc., cannot be funded through the above
procedure: The requesting agency in the theater will initiate an AF Form 616, Fund Cite
Authorization (FCA), or other appropriate documentation as required to transfer O&M funds
they estimate will cover their repairs for the fiscal year.
3.3. Procedures for Workloads Selected for OWLP Contract Repair:
3.3.1. Preparation of Procurement Package.
3.3.1.1. Preparation of a procurement package shall provide complete instructions for the
Procurement Contracting Officer (PCO) to prepare the solicitation and for the contractor to
perform the required repair/overhaul and reporting/data preparation. The following are special
considerations for Purchase Request (PR) preparations:
3.3.1.1.1. Similar items should be included on the same PR. This should increase the proposed
workload and provide an incentive for the contractor to participate in the program.
3.3.1.1.2. PRs for overseas requirements will be separated from CONUS requirements being
processed for the same time period.
3.3.1.1.3. Each PR will be marked "OVERSEAS WORKLOAD".
3.3.1.1.4. Government furnished material will be identified.
3.3.1.1.5. Transportation factors for OWLP purchase requests will be determined by the
managing ALC.
3.3.1.1.6. Contract quality requirements may state alternative, but equivalent inspection methods.
Publications (AQAPs) in accordance with NATO Standardization Agreement (STANAG) 4108
criteria will be included in the Appendix "A" for NATO workloads only.
3.3.1.1.7. All PRs must have Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO) coordination prior to forwarding to
the contracting office for action.
3.3.2. Solicitations, Proposals and Contracts:
3.3.2.1. Solicitations:
3.3.2.1.1. Exercised to ensure solicitations are tailored to exclude clauses that apply only to
CONUS contractors.
3.3.2.1.2. Solicitations will be provided to all overseas sources included on the PR and the
bidders list available at the contracting activity. Solicitations will be provided to other sources in
response to the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBusOps) Daily Synopsis or other requests.
3.3.2.1.3. The synopsis for all overseas acquisitions will indicate reparable assets generated
overseas, and will include: the proposed price, transportation costs and the dollar value of the
pipeline assets as evaluation factors. The synopsis will also state the contract is restricted to an
overseas theater, or to CONUS sources that certify the work will be accomplished in-theater.
3.3.2.1.4. Contracting Officers (COs) will ensure all overseas solicitations provide adequate time
for receipt, review and response by prospective contractors (normally 45 days for CONUS
initiated Request for Proposals (RFPs) and 30 days for in-theater initiated RFPs).
8                                                      AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008

3.3.2.1.5. Solicitations will be Free on Board (FOB) designated Port of Embarkation (POE). In
those instances where the user activity resides in the Contractor's own country, the FOB point
will be the user activity. Other FOB terms will be coordinated by the transportation office that
supports the procuring with either HQ USAFE/A4 or HQ PACAF/A4, prior to solicitation.
Transportation costs applicable to the movement of Government Furnished Material (GFM)
(reparable and parts) from points of origin to the FOB point and to the final destination (s)
should be evaluated. Additionally, transportation cost data is required and transit time
information may be required to evaluate potential pipeline savings.
3.3.2.1.6. For contractor workloads, the FOB point for GFM will be the contractor's plant or
Aerial Port of Embarkation/Aerial Port of Debarkation (APOE/APOD), whichever is most
advantageous to the government. The overseas commands are responsible for the movement of
GFM to repair facilities, both organic and contract. They will fund for handling and movement
from the Port of Debarkation (POD) to the repair facility. Overseas commands will be provided
the opportunity to coordinate on solicitations that deviate from these transportation provisions. In
all cases, the overseas commands will be provided a copy of solicitations for planning purposes.
3.3.2.1.7. Air Mobility Command (AMC), Military Surface Deployment and Distribution
Command and Military Sealift Command (MSC) ocean transportation may be used.
3.3.2.2. Unsolicited proposals:
3.3.2.2.1. Contractors who are interested in submitting an unsolicited proposal will be referred to
FAR 15.6 as supplemented by AFFARS 5315.6 and AFMCFARS 5315.6 for guidance on
preparation and submission.
3.3.2.2.2. Unsolicited proposals shall be processed in accordance with the AFMC Unsolicited
Guide: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/Attachment/20070220/upguide.doc
3.3.2.2.3. The contractor must also complete and submit the AFMC Form190, Policy Agreement
for Evaluation of Unsolicited Proposal at http://www/e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/afmc190.xfd.
3.3.2.3. Contracts:
3.3.2.3.1. The contracting activity is responsible to ensure contracts comply with federal and
DoD acquisition regulations as well as any applicable host country procurement laws or inter-
national agreements. Applicable MOUs or other forms of international agreements in effect with
foreign countries may waive “Buy National Laws” and may be designed to encourage equal
competition among U.S. and Overseas firms. The MOUs may apply to all DoD and MOU
country defense equipment on a reciprocal basis, unless otherwise prohibited by national law or
executive order.
3.3.2.3.2. Contracting for the OWLP will be accomplished by the 448 SCM/PK Division
supporting the AFGLSC Supply Chain Management Group having Item Management
responsibility. Aircraft PDM and major fixed facility repairs are excluded. Competition will be
limited to qualified sources of repair. Contract awards will be in accordance with the Federal
Acquisition Regulation and applicable Department of Defense regulations, Air Force
Instructions, AFMC Instructions, national laws, and policies. Contract administration will be
assigned to the appropriate agency in accordance with the FAR and supplements; generally, this
will be a Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) unit.
AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                 9

3.3.2.3.3. The use of one year contracts with options is encouraged to provide motivation for the
foreign contractors to perform.
3.3.2.3.4. OWLP contracts placed with CONUS prime contractors with performance overseas
will follow OWLP procedures. AFMCI 21-113, Contract Maintenance Program For Depot
Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG); AFMCI 21-149 (Draft), Contract Depot Maintenance.
3.3.2.4. Contract Administration:
3.3.2.4.1. Overseas workload contracts awarded to a foreign source will normally be assigned to
DCMA for contract administration. The managing ALC must keep DCMA informed as a new
workload develops even though in competitive cases the actual source may not be known.
3.3.2.4.1.1. Post Award Orientation Conference. The DCMA unit that will administer the
contract, in conjunction with the managing ALC, shall conduct the Post Award Orientation
Conference (PAOC). The appropriate DCMA unit can be obtained from http://www.dcma.mil.
3.3.2.4.1.2. Certificate of Conformance. If the contractor's performance is satisfactory, DCMA
may request the PCO or item manager implement use of certificates of conformance. Such
requests must include appropriate justification and rationale.
3.3.2.4.1.3. Prime Contract. The prime contractor is responsible for coordinating all
requirements under the contract including subcontractor responsibilities.
3.3.2.5. Reporting Procedures:
3.3.2.5.1. Solicitation Procedures. The contracting office performing the overseas contracting
support shall provide a monthly pre-award contract status to the ALC OWLP Manager and
DCMA. Further, when a foreign contractor/country is solicited, forward the letter at
Attachment 1 titled "Notification of Contractor Evaluation” to DCMA and HQ AFMC/A4D.
3.3.2.5.2. Contract Reporting. Within 30 days after contract awards, the ALC OWLP manager will
ensure that the following is provided by email to HQ AFMC/A4D, DCMA, HQ USAFE/A4S/ or
HQ PACAF/A4M:
3.3.2.5.2.1. Contractor Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DODAAC), Name, and
Complete Address.
3.3.2.5.2.2. Contract Number/Month and Year Awarded.
3.3.2.5.2.3. NSN/Noun/System or Subsystem Applicable.
3.3.2.5.2.4. Direct Product Standard Hours (DPSH).
3.3.2.5.2.5. Basic Maximum Quantity/Unit Repair Cost.
3.3.2.5.2.6. Option I Maximum Quantity/Unit Repair Cost.
3.3.2.5.2.7. Option II Maximum Quantity/Unit Repair Cost.
3.3.2.5.2.8. Other Options Maximum Quantity/Unit Repair Cost (as applicable).
3.3.2.5.2.9. Total dollar value of basic contract and options.
3.3.2.5.2.10. HQ AFMC/XP needs to be informed.
3.3.2.5.3. Program Reporting. An Overseas Workload Program Annual Report will be submitted
to HQ AFMC/A4. The report will contain as a minimum the following:
10                                                     AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008

3.3.2.5.3.1. Narratives on current programs and new initiatives.
3.3.2.5.3.2. It is imperative that special emphasis be placed on programs which are of high interest
along with a written detailed narrative.
3.3.2.5.3.3. The report will include all overseas contracting (airframe, engines, exchangeables
and other major end items) performed by AFMC.
3.3.2.5.3.4. Pertinent workload data Attachment 2.
AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                11


                                           Chapter 4
               DETERMINING AND MEASURING ANTICIPATED BENEFITS
4.1. Policy:
4.1.1. OWLP Goal. The OWLP goal is to support overseas weapon systems during peace and
war to enhance operational readiness and sustainability of the combat forces. While economic
savings are not primary, but are an integral part of any workload determination process which
results in repair at an in-theater SOR. Increased readiness is generally anticipated through
increased aircraft availability, reduced depot repair cycles, and the increased number of
serviceable assets available to the overseas activities.
4.1.2. Readiness Indicator. Enhanced readiness achieved through reduced costs, increased assets
on hand, reduced depot turn around time, and lower transportation costs will be used to assist the
OWLP managers in the assessment of their programs.
4.1.3. Post Evaluation. For items that have undergone repair overseas, the managing ALC,
together with the SOR and using MAJCOM, will assess whether or not anticipated readiness
improvements actually materialized. The assessment should take place approximately one year
after repair has been completed, but not later than 18 months.
4.2. Analysis Approach.
4.2.1. Assertion: The basic assertion for showing improved readiness due to the overseas repair
of reparable items that generate in-theater is that:
4.2.1.1. The number of MICAP incidents and hours decrease as the number of serviceable assets
available for operational use increases.
4.2.1.2. The sortie producing capability of aircraft increases when the MICAP incidents and hours
decrease.
4.2.1.3. Reduction of backorders.
4.2.2. Basic Procedure: After an item has undergone depot level repair by an overseas depot
facility (organic or contract), the prime Item Manager/Program Manager (IM/PM) will perform
an analysis upon contract renewal to determine whether the item is still a viable candidate.
5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
5.1. Adopted Forms.
AFMC Form 190, Policy Agreement For Evaluation Of Unsolicited Proposals.
AFMC Form 206, Temporary Work Request.
AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA).


                                     ROSS E. MARSHALL, SES
                                     Deputy Director of Logistics
12                                                 AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSORY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, Dec 04.
AFI63-101, Operations of Capabilities Based Acquisition System, Jul 05
AFI63-107, Integrated Product Support Planning and Assessment, Nov 04.
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, Mar 08
AFMCI21-113, Contract Maintenance Program For Depot Maintenance Activity Group
(DMAG), Jun 05.
AFMCI21-133, Depot Maintenance Management for Aircraft Repair, Mar 05.
AFMCI65-101, Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System-Financial Policy and
Procedures for Organic Depot Maintenance, Mar 06.
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFGLSC—Air Force Global Logistics Support Center
AFRICOM—Africa Command
AFSAC—Air Force Security Assistance Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
APOE/APOD—Aerial Port of Embarkation/Aerial Port of Debarkation
CENTCOM—Central Command
COs—Contracting Officers
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DMAG—Depot Maintenance Activity Group
DoD—Department of Defense
DODAAC—Department of Defense Activity Address Code
DPSH—Direct Product Standard Hours
DSOR—Depot Source of Repair
EUCOM—Europe Command
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FOB—Free On Board
GFM—Government Furnished Material
MSC—Military Sealift Command
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008                     13

NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OWLP—Overseas Workload Program
PA—Program Authority
PACOM—Pacific Command
PAOC—Post Award Orientation Conference
PCO—Procurement Contracting Officer
POD—Port of Deparkation
POE—Port of Embarkation
PR—Purchase Request
RIMCS—Recoverable Item Movement Control System
SCP—Support Center Pacific
STANAG—Standardization Agreement
14                                                   AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008


                                       Attachment 2
      SAMPLE LETTER, NOTIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR EVALUATION
MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFMC/A4D
FROM: (Procuring Agency)
SUBJECT: Notification of Contractor Evaluation
1. The following information is provided for your information on our recent evaluation.
Contractor Name
Contractor Location (Address (if known), City, Country)
Workload Description
Type of Work: (Repair, PDM, New Production, etc.)
AF funding (i.e., O&M) or.FMS: (If FMS List Country of Destination)
Approximate Contract Value: (US Dollars)
Anticipated Period of Performance: (Contract Life)
Weapon System/Component Name: (Aircraft/Part)
Number of Components/Year: (Projected Number/Year)
Number of Contractor Man-hours/Component: (Man-hours) (For multiple components complete)
(1) - (7) for each component on separate sheet and attach.
1. The HQ AFMC Point of Contact is: (Name) (Address) (Telephone Number) (Email Address)
2. The (Procuring Agency) Points of Contact are:
System/Item Manager: (Name)
(Address)
(Telephone Number)
(Email Address) Contracting Office: (Name)
(Address)
(Telephone Number) (Email Address)
cc:
DCMA
AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                 15


                                          Attachment 3
            INSTRUCTIONS FOR IN-THEATER WORKLOAD REPORTING
MDS: This is the type weapon system involved. It can be an aircraft, engine, vehicle, missile,
etc. Examples are C-5, F/A-22, R-5, AIM-9L. Designator should be to the lowest indicators
possible.
Category: This is the type work involved. Examples are aircraft, engine, exchangeables, OMEI,
missiles, etc. If there is doubt about exactly what the category is, use other.
Description: This is a brief description of the work. Examples are HUD, PDM, Fire Control
MODS, Landing Gear, etc.
Theater: Self-explanatory.
Country: This is the country where the contractor is located, the country where an anticipated
contract is to be awarded or blank if unknown. Include city if known.
Status: This is the current status of the contract. Examples are awarded, pending award,
anticipated, being completed, etc.
Contract Number: Self-explanatory.
Award Date: This is the date of contract award or the anticipated award date. Leave blank if
unknown.
Length of Contract: This is the number of months or years the contract was awarded for. Also
include any extensions to the contract. Examples are 18 months, three years, five years with 120
days extension, etc.
GFM: Government Furnished Material. Identify GFM if part of contract. If included in the
contract but cannot be broken out, so state.
FYxx-Dollar: This is the anticipated payment to the contractor for each year the contract is in
force. DPAH: Depot Actual Hours.
Quantity: This is the number of items to be completed by the contractor for
each year.
Report Due Date: Submit annually to HQ AFMC/A4DC NLT 1 Oct.
16                                             AFMCI21-201 25 NOVEMBER 2008


                                   Attachment 4
                       OVERSEAS WORKLOAD PROGRAM
Table A4.1. Overseas Workload Program
MDS: CATEGORY:
DESCRIPTION: THE                    ATER:
COUNTRY: C                       ONTRACTOR:
STATUS: CONR                            ACTOR NUMBER:
AWARD DATE:                     LENGTH OF CONTRACT:
GFM:
FY08 - DOLLAR                   FY11 - DOLLAR
       DPAH                             DPAH
       QTY                              QTY
FY09 - DOLLAR                   FY12 - DOLLAR
       DPAH                             DPAH
       QTY                              QTY
FY10 - DOLLAR                   FY14 - DOLLAR
       DPAH                             DPAH
       QTY                              QTY
