BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 36-802

                                                                                 25 APRIL 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                         SUPERIOR QUALIFICATIONS AND
                                                            SPECIAL NEEDS PAY-SETTING
                                                                           AUTHORITY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFMC/A1KK                                                         Certified by: AFMC/A1K
                                                                              (Mr. Eric Dilworth)
                                                                                         Pages: 5


This instruction expands upon criteria in AFI 36-802, Pay Setting, and directs a Command
coordination and approval process for requests related to the Superior Qualifications and Special
Needs Pay-Setting Authority (SQA). This instruction establishes an annual reporting
requirement on requests and approvals of SQAs and the associated cost to the command for use
of this authority. This instruction is effective upon publication. This instruction applies to all
AFMC units. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units.
This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command to AFMC/A1KK, 4375 Chidlaw Road, Room N208,
Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5006. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information System (AFRIMS), Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Purpose. This instruction establishes a graduated review, coordination, and approval process
for the use of the Superior Qualifications and Special Needs Pay-Setting Authority (SQA). In
addition, the instruction establishes an annual reporting requirement related to both the approval
of requests to use the authority and the resulting cost to the command. The SQA has proven to
be an effective hiring tool in AFMC. SQA provides management the flexibility to attract highly
qualified candidates by allowing compensation above the minimum rate/step of the appropriate
 2                                                              AFMCI36-802 25 APRIL 2012


General Schedule (GS) grade. Use of this authority is based upon the candidate’s superior
qualifications and/or related to a special need of the agency for the candidate’s services.
2. Policy. Officials delegated approval authority for SQA must ensure each request meets the
requirements outlined in AFI 36-802 for use of the authority, and contains the required
documentation to support the request. In addition to the Chain of Air Force Approval
Authorities in AFI 36-802, Table A4.1, this instruction requires coordination through the
appropriate organizational and Center Senior Functional (CSF) management chain prior to
approval of any SQA request.
     2.1. SQA approval authority is inherent in the Title 5 appointing authority at the specific
     Center/Installation. Responsibility for advising management on the use of this authority and
     on the documentation requirements rests with the activity servicing staffing function.
     2.2. Organization senior functional (OSF) and/or center senior functional (CSF) or designee
     coordination and recommendation to approve/disapprove is required on all SQA request
     packages before any action may be taken by the approval authority.
     2.3. SQA request packages, with SQA Request Form (attached), will be coordinated through
     the organizational chain of command and include review and coordination by the appropriate
     OSF and CSF or designee, as applicable, prior to submission to the approval authority. The
     candidate’s resume and last pay stub, and all other substantiating documentation will be
     attached to the SQA Request Form.
     2.4. For positions at the HQ AFMC level, packages will be coordinated through the
     directorate/functional chain of command, followed by coordination of the director/deputy.
     Requests will then be flowed to the HQ AFMC/CS Civilian Employment Program (CEP)
     manager, who will present the request to the HQ Civilian Employment Cost Management
     Committee (CECMC) for coordination prior to submission to the approval authority. In
     addition, the HQ CECMC may vector the request through the AFMC Top 3 for their
     coordination prior to submission to the approval authority.
3. Reporting Requirements.
     3.1. A report on the use and cost of SQA will be provided to AFMC/CA annually. The
     report will be developed through the compilation of information provided by each
     Center/HQ, in conjunction with system-generated data captured through use of the Command
     Human Resources Intelligence System (CHRIS).
     3.2. The approval authority is responsible for providing annual SQA report information to
     HQ AFMC/A1KK. Data covering the previous fiscal year will be provided to HQ
     AFMC/A1KK NLT 31 Oct.
     3.3. The approval authority will track and report the total number of SQA approvals overall,
     and by function or directorate, e.g., FM, EN, PK, PM, and DP.
     3.4. The data reflecting the estimated cost to the command incurred by approval of SQAs
     will be reported by HQ AFMC/A1KK, using the CHRIS. Cost estimates will be defined by
     determining the difference between the typical step 1 salary rate for the employee’s assigned
     GS grade, and the higher step approved at the time of appointment. Estimated costs will be
     reported by Center, the HQs, and Command total.
AFMCI36-802 25 APRIL 2012                                                                     3


  3.5. The information captured in the annual report will be used to identify trends in requests
  for SQA, to verify the cost to the command for approved requests, and to provide an
  indicator of when further analysis of the use of the authority may be required. The full
  annual report will be provided to HQ AFMC/CA.




                                           JOHN W. STEENBOCK, SES
                                           Director, Manpower, Personnel and Services
 4                                                              AFMCI36-802 25 APRIL 2012


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting, 1 September 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
AFMC135, SQA Request

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC— −Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS— −Air Force Records Information Management System
CECMC— − Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee
CEP— − Civilian Employment Program
CHRIS— −Command Human Resources Intelligence System
CSF— −Center Senior Functional
DP— − Personnel
EN— − Engineering & Technical Management
FM— − Financial Management
GS— −General Schedule
HQ CECMC— −Headquarters Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee
OSF— −Organizational Senior Functional
PK— − Contracting
PM— −Program Management
RDS— −Records Disposition Schedule
SQA— − Superior Qualifications and Special Needs Pay-setting Authority

Terms
Civilian Employment Cost Management− A committee established to discuss and resolve
resource management issues pertaining to civilian end strength/employment issues, civilian
employment plan projections/concerns, civilian funding, overhire, temporary, part—time,
authorizations/expenditures, and work year utilization.
Civilian Employment Plan−—a tool for gauging program effectiveness and monitoring work
year execution as compared to work year plans.
Command Human Resources Intelligence System—A system that allows authenticated users
access to powerful persons and positions reporting, analysis, and distribution tools over the web.
AFMCI36-802 25 APRIL 2012                                                                 5


Center Senior Functional−—The individual responsible for overseeing/managing functional
processes/workforce across the Center.
Organizational Senior Functional−The senior functionals within subordinate units and
non—units.
Superior Qualifications and Special Needs Pay—setting Authority−An agency authority in
5 U.S.C. 5333 to set the payable rate of basic pay for an employee above the minimum rate of
the highest applicable rate range for the employee's position of record.
