BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          AFMC MISSION DIRECTIVE 402
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                        3 DECEMBER 2004
                                                                   Certified Current 14 November 2011


                                                          HQ AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                           FIELD OPERATING AGENCIES (FOA)



NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/XPMR                                                       Certified by: HQ AFMC/XPM
       (Deanna Wheeler)                                                      (Col Daniel D. Badger, Jr)
Supersedes AFMCMD 402, 28 April 2000                                                          Pages: 4
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This mission directive defines the mission of HQ AFMC FOAs. It does not apply to the Air National
Guard or the US Air Force Reserve. This directive implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-1, Mission
Directives.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision updates the previous edition and changes the title of AFMC Civil Engineer Squadron
(AFMC CES) to AFMC Civil Engineer Office (AFMC CEO). Revision also deletes the AFMC Man-
power and Innovation Office (AFMC MIO) and AFMC Studies and Analyses Office (AFMC SAO). This
version also realigns selected FOAs in accordance with recent HQ AFMC restructure actions.


1. Mission:
   1.1. United States Air Force Band of Flight (USAFBF). Reports to HQ AFMC/PA. Provide musical
   support for military parades and ceremonies, official protocol functions, troop morale and retention
   events, recruiting activities, and Air Force (AF) and Department of Defense (DoD) community rela-
   tions programs that project the AF image and promote national heritage. Provide advice, coordination,
   and policy guidance to the AFMC Commander and staff regarding activities, scheduling, and usage of
   bands within the Command.
   1.2. AFMC Civil Engineer Office (AFMC CEO). Reports to HQ AFMC/MSE. Provide AFMC design
   and construction execution direction for military construction (MILCON) to Corps of Engineers and
   Navy, nonappropriated funds construction, military family housing construction, operations and
   maintenance construction, and foreign military sales construction. Provide execution and bud-
   get-cycle support of AFMC’s environmental compliance, conservation, and pollution prevention and
   restoration programs. Integrate execution of AFMC’s pollution prevention weapon system/facility
   program with focus on accommodating environmental regulatory requirements. Provide the execution
   direction for the AFMC housing privatization program and competitive sourcing programs. Provide
   program and project management with base and Air Staff.
2                                                                 AFMCMD402 3 DECEMBER 2004


    1.3. AFMC Computer Systems Office (AFMC CSO). Reports to HQ AFMC/MSC. Provide Commu-
    nications-Computer Systems (C-CS) technical services in support of requirements definitions and
    problem assessment for AFMC customers. With customers, define, assess, resolve problems and sup-
    port communication and information system needs. Expertise provided includes all communications
    (voice, data and video), computer systems (including micros), communications and computer secu-
    rity, frequency management, maintenance, multimedia (video teleconferencing), graphics, photo,
    video, Command software standards, configuration control, and ensuring integration and interopera-
    bility. Maintain Command’s currency in computer and information management technology.
    1.4. AFMC Law Office (AFMCLO). Reports to HQ AFMC/JA. Responsible for acquisition legal
    advice to all acquisition activities located at Wright-Patterson AFB, including PEO programs. Consult
    with SAF/GC in systems acquisition legal issues. Represent the AF in contract litigation before the
    Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA). Provide AF contracting officers and base legal
    offices with guidance on contract disputes and assist SAF/GC and the Department of Justice (DOJ)
    with cases appealed from the ASBCA to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Provide advice
    on procurement integrity, contract fraud and civil remedies, and standards of conduct. Maintain the
    AF patent portfolio, administers the AF patent deposit account, determines patentability of AF inven-
    tions, prosecutes patent applications, administers licensing of AF patented inventions, and represents
    the AF in patent infringement cases. Provide legal counsel to AFMC in all aspects of environmental
    law, including remediation of realty, regulatory and statutory compliance, pollution prevention and
    release reporting, environmental aspects of government contracting and real estate transfers/AF plant
    divestitures.
    1.5. AFMC Logistics Support Office (AFMC LSO). Reports to HQ AFMC/LG. Represent the AF in
    the development of AF and DoD policies and processes that are disseminated in AF, DoD, and joint
    service publications. Operate the AF Shipper Service Liaison Office Program and the AF Manage-
    ment and Equipment Evaluation Program. Manage assigned programs and provide the environment
    for continual improvements of products, services and processes associated with the AF materials han-
    dling, engineering, packaging, and automatic identification technology, traffic management policy
    and movement control, and logistics systems implementation. Provide AF and DoD corporate plan-
    ning, policy, resource allocation and advocacy to best meet mission requirements.
    1.6. AFMC Operations Office (AFMC OPSO). Reports to HQ AFMC/DO. Direct AFMC contin-
    gency planning to meet the warfighters’ needs across the full spectrum of military contingencies. This
    includes: support to the Combatant Commander with personnel and equipment in the form of deploy-
    able UTCs; support to the joint deployment community through deliberate, crisis, and exercise plan-
    ning and execution; direct command participation in the Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF);
    command and control (C2) system development and sustainment; and AFMC Operations Center, Cri-
    sis Action Team and Battle Staff planning and execution. Develop AFMC policy and strategy on
    counterproliferation of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive (CBRNE) capabili-
    ties. Manage all aspects of the AFMC arms control process, including policy formulation, implemen-
    tation, compliance, education/training and overall budgeting.
    1.7. AFMC Office of Aerospace Studies (AFMC OAS). Reports to HQ AFMC/XR. Designated the
    AF Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) Center of Expertise. Provide procedural and analytical expertise to
    MAJCOMs and Air Staff in planning, executing, and reporting analyses for acquisition of major
    weapon systems. Coordinate with Army and Navy on joint acquisition. Report AoA quality assess-
    ments directly to AF Requirements Operational Capability Council (AFROCC) and MAJCOMs.
AFMCMD402 3 DECEMBER 2004                                                                                3


   1.8. Joint Depot Maintenance Analysis Group Office (JDMAG). Reports to HQ AFMC/LG. Provide
   staff support to the Joint Group on Depot Maintenance (JG-DM) for the execution of the JG-DM stra-
   tegic plans and joint depot maintenance. The current significant missions are: (1) strategic plan execu-
   tion, (2) depot maintenance interservicing studies and analyses, (3) depot maintenance business
   planning and evaluation, (4) depot maintenance technology information and exchange, (5) depot
   maintenance military construction (MILCON) proposal review, and (6) depot maintenance perfor-
   mance metrics developing and tracking.

2. Command. The units described in this document are FOAs of Headquarters AFMC and report to
headquarters’ directorates as reflected herein and on the attached organization chart.

3. Organization Structure. The organization structures of the FOAs are according to the Air Force
Objective Blueprint, AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, and HQ AFMC/HQ USAF approved variances
to the structures.
   3.1. Organization Changes. Requests to change the organizational structures of the FOAs must be
   made according to AFI 38-101 and HQ AFMC/XP/XPM policy guidance. Requests must be approved
   by the appropriate HQ AFMC directorate and submitted, with justification, proposed mission state-
   ments and organization charts, to HQ AFMC/XP or XPM for staffing and approval.



                                               DENNIS F. SAGER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Deputy Director of Plans and Programs
4                                                     AFMCMD402 3 DECEMBER 2004


                                       Attachment 1

                                  ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

Figure A1.1. Organization Chart
